ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The Kemira Annual Report 2016 consists of four modules. By clicking the titles below, you can go directly into each module with its own table of contents. TABLE OF Contents BUSINESS OVERVIEW KEMIRA TODAY 2 CEO STATEMENT 4 PERFORMANCE 2016 8 BUSINESS MODEL 9 OUR STRATEGY FOR PROFITABLE GROWTH Three core segments with strong market positions 10 Profitable growth through clear defined actions 12 People 17 Innovating together with customers 18 Our global network 19 SEGMENTS Pulp & Paper 20 Oil & Mining 24 Municipal & Industrial 28 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 32 GRI DISCLOSURES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All forward-looking statements in this report are based on the management’s current expectations and beliefs about future events, and actual results may differ materially from the expectations and beliefs such statements contain. Kemira – KEY FIGURES 2016 →→ Revenue: EUR 2.4 billion (2.4 billion in 2015) →→ Operative EBITDA: EUR 302.5 million (287.3 million) →→ Operative EBITDA margin: 12.8% (12.1%) →→ Earnings per share: EUR 0.60 (0.47) →→ Employees 4,818 (4,685) →→ Manufacturing network of 63 (64) sites, products sold in more than 100 countries →→ Financial targets on midto long-term: above-the-market revenue growth, operative EBITDA margin 14–16%, gearing below 60% →→ Headquartered in Helsinki, Finland and listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Kemira TODAY Kemira is a global chemicals company serving customers in water intensive industries. We THE AMERICAS 38% EUR 895 million provide expertise, application knowhow and chemicals that improve our 1,558 customers‘ product quality, process and resource efficiency. Our focus is on pulp & paper, oil & gas, mining and water treatment. R&D Regional HQ VISION Atlanta, Atlanta, USA The first choice in chemistry for water intensive USA industries VALUES → We are dedicated to customer success → We drive performance and innovation → We care for people and the environment → We succeed together 2 BUSINESS SEGMENTS: PULP & PAPER MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL A leading global bleaching, process and funcMarket leader in raw and waste water treatment tional chemical supplier, #1–2 in all regions. chemicals, #1 in Europe and North America. OIL & MINING A growing chemical supplier to the oil & gas and mining industries, #2 in global polyacrylamide polymers. Kemira headquarters Employees Helsinki, Finland R&D and technology centers R&D Espoo, Finland ASIA PACIFIC 10% EUR 228 million 651 Regional HQ Shanghai, China R&D Shanghai, China EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 52% EUR 1.239 million 2,609 3 2016 CONTINUED IMPROVEMENT IN profitability In 2016, we continued to improve our profitability. We have systematically followed our strategic plan, and we are on our way towards our mid-to-long-term financial targets. Our goal is to deliver revenue growth above-the-market with improving profitability. THE YEAR 2016 IN BRIEF The year 2016 showed that our action plan is delivering continued improvement in profitability despite adverse developments in oil and gas markets. We progressed a step forward towards our profitability target and achieved operative EBITDA margin of 12.8% (12.1%). Organic revenue growth remained challenging, mainly due to the deflationary pricing environment, declines in oil and gas markets, and tightening competition in the pulp and paper chemicals market. Our fullyear revenue amounted to EUR 2.4 billion with organic growth of -2%, mainly due to drop in oil and gas markets. In September 2016, we updated our midto long-term financial targets. Kemira aims for Jari Rosendal I President and CEO above-the-market revenue growth with operative 4 CEO STATEMENT EBITDA margin of 14–16%. The gearing target is maintained at below 60%. OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS WE HAVE BEEN OUR STRATEGY FOR PROFITABLE GROWTH FOCUSING ON THE Kemira’s vision is to be the first choice in chemisFOLLOWING FOUR try for water intensive industries. This means we AREAS: DRIVING must provide first class expertise, application know-how and chemicals that improve our cusGROWTH, ACQUISITIONS, tomers’ product quality as well as their process COST DISCIPLINE, AND and resource efficiency. It also means that we EFFICIENCY. must operate sustainably, efficiently and safely, while employing the best people with the right service attitude and a passion for our business. Over the past three years we have been focusing on the following four areas: driving growth, acquisitions, cost discipline, and efficiency. In 211 million (2015: EUR 305 million), and these March 2016, we announced an investment of investments have all been executed on schedule approximately EUR 50-60 million in the expansion and on budget. In spring 2016, we successfully of our production capacity in Joutseno, Finland, started up our new sodium chlorate plant in aiming to capture growth opportunities in the Ortigueira, Brazil, strengthening our capability to pulp and paper industry. We have also expanded meet growing demand for pulping chemicals in our production in San Giorgio, Italy, and in Bradthe South American market. ford, UK. Our capital expenditure in 2016 was EUR 5 2016 The integration of the AkzoNobel paper chemiRESPONSIBILITY cals business, acquired in May 2015, has proTHROUGHOUT THE VALUE CHAIN gressed better than expected, so we raised the Our corporate responsibility work is guided by the related cost synergy target from EUR 15 million to increasing expectations of our customers and EUR 20 million in September. The synergy capture other stakeholders, as well as by our own strategy will be at full run-rate by the end of 2017. and Code of Conduct, and internationally defined During 2016 we launched a new operational principles. Our work particularly focuses on excellence program known as BOOST, to improve responsible business practices, sustainable efficiency and customer experience. We expect products and solutions, responsible manufacturthis program to bring annual savings run-rate of ing, responsibility in our supply chain, and EUR 20-30 million within 2-3 years. A new partresponsibility towards our employees, and local nership with Odyssey, who will start to operate communities wherever we operate. Kemira’s external road transportation activities in Thanks to our long-term efforts to enhance the EMEA region and North America in 2017, will health and safety culture throughout Kemira, we make a major contribution to the BOOST prohave been able to significantly improve our safety gram’s benefits. performance. The frequency of reported injuries Our strategy execution is on track, and we will per million hours worked by our employees and continue to move forward with regard to delivercontractors decreased to 3.4, compared to 7.2 in ing our mid-to-long-term financial targets. We 2015. We will continue to invest a lot of time and remain determined to drive profitable growth effort to achieve further improvements in workthrough initiatives including Total Chemistry place safety. Management (TCM) contracts and additional We create sustainable value by innovating and bleaching chemical capacity in the Pulp & Paper improving product performance, by reducing the segment; Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery (CEOR) environmental footprint of our value chain, and by and oil sands in Oil & Mining; and measures to improving safety throughout product life cycles. increase revenue in Municipal & Industrial includWe launched 14 new products in 2016 (2015: 3) ing Advanced Water Treatment (AWT) applications and the share of innovation products in total and geographical expansion in selected regions. sales increased to 9% by revenue (2015: 8%). Our 6 CEO STATEMENT innovation sales target is 10% and we will continue our efforts to reach it. Our main environmental impact is the carbon WE PROGRESSED WELL dioxide emissions from our manufacturing, which TOWARDS OUR we are striving to reduce through energy efficiency improvements and the sourcing of more PROFITABILITY TARGET low-carbon energy. In 2016, we were able to AND REACHED source a higher share of low-carbon energy and OPERATIVE EBITDA we continued to invest in more energy efficient equipment and production lines through our MARGIN OF 12.8% IN E3plus energy efficiency program. The Kemira 2016. Carbon Index improved to 86, and we are on progress to reach our target of reducing the Kemira Carbon Index by 20 percentage points by the end of 2020, compared to the baseline year the three years I have worked as Kemira’s CEO, I 2012 (index value = 100). have clearly seen that we are a global technology house with excellent in-house chemistry experTHE RIGHT MIX tise and a profound understanding of different Today, we are number one globally in bleaching, industrial processes. Creating the right mix of process and functional chemicals for the pulp these elements will make us the first choice for and paper industry – and also the market leader our customers. in waste water treatment chemicals in Europe and North America. Our products are distributed Jari Rosendal to over 100 countries globally, and we have 4,818 President & CEO employees in approximately 40 countries. During 7 2016 PERFORMANCE 2016 Responsibility towards employees Financial performance Occupational health and safety target: Revenue (EUR billion) Operative EBITDA (%) Achieve zero injuries Target: above market growth Target: 14-16% (TRIF 2.0 by 2020) 8.5 2.4 2.4 12.8% Total Recordable Injury 7.1 7.2 11.8% 12.1% 2.1 Frequency (TRIF), per 5.8 million hours, Kemira + 3.4 contractor, 1 year rolling average. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Engagement target: 84% 85% 70% 75% Employee engagement 67% 58% index at or above the Sustainable products and solutions external industry norm, participation rate 75% or above. Innovation sales target: 2011 2013 2015 10% of total ■ Employee engagement index, % (external norm 2015: 68%) revenue by the end ■ Participation rate, % of total employees of 2017 10% Leadership development target : 9% 1500 8% 8% Two (2) leadership development 7% activities per people manager 5% position during 2016–2020 494 2015 2020 12 13 14 15 16 Target 2017 Responsibility in our supply chain Responsible manufacturing 25 Target: 5 suppliers audited every Climate 100 year during 2016-2020, average. change target: 88 91 92 86 80 Kemira Carbon Index ≤ 80 by 4 the end of 2016 2020 2020 12 13 14 15 16 20 8 Business model Equity: EUR 1,183 million INPUTS Interest-bearing liabilities: EUR 807 million 4,818 professionals worldwide Cash: EUR 173 million 250 R&D experts in 3 centers, Business units in 40 countries, over 1,200 patents 63 manufacturing sites Key relationships: customers, suppliers, Total materials purchased: distributors & agents, industrial partners for →→ 3.5 million tons, 27% recycled secondary raw materials →→ Total energy purchased (GWh) 4,426 Differentiation: Responsibility for →→ Unique strategy based on expertise, application BUSINESS ACTIVITIES employees →→ Workplace safety knowhow and chemicals →→ Employee engagement for customers in water→→ Leadership development intensive industries. Product stewardship Responsible supply chain →→ Ensuring safety of our products →→ Sustainability in sourcing and supply chain management Responsible business practices Responsible manufacturing →→ Compliance to Kemira Code of Conduct →→ Lowering costs & environmental impacts of our operations Sustainable products and OUTPUTS solutions, market position Services →→ Polyacrylamide polymers #2 →→ Application support →→ Coagulants #1 →→ Process control & monitoring →→ Sizing #1 →→ Total Chemistry Management →→ Chlorate & peroxides #2 Emissions and waste Income received from customers →→ Scope1 + Scope2 (CO2 eq. tonnes) = 931,000 →→ EUR 2.4 billion →→ Total waste disposal 82,300 tonnes Customers OUTCOMES Society →→ Product quality or product yield →→ Purified water, suitable for reuse optimization →→ Sustainable use of biobased materials: →→ Process and energy recycled fibers efficiency →→ Less water and energy used in →→ Water quality and regulatory industrial processes compliance →→ More efficient extraction and use of →→ Customer Net Promoter Score: 28 Shareholders & lenders non-renewable resources: oil, minerals (industry average 26) →→ EUR 114 million paid in dividends* and water →→ Income taxes paid: EUR 23 million* *on cash basis including interest expenses* 9 2016 OUR STRATEGY FOR profitable growth THREE CORE SEGMENTS WITH STRONG MARKET POSITIONS Our focus will continue to be on promoting and supporting profitable growth in three business segments. We gain synergies through similar production technologies and shared manufacturing sites. Polymers are the largest product group used throughout these segments. 10 PULP & PAPER OIL & MINING MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL 62 % of group revenue 13 of group revenue % 25 of group revenue % Market leader Growing Leading global in water treatment chemical supplier to pulp and paper chemicals in oil, gas and mining chemical supplier Europe and North industries America Operative 13.4 Operative 5.9 Operative 14.9 EBITDA % EBITDA % EBITDA % Market Market Market Position #1 Position #2* Position #1 *in polyacrylamide polymers In Pulp & Paper, we have unique expertise in industry. We have a leading market position in applying chemicals and in helping pulp and paper friction reducers used in fracking of shale oil and producers to innovate and constantly improve gas. In addition, oil sands and Chemical Enhanced their operational efficiency and environmental Oil Recovery (CEOR), are attractive growth prosimpacts. Kemira is the only company in the pects for the long-term. industry with a major global presence in pulp, In Municipal & Industrial, we enable our packaging and paper chemicals. Thanks to an customers to improve their water treatment increased focus on this business combined with efficiency by providing expertise and chemicals strategic investments and selective acquisitions, for the management of raw and waste water. In we have been able to grow and become the global this segment we have a market share of around market leader. 30% in Europe and North America, but we have In Oil & Mining, we provide a unique combinaalso gained ground in selected growth markets tion of innovative knowhow on chemicals and such as Singapore and Shanghai. In our focus applications that can improve process efficiency regions, we are the leading supplier for raw and and yields in oil, gas and metals recovery. Kemira waste water treatment chemicals. is the second largest producer of polyacrylamide (PAM) polymers globally. Within the extensive global oil and gas industry we have selected a few attractive niches such as the shale fracking 11 2016 PROFITABLE GROWTH THROUGH clear, defined actions ACHIEVEMENTS & ONGOING PROJECTS 11.3 % 12.8 % Start-up of Ortigueira (BR) sodium chlorate site and announcement Transportation agreement with Odyssey 2013 operative EBITDA 2016 operative EBITDA of Joutseno (FI) expansion Q4/16 Acquisition of Soto Acquisition of BASF Industries (US) Q3/16 AKD emulsions Chevron CEOR R&D Q2/16 Opening agreement of Nanjing Q1/16 (CN) multiOpening of purpose Tarragona (ES) Q4/15 Expansion of Bradford (UK) site coagulant site Q3/15 Expansion of San Giorgio (IT) Pulp chemicals Acquisition to Montes del Q2/15 Closure of Ottawa (CA) of Polymer Plata (UY) Q1/15 Services (US) Botlek (NL) modernization Q4/14 AkzoNobel´s Closure of BOOST operational paper Q3/14 Soave (IT) excellence program chemicals launch Q2/14 acquisition Decision to close Zaramillo (ES) Q1/14 Expansion of dry Expansion of pulp and emulsion chemicals, Oulu (FI) Opening / expansion of site polyacrylamide Acquisition Start-up of EMEA service (US) Closure of Longview (US) New major contract center Operational efficiencies Cairn CEOR agreement Closure of site 12 MIDTO LONG-TERM TARGETS 2014 2015 2016 FINANCIAL TARGETS (midto long-term) 2.1 2.4 2.4 EUR EUR EUR Above-theRevenue billion billion billion market growth 12.8% Operative EBITDA margin 11.8% 12.1% 14-16% Gearing 42% 54% 54% Below 60% Over the last three years Kemira has initiated and AkzoNobel employees and products as a part of executed multiple actions to deliver profitable Kemira’s business today, giving us an even growth. These actions are a key factor behind stronger market leadership position. revenue growth from around EUR 2.2 billion in 2013 to around EUR 2.4 billion in 2016, as well as SELECTIVE INVESTMENTS TO SUPPORT profitability improvements from 11.3% in 2013 to FUTURE GROWTH 12.8% in 2016, despite the adverse developments Kemira is currently in an investment phase, and in the oil and gas markets. The single largest our capital expenditure in 2016 amounted to EUR action has been the acquisition of AkzoNobel 211 million (Capital expenditure including acquipaper chemicals business, which has brought us sitions, 2015: EUR 305 million, 2014: EUR 145 additional annual revenue of around EUR 200 million). Several site expansions and openings million and some 350 experts around the world. have taken place during the last three years, of This acquisition strengthened our market position which the most recent is a new sodium chlorate in all regions, especially in the APAC region where site in Ortigueira, Brazil. The site opened in March we are now the #1 chemicals provider to paper, 2016, exclusively serving Klabin, Brazil’s largest board and tissue mills. The acquisition is also pulp producer. Other examples of the investment expected to bring around EUR 20 million in synerphase include expansions in Bradford, UK, and gies on top of the EUR 19 million EBITDA (pro San Giorgio, Italy, as well as the upcoming new forma 2015) contribution from the existing busibleaching chemical production line in Joutseno, ness. We are very satisfied with the way integraFinland. tion has proceeded, and proud to have new 13 2016 In addition, we have optimized our Group-wide DRIVERS FOR PROFITABLE GROWTH production footprint through prudent cost conIn Pulp and Paper, the cornerstone of revenue and trol. This is essential, since we have to constantly profitability improvement is continuous exceltake care of our efficiency to remain competitive. lence in all daily operations. Growth in pulp At the end of 2016, we had 63 production sites chemicals is driven by our investments in bleach(compared to 64 in 2015) in 24 different countries. ing chemical capacity to meet growing demand in Kemira is well on its way towards its midto longSouth America and Northern Europe. The newly term financial targets. However, the world is unprebuilt capacity in Brazil is now running at full dictable. Economic cycles affect the supply and speed, and we are in the process of building a cost of certain important raw materials. Currency new sodium chlorate line in Joutseno, Finland, to rates have also been fluctuating substantially, and serve primarily the Nordic market. The new line is geopolitical issues such as Brexit have recently expected to come into operation in the fourth arisen. The issues may not impact Kemira directly, quarter of 2017. In paper chemicals, our newly but they certainly may have consequences for some launched Total Chemistry Management (TCM) of our customers and for entire economies, and concept has brought us multiple deals, especially therefore they may have indirect impacts on Kemira. in the APAC region, thanks to our one-stop-shop ALL SEGMENTS AIMING FOR PROFITABLE GROWTH MIDTO LONG-TERM TARGETS Pulp Oil & Municipal & Paper Mining & Industrial 62% of Group revenue 13% of Group revenue 25% of Group revenue Growth Growth Growth 2 X market growth Double-digit growth-% Steady growth of 2-4% over-the-cycle Profitability Profitability Profitability In line with the Group target Over-the-cycle profitability in Slightly below the Group target line or above the Group target 14 approach. On the profitability side, synergies from conditions in a certain oilfield. This kind of knowthe AkzoNobel´s paper chemicals acquisition will how-based and tailored application requirement continue to ramp up and contribute towards our is very suitable for Kemira, as we have decades of profitability target. experience in polymer applications. We have also In Oil and Mining, the shale oil and gas market entered oil sands, which is a growth prospect in seems to have bottomed in summer 2016. The rig Canada, as oil producers are required by law to count in the US is an indirect indicator of activity conduct appropriate tailings treatment. We are in shale fields, and the number of rigs has risen also focusing on our mining business as well as by 63% from the bottom in spring 2016 to 658 our process industry portfolio in selected indusrigs, though the figure is still far below the 1,800 tries. level where it was on average during 2014. We are In Municipal and Industrial, we aim to concontinuing our efforts for entering Chemical tinue with our successful business in existing Enhanced Oil Recovery (CEOR). CEOR is an area markets, with wider offerings to the market. We where it typically takes 12-24 months to develop are additionally looking for geographic expansion, and tailor the right product to fulfill all customer’s selectively going into new areas. Some of our needs, relating to factors including specific products, such as anti-scalants, are not yet PROFITABLE GROWTH DRIVERS Group wide drivers →→ BOOST program – operational excellence →→ Selective acquisitions Pulp Oil & Municipal & Paper Mining & Industrial →→ Winning Formula – Excel in →→ CEOR tailored polymers for →→ Geographic expansion basic game harsh conditions in Chemical →→ Expansion in product →→ Bleaching chemical capacity Enhanced Oil Recovery offering additions →→ Oil sands – tailings treatment →→ Advanced Water →→ New Total Chemistry →→ Recovery of shale market Treatment (AWT) Management (TCM) contracts →→ Capture acquisition synergies 15 2016 OUR KEY ACTIONS FOR HIGHER MARGINS AkzoNobel´s New investments Optimization of Recovery of Advanced Water Operative paper chemicals (Brazil and Finland), operations: e.g. shale market, Treatment EBITDA margin business New TCM contracts logistics, sourcing, CEOR & oil 14-16% manufacturing sands 14-16% 12.8% BOOSTSynergies Pulp & Oil & Municipal & 11.8% 12.1% from Paper operational Mining Industrial acquisitions exellence 2014 2015 2016 Midto longterm target End of 2016 run-rate Above 50% Below 50% Low Low Low Full run-rate by End of 2017 2018 2-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 3-5 yrs offered to all of our customers. There is an 2020. For profitability, the target is operative increasing demand for Advanced Water EBITDA margin of 14–16%. The range takes into Treatment (AWT) among municipalities for account economic cyclicalities. We have set clear such solutions. We are currently expanding targets and launched purposeful initiatives how our capabilities and knowhow to serve this we will improve our financial performance. market. In 2016, we launched the new BOOST program to enhance our operational excellence. We operate in 63 manufacturing sites, serving 16,000 ship-to-customers in over 100 countries with a wide product portfolio of more than 2,000 products and we feel convinced that we can extract more out of the company in the future. Kemira targets above-the-market growth. Annual market growth in the respective chemicals is estimated to be around 2% until 16 People – MAKING AN IMPACT TOGETHER EMPLOYER OF CHOICE diverse working environment. Our result-oriented – OUR JOURNEY SO FAR and collaborative culture empowers employees to We aim to be an employer of choice by ensuring solve the challenges of tomorrow in an inspiring that our diverse workforce enjoy a safe and company, so that together we can have a major engaging working environment. We also strive to impact on the future. We have started implementattract, develop and retain the right mix of taling the new Employer Brand concept by renewing ented people for the continued success and our Kemira.com/careers site and the implemengrowth of Kemira. tation will be completed during 2017. BUILDING OUR SAFETY CULTURE LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Safety is our first priority in all our locations Skilled leaders are key to the successful execuglobally, and our long-term goal is zero harm to tion of Kemira's strategy. We continue to help our people. We are continuously investing a lot of leaders to develop by running on-the-job learning, training time and resources to further enhance stretch projects, coaching and mentoring our safety culture. As an example, in 2016 we schemes, and development programs. In 2016, started a group-wide Behavior Based Safety 494 leadership development activities were program which will be rolled out to all locations. completed, exceeding our target of 300 for the During 2016, the frequency of reported injuries year. per million hours worked (TRIF) decreased significantly to 3.4, compared to 7.2 in 2015 (covers EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT both Kemira employees and contractors working An engaged workforce is the cornerstone for at our sites and facilities). becoming the employer of choice. We currently measure employee engagement with our biennial EMPLOYER BRANDING Voices@Kemira survey and intervening pulse During 2016, we renewed our employer brand surveys. In 2016, we ran a brief pulse survey, concept. We aim to offer employees the right mix whose results suggest that our employee engageof opportunities and challenges in a global and ment levels are stable and in line with industry norms. The latest Voices@Kemira survey was done in 2015. Making an We have impact together DIVERSITY defined three We are an equal opportunity employer. A total of differentiating Empowering your 60 nationalities are represented in our workforce, themes for full potential and our gender split is 74% male and 26% female. The diversity of our workforce supports our our employer organizational performance. In 2016, we defined Delivering brand: the diversity principles for the composition of our innovation Board of Directors. 17 2016 Innovating together WITH CUSTOMERS Kemira’s main goal in terms of innovation is to future, so we can develop our products further. help our customers improve their process effiWe are a technology house for chemistry, able to ciency and product quality to make us their first tailor solutions and solve customers’ problems – choice. We innovate for the future through cusand this is an important differentiator in competitomer collaboration, partnerships and open tion with our peers. innovation. We utilize the opportunities of digitalization to improve our own efficiency as well as the services offered to customers. Customers benefit by using our products and solutions to: • Improve product properties and quality INNOVATING TOGETHER • Enhance process and energy efficiency • Ensure that water quality meets end-use TO IMPROVE OUR specifications and regulatory requirements. CUSTOMERS WATER, ENERGY AND RAW We focus on customer-driven, sustainable innovation. Sustainability reviews are required at MATERIAL EFFIENCY every stage of Kemira’s New Product Develop→→250 EXPERTS IN 3 R&D ment (NPD) process to ensure that sustainability CENTERS IN FINLAND, criteria are met. These evaluations consider impacts on Kemira’s own operations as well as on CHINA AND US customers’ processes. We also aim to identify →→348 PATENT FAMILIES more sustainable alternatives for raw materials →→1,236 GRANTED with the help of our NPD process. We always push for solutions that improve sustainability comPATENTS pared to those already available on the market. →→860 PENDING PATENTS Our technical customer support in the field provides a feedback loop to let us know how our products are working in our customers’ industrial facilities, how they are serving our customers, and what needs our customers might have in the 18 Our global network 63 manufacturing Polyacrylamide Coagulants (29) polymers and other process chemicals (24) Bleaching and pulping (10) sites Ship-to countries 19 2016 Pulp & P 13.4 62 % % LEADING Operative EBITDA global pulp and paper chemical supplier # of group revenue 1 Market Position Growth Profitability 2 x market growth In line with Group target Profitable growth drivers Winning Formula – Bleaching chemical New Total Chemistry Acquisition synergies excel in basic game capacity additions Management (TCM) contracts 20 aper THE LEADING GLOBAL PROVIDER OF CHEMICALS FOR THE PULP AND PAPER INDUSTRY Growth in the use of pulp & paper chemicals is driven by higher production volumes for board and tissue grades. Kemira has unique expertise in chemical applications, and we are well placed to help our pulp & paper producing customers to innovate and constantly improve their operational efficiency and end-product quality. We are working to support our customers through the transition to a bio-based economy, by enabling production with fewer inputs, lower environmental impacts and a reduced water footprint. 21 2016 RESULT 2016 MARKET POSITIONS #1 IN EUROPE 1,457 Revenue #2 IN AMERICAS #1 IN APAC PRODUCTS Share of segment revenue: 35% Bleaching and pulping 25% Strength and sizing EUR million, growth 3% 20% Defoamers, dispersants, biocides and other process chemicals 10% Polymers 10% Other (e.g. paper colorants) Operative EBITDA MAJOR RAW MATERIALS 195 Acrylonitrile, olefins, cationic monomer, tall oil soaps and crude tall oil, electricity, fatty acids, heavy fuel oil/natural gas, maleic anhydride, sodium chloride, sulfur EUR million, margin 13.4% 40 Pulp % KEMIRA PULP & PAPER CUSTOMERS 40 Packaging & Board, % Tissue & Specialties 20 % Printing & Writing 22 2016 IN BRIEF →→ Volume growth continued, supported by Total Chemistry Management deals in the APAC region, BUSINESS SPECIFICS and paper-to-board conversion start-up contracts →→ Strategic commitment to the pulp & in the EMEA region. paper industry →→ Revenue growth impacted by lower sales prices →→ Customer and application-driven and unfavorable currency fluctuations. approach →→ Strong improvement in profitability, driven by →→ Offerings adapted to regional acquisition synergies, new production capacity, requirements higher utilization, and improved gross margin →→ Innovative partner for customers in the →→ Inauguration of a new bleaching chemical plant in pulp & paper industry Ortigueira, Brazil for Klabin. →→ Synergy realization from the AkzoNobel´s paper KEMIRA'S COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES chemicals acquisition proceeded ahead of plan, →→ Application know-how with the target increased from EUR 15 million →→ Product performance to EUR 20 million. Current run-rate at the end of →→ Backward integration into key raw 2016 was EUR 14 million. Contract manufacturing materials insourcing successfully completed in the Americas. →→ Comprehensive offering Insourcing progressing according to plan in the →→ Global reach EMEA and APAC regions, with completion expected CUSTOMER VALUE during 2017. Improved →→ Announcement of new line for bleaching chemical →→ Process efficiency capacity in Joutseno, Finland. The new capacity is →→ End-product features and quality expected to come into operation during the fourth →→ Raw material, energy and water quarter of 2017. efficiency: sustainable innovations STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2 x market growth with improved MARKET OUTLOOK profitability Our Pulp & Paper segment is expected to grow How? at double the market growth rate. The market’s →→ Improve customer experience compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) is →→ Maximize capacity utilization estimated to be 1.0%. The majority of the growth is expected to occur in emerging markets in →→ Manage fixed costs South America and the APAC region. Though →→ Reduce complexity market growth in the APAC region is expected →→ Enhance performance culture to slow down slightly, it is still expected to →→ Invest in growth and R&D be some 2–3% per annum. There is also an increased demand for pulp chemicals in the Nordic region, where several expansion projects are ongoing or have been announced. Thanks to our comprehensive offering, our global reach and our strong application knowhow, Kemira remains well positioned to serve the pulp and paper industry. 23 2016 Oil & Min 5.9 % 13 % GROWING Operative EBITDA chemical supplier to oil, gas and mining # industries of group revenue 2* Market Position * in polyacrylamide polymers Growth Profitability Double-digit growth-% Over-the-cycle profitability over-the-cycle in line or above the Group target Profitable growth drivers Recovery of shale market CEOR tailored polymers for harsh Oil sands – tailings treatment conditions in Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery 24 ing INNOVATIVE KNOWHOW ON CHEMICALS AND APPLICATIONS FOR THE OIL, GAS AND MINING INDUSTRIES Kemira provides a unique combination of knowhow on innovative applications and chemicals that can improve process efficiency and yields in oil, gas and metals recovery. We tailor chemistries for specific process needs, ensuring each customer has the most cost-effective and best-performing product for their particular application and field. We help our customers to extract oil, gas and certain ores with higher resource efficiency, getting more out of existing resources, while also utilizing less water and energy. 25 2016 RESULT 2016 MARKET POSITION #2 IN GLOBAL POLYACRYLAMIDE POLYMERS Revenue 310 PRODUCTION PRODUCTS Share of segment revenue: 60% Polyacrylamide polymers EUR million, growth -12% 40% Other products such as dispersants, antiscalants, biocides, emulsifiers, defoamers Operative EBITDA MAJOR RAW MATERIALS 18 Acrylonitrile, acrylic acid, various monomers EUR million, margin 5.9% 35 % Other industries KEMIRA OIL & MINING CUSTOMERS 40 Oil & Gas % through distributors 25Mining % 26 2016 IN BRIEF →→ Revenue decreased due to weak oil and gas markets. BUSINESS SPECIFICS →→ Signs of recovery in the US shale oil and gas market →→ Application-driven approach towards the year end, albeit fragile and at early →→ Focus on rapid innovation to solve our phase. customers’ critical challenges →→ Further business gained in the Canadian oil sands market. KEMIRA'S COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES →→ Progress in the development of tailored products →→ Innovative knowhow on chemicals and for Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery (CEOR). applications →→ Restructuring of a manufacturing plant in Botlek, →→ 2nd largest manufacturer of Netherlands. polyacrylamides worldwide →→ Continue to selectively grow our process industry CUSTOMER VALUE portfolio. Improved →→ Process efficiency →→ Yield →→ Cost efficiency →→ Water efficiency MARKET OUTLOOK →→ Energy efficiency Volatile market conditions are likely to continue going →→ Compliance with environmental into 2017. Being a technology and value provider, regulation Kemira is well positioned to weather the fluctuations in the market. Recovery of shale market, oil sands and STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery (CEOR) present longRecovery in shale business, and growth in term growth opportunities in Oil & Mining segment. new applications like Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery and oil sands. How? →→ Improve customer experience →→ Maximize capacity utilization →→ Manage fixed costs →→ Reduce complexity →→ Enhance performance culture →→ Invest in growth and R&D 27 2016 Municipal Indus 14.9 % 25 % MARKET LEADER Operative EBITDA in water treatment chemicals in Europe # and North America of group revenue 1 Market Position, EU & North America Growth Profitability Steady growth of 2-4% Slightly below Group target Profitable growth drivers Geographic expansion Expansion in product offering Advanced Water Treatment (AWT) 28 & trial MARKET LEADER IN RAW AND WASTE WATER TREATMENT CHEMICALS The market for Kemira’s Municipal & Industrial segment is driven by regulation. Kemira is helping municipalities, private operators and water intensive industries to advance through the transition towards a circular economy by enabling water to be reused, and by improving the efficiency of water treatment at every stage of water management. We are the leading chemicals supplier for raw water, waste water and sludge treatment applications in Europe and North America, and the only manufacturer offering a full product portfolio of coagulants, polyacrylamide polymers and other water treatment chemicals. This makes our position in the market unique. 29 2016 RESULT 2016 MARKET POSITIONS #1 IN EUROPE 596 Revenue #1 IN NORTH AMERICA PRODUCTS Share of segment revenue: 65% Coagulants EUR million, growth -2% 20% Polyacrylamide polymers 15% Other products such as antiscalants, defoamers and biocides 89 Operative EBITDA MAJOR RAW MATERIALS →→ 60–70% secondary input materials: participating in local and flexible by-product streams →→ Acrylonitrile, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, aluminum hydrate, iron ore, pickling liquor, EUR million, margin 14.9% copperas (ferrous sulfate) 40 % 60 % KEMIRA MUNICIPAL Industrial customers & INDUSTRIAL Municipal customers CUSTOMERS 30 2016 IN BRIEF →→ Volume growth in line with market growth. Lower sales prices have impacted revenue development. BUSINESS SPECIFICS →→ Market position remains strong in our key markets. →→ Regulation-driven business →→ Advanced Water Treatment initiatives progressing →→ Local business well, e.g. on-line monitoring and control based →→ Municipal tenders applications for sludge dewatering and odor →→ Raw material backward integration control. →→ Large customer base →→ Strong operative EBITDA margin improvement from 13.7% to 14.9%, driven by better operational KEMIRA'S COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES performance, customer focus and lower raw →→ Security of supply, speed, and logistics material prices. flexibility →→ North American business impacted by raw material →→ Expertise and decades of knowledge in supply disruption, which was solved operationally water treatment applications during the year. →→ Comprehensive portfolio →→ Closures of manufacturing plants in Zaramillo, →→ Backward integration into other Spain, and Ottawa, Canada. industries’ by-products through long-term partnerships →→ Extensive manufacturing network in mature markets MARKET OUTLOOK Our Municipal & Industrial segment’s strategic intent CUSTOMER VALUE is to grow by 2–4% annually, and to further improve Improved profitability and maximize cash flow. For us to achieve greater growth figures, water treatment will need to be →→ Water treatment process reliability and more strongly regulated and enforced – especially in efficiency: total water cycle management emerging markets. →→ Regulatory compliance and beyond STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE Steady growth and cash flow generation How? →→ Further strengthen the base business in raw and waste water treatment →→ Build on top of our strong existing customer base with innovation-driven Advanced Water Treatment applications →→ Selective geographic expansion in Middle East, Africa and APAC →→ Expand product offering by introducing existing products into new markets 31 2016 KEMIRA RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES CHANGES IN CHANGES IN LAWS CHANGES IN CHANGES IN RAW MATERIAL CUSTOMER DEMAND AND REGULATIONS COMPETITION COSTS & AVAILABILITY OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES →→ Rising demand for →→ Increased demand for →→ Large customers looking →→ Efficiencies brought sustainable solutions chemical treatment for a strategic supplier by active price and for: packaging, board of water, due to with a global footprint inventory management and tissue grades; stricter regulation and and commitment to their and forecasting chemistries enabling enforcement line of industry →→ Bio-based materials water recycling and →→ Regulatory →→ New product and increasingly favored as reuse; and technologies developments expected service concepts such an alternative to fossilenabling unconventional to favor recycling and as all-encompassing based materials oil and gas recovery and reuse of resources chemistry management enhanced conventional and increased use of oil recovery digitalization RISKS →→ Sustainability and RISKS RISKS →→ Regulatory compliance aspects →→ Increased costs impact →→ Further decline in developments creating emphasized in partner profitability demand for printing and pressure to replace selection →→ Dependency on a single graphical paper grades, chemicals with source for raw material leading to mergers and other substances or supply mill closures technologies RISKS →→ Breaks or disturbances →→ Prolonged/further →→ Bans/restrictions on →→ Major competitor or in the availability of key slowdown in oil, gas and substances used in customer consolidations raw materials mining activity, due to Kemira’s production that could reshape soft market conditions →→ Changing regulations market positions →→ Shift in demand towards on import/export and →→ New standard water treatment customs, increasing commodity chemical technologies with lower the need to effectively producers entering the chemical consumption monitor and master market →→ Unforeseen customer global trade compliance production slowdowns MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH →→ Systematic monitoring →→ Proactive follow-up →→ Regular strategy reviews →→ Comprehensive strategic of market development and participation in to reflect changes in the approach to sourcing →→ Focus on improved regulatory discussions competitive situation →→ Strategic purchase sustainability of relating to chemical →→ Close follow-up of contracts, backward products and solutions substances, water competitive activity integration, tracking treatment and the of prices of key raw →→ Customer intimacy and →→ Investments in circular economy materials innovation competencies and →→ Active evaluation of capabilities →→ Captive manufacturing →→ Geographic and alternatives to debated of critical raw materials customer-industry →→ Differentiation and substances diversity customer intimacy →→ Strategic investment →→ Focus on R&D: in energy-generating →→ Comprehensive & →→ Participation in market innovations enabling companies, and the diversified portfolio consolidation and active more efficient use and hedging of a portion of →→ Flexible manufacturing M&A monitoring recycling of resources the Group’s energy and network with →→ Continuous systematic →→ Increased focus and electricity spend competitive scale and joint development resource allocation for →→ Active communications of new product and company compliance spotlighting the benefits service concepts matters (incl. trade of Kemira’s technologies compliance) 32 ADVERSE DEVELOPMENTS COMPETITION POTENTIAL FOR HAZARD & GEOPOLITICAL IN INNOVATION CAPABILITY FOR KEY TALENT REPUTATIONAL DAMAGE CHANGES OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES →→ Attractive employer →→ Ability to demonstrate →→ Kemira’s ability to →→ New geographical status in many areas, high performance innovate for resource markets become thanks to marketand compliance efficiency, circular accessible leading knowhow and with standards and economy and people processes expectations, giving bioeconomy together us an advantage over with customers smaller players RISKS →→ Possible harmful RISKS incidents such RISKS RISKS →→ Key talent attracted by as process safety →→ New disruptive →→ Business interference value chain players deficiencies, machinery technologies by or other adverse breakdowns, competitors consequences caused environmental damage, by political actions, or employee health →→ Slow product portfolio renewal, lack of trade-related political and safety incidents, decisions or economic together with the differentiation uncertainties, either consequent financial →→ Failure in raising globally or in countries losses and brand awareness regarding strategically important damage new products and to Kemira →→ Unauthorized IT system service concepts and access or damage related competitive caused by computer advantages malware/viruses, resulting in physical damage or financial losses MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH →→ Continuous →→ Systematic focus on →→ Customer intimacy and →→ Continuous monitoring identification of high achieving set targets co-creation and consideration of potentials and key and implementing →→ Innovation metrics and geopolitical movements competencies for certified management sustainability checks and changes, followed meeting future needs systems, efficient by appropriate business →→ Differentiated products →→ Development and hazard prevention adjustments and technologies, improvement of programs and application knowhow compensation schemes, related reporting, crisis management →→ Monitoring and scouting learning programs, and procedures, and for new technologies career development programs personnel competency →→ Ensuring adequate development marketing and technical →→ Systematic approach →→ Insurance programs sales expertise and and commitment to protecting the company training employee engagement against the financial →→ Collaboration with impacts of eventual educational institutes, hazards employer branding →→ Systematic risk analyses and continuous improvements in procedural, technical and physical protection mechanisms 33 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES TABLE OF 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT KEMIRA 02 1.1 Contribution to value creation 02 CONTENTS 1.2 Targets, performance and recognitions 03 1.3 Focus areas of our corporate responsibility work 04 1.3.1 Responsible business practices 05 1.3.2 Sustainable products and solutions 07 1.3.3 Responsibility towards employees 08 1.3.4 Responsibility in our supply chain 10 1.3.5 Responsible manufacturing 12 1.3.6 Responsibility towards local communities 14 2 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 14 2.1 Our commitments 14 2.2 Stakeholder expectations 15 2.3 Material impacts and risks due to our business model 16 2.4 Managing our material impacts and risks 18 2.5 Governance of our corporate responsibility 20 management approach 3 OUR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 21 3.1 Economic 21 3.2 Environment 23 3.3 Labor practices and decent work 31 3.4 Human rights 38 3.5 Society 39 3.6 Product responsibility 41 4 REPORTING PRINCIPLES 43 4.1 Reporting framework and disclosures 43 4.2 Reporting scope 43 4.3 Report profile 45 5 ASSURANCE REPORT 46 6 GRI CONTENT INDEX 48 7 LINKING KEMIRA'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AND THE 53 EU DIRECTIVE 2014/95/EU ON NONFINANCIAL AND DIVERSITY DISCLOSURES GRI disclosures provide information about our economic, environmental and social impacts caused by our business activities and how we manage these impacts. The GRI disclosures are prepared according to the sustainability reporting framework of The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). These disclosures together with the Business Overview provide an overview on corporate responsibility at Kemira. 2016 1 GRI DISCLOSURES 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT KEMIRA Focus Areas 1.1 CONTRIBUTION TO VALUE CREATION Our corporate responsibility work is guided by our strategic strategy by creating value in the long term, improving our goals and choices, our stakeholders’ expectations and our operational efficiency, ensuring compliance and managing commitments to Kemira’s Code of Conduct and internarisks. For Kemira, corporate responsibility means both tionally defined principles. In our corporate responsibility being responsible throughout our own operations, and work, our selected focus areas, targets and key perforcontributing to sustainable development all along our value mance indicators (KPIs) all help us to execute our business chain. FOCUS AREAS OF OUR CORPORATE EXECUTION OF VALUE CREATION OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES RESPONSIBILITY WORK OUR STRATEGY TARGETS Sustainable products IMPACTS OF OUR and solutions Creating value BUSINESS MODEL Vision, Values, Purpose, for Kemira and Strategic goals and stakeholders Responsibility towards choices employees Responsibility in Above-the-market our supply chain revenue growth STAKEHOLDERS’ Improving EXPECTATIONS operational efficiency Responsible Operative EBITDA manufacturing 14–16% Responsibility towards the COMMITMENTS communities we operate in Kemira Code of Conduct Ensuring Responsible Care compliance and UN Global Compact managing risk Responsible business practises 2 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 1.2 TARGETS, PERFORMANCE AND RECOGNITIONS Focus Areas OUR TARGETS AND PERFORMANCE IN 2016 Focus area Topic, KPI, target value Comments Status INNOVATION SALES Due to delays in 10 9% Share of innovation revenue in commercialization of NPD 8% 8% 10% 8 7% total revenue, % projects the innovation sales → 10% by the end of 2017 target was slightly behind the 6 5% → KPI reported quarterly 10% target. However, a record 4 number of new products and new treatment concepts were 2 launched in 2016 (14 versus 3 0 Sustainable in 2015). Innovation sales target 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target products & 10% was extended by one year 2017 solutions until 2017. Behind target In progress Achieved SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT The new supplier audit process 25 Number of onsite sustainability was initiated, with 4 onsite audits 25 audits for highest risk suppliers conducted by an external service 20 (with lowest sustainability provider. 15 assessment score) 1 10 → 5 suppliers audited every year 5 4 during 2016–2020, average → KPI reported annually 0 Responsibility 2016 Target 2020 in our supply chain Behind target In progress Achieved CLIMATE CHANGE The carbon index2 improved 120 Carbon index as a result of purchased 100 100 88 91 92 86 → Kemira Carbon Index ≤ 80 by electricity sourced from less 80 80 end of 2020 (2012 = 100) carbon-intensive sources. This 60 → KPI reported annually improvement outweighed the negative effect of the sale of 40 part of Kemira's holding in 20 Pohjola Voima Oy, which entitled 0 to nuclear power production 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target capacity in Finland. 2020 Responsible manufacturing Behind target In progress Achieved OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Safety performance significantly 10 8.5 AND SAFETY improved due to our time and 8 7.1 7.2 Total Recordable Injury efforts invested on management 5.8 Frequency (TRIF) commitment, employee 6 (per million hours, Kemira + engagement and higher visibility 4 3.4 contractor, 1 year rolling average) of safety related matters in our 2 → Achieve zero injuries (TRIF 2.0 internal communication. Responsibility by 2020) 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 towards the → KPI reported quarterly employees Behind target In progress Achieved EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Next biennial Voices@Kemira 100 84% 85% 80 70% 75% 67% Employee engagement index survey is being planned for 2017. 58% based on Voices@Kemira 60 biennial survey 40 → The index at or above the 20 external industry norm 0 Participation rate in 2011 2013 2015 Voices@Kemira ■ Engagement → 75% or above ■ Participation → KPI reported biennially Behind target In progress Achieved LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT The amount of leadership 1,500 1,500 Leadership development development activities during activities provided, average 2016 was very high (494), and 1,000 → Two (2) leadership we are significantly ahead development activities per of our target of having 1500 494 500 people manager position development activities4 during during 2016–2020 3 2016–2020. 0 → KPI reported annually 2016 Target 2020 Behind target In progress Achieved 1 117 sustainability assessments have been performed for strategic, critical and large spend suppliers. 2 Carbon index value in 2015 was corrected from 91 to 92 due to more accurate information from few sites. 3 The cumulative amount of leadership development required to reach two (2) leadership development activities per people manager position during 2016–2020 equals 1,500 leadership activities (when number of people manager positions is 650–850). 4 Development activities include job rotations, coaching and mentoring, and development programs. 2016 3 GRI DISCLOSURES OUR RECOGNITIONS IN 2016 ROBECOSAM Kemira participates in the RobecoSAM corporate sustainFocus Areas CDP ability assessment to understand our strengths, identify Kemira achieved a rating of Leadership development areas, and examine how our sustainability ( A) in CDP’s Climate Change 2016 evaluation performance is benchmarked against our peers in the (on a scale of A to D). This Leadership level chemical industry. In 2016, our score improved to 73 on a indicates that the company is implementing scale of 0–100 (from 71 in 2015). Our relative ranking (as a current best practices in its actions to combat percentile) within the chemical industry is 68% (66% in climate change. Kemira was rated above the 2015), indicating that Kemira’s overall sustainability chemical industry average in all of the categories assessed, performance is clearly above the chemical industry i.e. governance and strategy, risk and opportunity manageaverage. The assessment results show that our performent, emissions management, and verification. mance is above the average both at an aggregated level and on most individual issues in the economic and environECOVADIS mental dimension, although within the social dimension Kemira’s approach to Corporate Social our Human Capital Development still needs improvement Responsibility (CSR) management was given to bring our performance up to the same level. a Gold rating by EcoVadis. To achieve this recognition, a company must have an overall score of 62–100 on a scale of 1 to 100. Kemira’s score was 75. The EcoVadis methodology frame1.3 FOCUS AREAS OF OUR work assesses the policies and measures put in place by companies with regard to environmental issues, labor CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY practices, human rights, fair business practices and WORK sustainable procurement, as well as the related reporting. The results indicate that we have a structured and proactive CSR approach, with appropriate engagements, policies Our focus areas clearly reflect Kemira’s priorities for and tangible actions on major issues, as well as effective managing economic, environmental and social impacts in CSR Reporting on our actions and performance. our value chain. For each focus area we have defined key topics to facilitate our management approach. We follow the principles of continuous improvement including target setting and follow-up. Corporate responsibility focus areas Key topics for the management approach Responsible business practises • Code of Conduct, Compliance program • Anti-corruption and bribery • Human rights Sustainable products and solutions • Innovation for a sustainable product portfolio • Product stewardship Responsibility towards employees • Workplace safety – Occupational Health and Safety • Employee engagement • Leadership development Responsibility in our supply chain • Responsible business practices in our supply chain Responsible manufacturing • Reducing environmental impacts of our operations through better energy efficiency and safety of our operations Responsibility towards the • Safe neighborhood with Kemira communities we operate in • Engagement of our employees for the benefit of local communities 4 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 1.3.1 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR ETHICS PRACTICES AND COMPLIANCE Focus Areas Our commitment: to ensure compliance with regula• Our Ethics and Compliance function is responsible for tory requirements and high ethical standards. overseeing the effective implementation of Kemira’s compliance program. The status of the compliance program is also reported directly to the Audit Committee on a regular basis. CODE OF CONDUCT • The Compliance Committee oversees the management of compliance allegations to ensure fair and sufficient Our management approach for responsible business investigation, remediation and disciplinary action practices is based on our corporate values and our Code of across our organization. The committee consist of Conduct. These principles demonstrate our commitment to Group General Counsel, EVP Human Resources, Head of conduct our business in compliance with all applicable Internal Audit, and Director, Ethics and Compliance. laws and regulations, and according to ethical standards. • Our Local Ethics and Compliance Officer Network Our Code of Conduct sets the minimum standards of consists of employees across the organization who expected behavior for our employees and business support our regional ethics and compliance activities partners. Our internal policies and procedures provide as part of their work. more detailed guidance to steer our daily work and decision making. Every Kemira employee receives regular training on our REPORTING MECHANISMS FOR NONCode of Conduct, which is available in 21 languages and COMPLIANCE distributed to all our employees. We also train selected employee groups on more specific compliance matters, We promote a culture that encourages our employees to such as anti-bribery, competition compliance and insider speak freely. We provide everyone with a safe, secure and information. confidential way to express their concerns and ask We expect our business partners to follow our Code of questions when the usual ways are unavailable or inaproConduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) priate. Our employees have access to an externally hosted in their business activities. Ethics and Compliance Hotline, which is a 24/7 service Both of these Code of Conduct documents can be found enabling them to report potential violations of our Code of at www.kemira.com. Conduct and any other concerns. All employees can anonymously submit such reports in their own languages, by phone or through a web form, wherever such channels ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE AT KEMIRA are not restricted by local legislation. Employees can additionally report suspected non-conformities to Kemira's Our Ethics and Compliance Program aims to enhance Ethics and Compliance function or Internal Audit function. compliance management at Kemira on a continuous basis. The email address responsibility(at)kemira.com can The Program addresses all of the following measures taken also be used by third parties to report cases of potential to manage risks related to ethics and compliance: misconduct relating to Kemira or our business partners. • PREVENTION: measures that help us proactively This information is available on our website and in the prevent ethics and compliance risks from materializing; Kemira Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and • DETECTION: measures that help us detect where ethics Agents. and compliance risks have materialized or may arise; • RESPONDING: measures that help us investigate and respond to potential ethics & compliance breaches. 2016 5 GRI DISCLOSURES NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS* IN 2016. (GRI G4: EN34, LA16, HR12, SO11) Focus Areas G4-EN34: Number of grievances about In 2016, public complaints about oil leakage at the FC Power hydrogen power plant located environmental impacts in the Kemira´s industrial site at Joutseno, Finland. See G4-SO2. G4-LA16: Number of grievances about No grievances about labour practices were filed through formal grievance mechanisms in labor practices 2016, and no previously filed grievances existed that needed to be resolved. G4-HR12: Number of grievances about Four grievances regarding human rights impacts were filed in 2016 through our Ethics and human rights Compliance hotline. All of these grievances were addressed and resolved during 2016. G4-SO11: Number of grievances about No grievances about impacts on society were filed through formal grievance mechanisms in impacts on society 2016, and no previously filed grievances existed that needed to be resolved. * The formal grievance mechanism for our employees is the Ethics and Compliance Hotline. For external stakeholders there are several channels such as contacting Kemira management directly or responsibility[at]kemira.com. KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 • A Group-wide Ethics and Compliance Risk Assessment nominated a project leader to take the development was performed in 2016 aiming to gain an overall actions further. understanding of Kemira’s exposure to ethics and • Our Ethics and Compliance function conducted regional compliance risks. The assessment mainly focused on ethics and compliance visits during 2016. These visits competition compliance, anti-corruption, third party aim to increase our employees’ awareness of ethics and due diligence, fraud, and ethics and compliance compliance matters, and spotlight the principles of culture. The assessment was conducted jointly with an ethical business conduct. external partner. It involved an extensive survey, • New part-time Local Ethics and Compliance Officers interviews, a workshop, and top management validawere nominated in 2016 to strengthen our compliance tion. The results suggest that Kemira has a strong program. Their role is to provide support locally for culture of ethics and compliance and the compliance related activities such as communications and training, program has many building blocks well in place that while they will also help us to resolve compliance help us to manage our compliance risks. The assessallegations and concerns. ment recommendations enable us to develop our compliance program further. • Kemira’s Management Board approved a new Investigation Procedure in July, defining a standard investigation process for the timely and appropriate evaluation of any allegations involving potential non-compliance, misconduct or fraud. Our Ethics and Compliance function is responsible for the implementation of the new procedure. FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE • A Data Privacy Compliance Assessment was performed MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS to evaluate how well Kemira’s current personal data Anti-corruption (SO3, SO4, SO5) processing practices meet the requirements of the EU Public policy (SO6) Anti-competitive behaviour (SO7) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which will Compliance (SO8, EN29, PR9) become effective in spring 2018. The assessment Non-discrimination (HR3) helped us to identify and plan actions required to Human rights assessments (HR9) improve our compliance with the GDPR. Kemira has 6 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 1.3.2 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN INNOVATION SOLUTIONS MANAGEMENT IN 2016 Focus Areas Our commitments: to provide sustainable products • Our innovation sales were 9%, while our target is 10% and solutions for our customers enabling improved share of total revenue. The improvement was supported resource and process efficiency, and to ensure the by an increase in the number of new products and safe use of our products throughout their lifecycle. concepts (14) launched in 2016 (3 in 2015). • NPD projects are implemented with stronger crossKey performance indicator (KPI) and related functional engagement and shorter throughput time of Target target value innovation projects, to speed up the rollout of new Innovation sales* Share of innovation revenue in total revenue products. The time taken to get newly launched Kemira → 10% by the end of 2017** products to the market is on a par with or sligthly * Definition of innovation sales: new chemistries, product upgrades shorter than the chemical industry benchmark. and tailored chemistries sold into new applications, developed and • We have continued to implement the NPD process launched within the last 5 years. applying a wider range of sustainability criteria, and ** Target has been extented to 2017 with more quantitative evaluations of sustainability benefits. • A new Technology Roadmap was approved by the INNOVATING FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE Management Board with a focus on identifying secondPRODUCT PORTFOLIO ary bio-based raw materials for our chemicals. Sustainable value creation is an integral part of Kemira's strategy and business. We help our customers to improve PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AS A FOUNDATION their water, energy and raw material efficiency. Innovation FOR OUR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO drivers for new products include improved product performance, a lower environmental footprint in our value chain, Product Stewardship involves the proactive management and improved safety throughout the product lifecycle. Our of the health, safety and environmental aspects of a innovation work also focuses on the identification and product throughout its lifecycle. It covers activities related testing of alternative, more sustainable raw materials, to the initial introduction of a product, its evaluation and particularly including secondary or bio-based materials. modification during the product lifetime, and eventually Our open innovation approach has especially been applied also the product’s withdrawal from our product portfolio. to find ways to increase the use of biodegradable raw Our customers have their own health, safety and materials. environmental requirements for their input materials, and they typically follow several voluntary certification schemes, including ecolabelling schemes, which set SUSTAINABILITY REVIEWS IN NEW PRODUCT further expectations on our product offerings. Public DEVELOPMENT discussion and concerns relating to specific chemicals and their hazards also affect our approach to product stewardSustainability evaluations are integrated into our New ship and chemical management. Kemira follows all such Product Development (NPD) process. The evaluations developments closely, and we take an active approach to examine the economic, environmental and social impacts fulfilling the expectations of different stakeholders. of any new product, compared to existing benchmarked solutions. The NPD process starts with an idea generation and collection phase, and continues with five development KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN PRODUCT stages and decision gates. Each NPD project is supported STEWARDSHIP MANAGEMENT IN 2016 by a cross-functional steering team, who ensure that sustainability and business related factors are considered In 2016, a new Product Stewardship policy was issued. We at every stage of the process. also continued to enhance and implement our manageSuccessful NPD projects must demonstrate both ment process for priority substances. These are subimproved sustainability and business benefits at each stances included in selected regulatory schemes with the decision gate to justify the project’s continuation, and anticipation of stricter regulation in the future, or subultimately the product launch. The NPD project must also stances seen as controversial or questionable by our demonstrate better overall sustainability both for Kemira’s stakeholders. own operations, for example in terms of raw material use, safety and energy usage, and for our customers’ operations, for example in terms of better process efficiency. FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS Products and services (EN27, EN28) Customer health and safety (PR1, PR2) Product and service labelling (PR3, PR4) Marketing communication (PR6) Product compliance (PR9) 2016 7 GRI DISCLOSURES 1.3.3 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS cases covering Kemira employees and contractors working EMPLOYEES at our sites and facilities. Focus Areas In 2016, 45 people were involved in accidents (TRI) in Our commitment: to ensure a safe and engaging our operations. In comparison to 2015, we were able to workplace for all employees decrease the amount by 42%. For Kemira employees, there has been no fatalities since 2005. Key performance indicators (KPIs) and During 2016, we focused on improving our health and Target related target values safety culture to prevent incidents and mitigating health Occupational health Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) and safety risks. We also ran an extensive behavior based and safety (per million hours, Kemira employees and contractors) safety assessment with findings indicating that Kemira is → zero injuries (TRIF 2.0 by 2020) developing well in safety culture although improvements Leadership Leadership development activities provided, are still needed. The Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) culture development long-term average development program was initiated on a global level and → Two (2) leadership development activities per people manager position during the program will continue in 2017. Two BBS management 2016–2020 workshop were organized for our top management and Employee Employee Engagement Index communication of the company safety issues has been engagement → Index at or above the industry norm extensive. Participation rate in Voices@Kemira We also continued improvements in our internal audit → 75% or above and review systems. We continued the implementation of EHSQ standards for critical activities, for example the contractor management standard. We also improved SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE incident investigations to identify root causes to learn and share, and to avoid repeating similar incidents. Kemira’s long-term vision for safety is “Zero harm to In 2016, all Kemira employees had safety as an obligapeople” and we aim for world class safety level (TRIF 2.0) by tory bonus KPI based on safety performance (TRIF) and 2020. We aim to build up a strong health and safety culture near miss reporting. through visible management commitment and having skilled and well-trained employees. We ensure that incidents and safety observations are consistently EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT reported, with improvements realized to address the root causes of incidents. Our Employer Brand promise, performance management, Our health and safety management practices are competence development, and leadership development are guided by our updated Environmental, Health, Safety and all central to our commitment to employee engagement Quality Policy (Jan 1, 2017) which requires that Kemira’s and our goal of becoming an employer of choice. companies and operations will continue to implement and maintain management systems that meets all applicable EMPLOYER BRAND PROMISE international standards. By the end of 2016, 89% (86% in During 2016, we renewed our employer brand concept 2015) of Kemira’s manufacturing sites were covered by which describes our value proposition to our employees. OHSAS 18001 certification. We aim to offer employees the right mix of opportunities Our safety performance has improved as measured by and challenges in a global and diverse working environthe TRIF indicator (Total Recordable Injury Frequency per ment. Our result-oriented and collaborative culture million hours worked), which includes fatalities, lost time empowers employees to solve the challenges of tomorrow injuries, restricted work cases and medical treatment in an inspiring company, so that together we can have a major impact on the future. OUR SAFETY PERFORMANCE (TRIF) EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY To follow-up on the Voices@Kemira survey in 2015, we 9 8.5 conducted a lighter Pulse survey in Q2, 2016, with a focus 8 on the key drivers of the employee engagement. While the 7.1 7.2 7 results of the two surveys are not directly comparable, 6 5.8 feedback obtained through the Pulse survey indicated that 5 engagement levels remained positive during the period. 4 3.4 The results of the Voices@Kemira people survey 3 conducted in 2015 showed that we are meeting our target 2 to have an employee engagement index at or above the 1 industry norm, and a participation rate of 75% or above. 0 Improved engagement was achieved by carefully creating, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 implementing and monitoring action plans designed to TRIF indicator = Total Recordable Injury Frequency per million hours address areas for improvement identified in the previous worked, including fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted work cases and such survey in 2013. medical treatment cases involving both Kemira employees and contractors working at our sites and facilities. Contractors’ injuries and working hours have been included in our TRI figures since 2014. 8 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT We have continued to build a strong leadership bench to Focus Areas 100 meet our business needs in relation to executing our 84 85 strategy and driving our long-term growth. Our global 80 75 Talent Management process is well established, and 70 67 58 provides a structured way to identify employees with 60 potential for leadership positions. We work with this 40 identified leadership talent to ensure we have strong development plans in place. To this end, our leadership 20 development target 2016–2020 is to provide on average at least two leadership development activities per people 0 manager position during the period 2016–2020. In 2016, a 2011 2013 2015 total of 494 such activities were realized (target = 300), representing a significant improvement compared to 2015. ■ Employee engagement index, % ■ Participation rate, % of total employees PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT Kemira’s performance management process aligns our strategic targets with each employees' personal targets, performance evaluation, competencies and development plans. This process is now well established within Kemira as part of our leadership culture, and it forms the backbone of our management system. Our employees are required to take an active role in their own learning and development which includes keeping their competencies up to date in relation to their work and their career aspirations at Kemira. In 2016, we completed two pilots to test a simplified approach to competence assessment, development and evaluation. We will apply the key findings from this project when we shape our Performance Development Discussion (PDD) process in 2017. FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS Employment (LA1, LA2) Labor/management Relations (LA4) Occupational health and safety (LA6) Training and education (LA9, LA10, LA11) Diversity and equal opportunity (LA12) Equal remuneration for women and men (LA13) Freedom of association and collective bargaining (HR4) 2016 9 GRI DISCLOSURES 1.3.4 RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY IN SUPPLY CHAIN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Focus Areas Our commitment: To ensure compliance with Supplier risk and compliance management, supplier responsible business practices in our supply chain performance evaluation, and supplier relationship development are cornerstones of our management approach to Key performance indicator (KPI) and ensure responsibility in our supply chain. Target related target value Responsible Number of onsite sustainability audits RISK AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT business conduct in for suppliers with lowest sustainability our supply chain assessment score (=highest risk) • Compliance with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, 5 suppliers with highest risk onsite audited Distributors and Agents is required by all our suppliers per year (average during 2016–2020) and business partners. • Supplier segmentation is a foundation not only for supplier risk and compliance management but also for STRUCTURE OF OUR SOURCING AND SUPPLY supplier relationship development. Our suppliers are CHAIN MANAGEMENT [GRI G4-12] segmented into four categories: strategic, critical, volume and base suppliers. Our Sourcing function is globally responsible for strategic • New supplier screening is part of our New Vendor spend management, while our Supply Chain Management Creation process. All new potential suppliers fill in a function provides supply chain related services on regional questionnaire which checks for conflicts of interest and level to our business segments. supplier acceptance of Kemira’s Code of Conduct for • Our Sourcing activities cover the identification and Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA), covering selection of suppliers, the consequent negotiations and responsible business conduct, respect for human contract management, and the management of rights and provision of appropriate working conditions, supplier relationships. Our supplier selection criteria and environmental responsibility. [Indicators GRIare based on cost competitiveness, short-term operaG4-EN32; LA14; HR10; SO9 percentage of new suppliers tional excellence, long-term business stability as well screened.] as sustainability performance, which was added as • Sustainability assessments. Strategic, critical or large criteria in 2016. spend suppliers undergo an assessment through an • Our Supply Chain Management activities cover all online platform provided by an external service prosupply chain related services to our business segments vider. once the supplier relationship has been established by • Sustainability and Quality Audits. Suppliers with low our Sourcing function. Supply Chain Management sustainability assessment score are audited with services include Customer service, Logistics, Supply certified and qualified Audit Partner. Large spend chain planning, and Procurement. The Supply Chain suppliers undergo also quality audits, which include Management function has regional units that each workplace health and safety standards, production provide all the services needed within their respective quality and supply security. regions. The total spend of sourcing categories Direct materials and SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE EVALUATION (SPE) PROGRAM Indirect goods and services amounted to about EUR 1.8 • The program provides our suppliers regular feedback on billion in 2016. The Direct materials cover all raw materials their operational performance. We rate our suppliers for and energy while Indirect goods and services include all the accuracy of invoice price and quantity, compliance non raw material related spend for example equipment, to delivery terms and quality requirements, in order to services, and logistics. identify where any improvement is needed. Supplier We have approximately 13,800 suppliers consisting of sustainability assessments are an established part of 1,600 Direct material suppliers and 12,200 Indirect the overall evaluation program. suppliers. Despite of the large number of suppliers, approximately 10% of all suppliers account for some 80% of the total spend. Geographically approximately half of our suppliers are in Europe. Direct materials Indirect Goods and Structure of Kemira’s supplier base Services Number of suppliers, approximately 1,600 12,200 EMEA 700 (44%) 6,700 (55%) Americas 630 (39%) 4,000 (33%) APAC 270 (17%) 1,500 (12%) Number of suppliers that form 80% of the category spend 180 (~10%) 1,220 (~10%) 10 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP DEVELOPMENT been assessed. In 2016, our focus was on indirect and • Our Vendor Value Program@Kemira was launched in logistics service providers, with 43 such suppliers Focus Areas 2015 to support our management of strategic supplier assessed. relationships. The program is aimed to develop capabilities that will enable us to identify, partner with and manage strategic and critical suppliers along the SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS various value chains associated with Kemira’s product lines. In those few cases where suppliers have failed to improve their sustainability performance to meet our standards and expectations, the suppliers are subject to sustainability CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS, audits at their own premises. In 2016, we conducted four DISTRIBUTORS AND AGENTS (COC-SDA) audits in collaboration with an external service provider. Based on the audit results, a plan with corrective actions All our suppliers must follow our Code of Conduct for and implementation timeframe and follow-up schemes Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) in relation to have been prepared. The corrective actions were related to all of their dealings with Kemira. This code contains health and safety and labor practices. requirements on issues including responsible business conduct, respect for human rights and provision of appropriate working conditions, and environmental responsibilKEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 ity. Kemira’s Sourcing and Procurement policy emphasizes that adherence to these principles is to be confirmed in • A new supplier audit process was initiated, with four writing by all repeat suppliers with an annual spend value audits conducted in collaboration with an external of at least EUR 200,000 (EUR 250,000 starting from Jan 1, service provider. 2017) for indirect materials or EUR 500,000 for direct mate• Kemira issued a Slavery and Human Trafficking rials. Should a supplier refuse to give such a confirmation, Statement in accordance with the UK Modern Slavery and if Kemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier Act. adheres to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is performed by our Sourcing personnel to assess whether we need to cease all purchases from them. Signed CoC-SDAs are registered in Kemira’s contract archive. By the end of 2016, a total of 89% (93%) of Kemira’s repeat suppliers had signed CoC-SDAs. SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT PROGRAM Our strategic, critical and large spend suppliers are requested to participate in a sustainability assessment process. The assessment platforms are provided by external third party companies which are specialized in standardized supplier sustainability evaluation based on the principles of the UN Global Compact and the Responsible Care program. Based on the assessment results, the suppliers in the target group are classified into high, medium or low risk categories. High risk suppliers who do not comply with our Code of Conduct or meet our expectations in certain areas of their sustainability profile, are asked to implement an improvement plan, which define the corrective actions needed and an implementation timeframe. Suppliers with ongoing improvement plans are always reassessed the FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE following year. MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI G4 INDICATORS A total of 117 supplier sustainability assessments have Emissions (EN17) – Scope 3 (supply chain) Transport (EN30) been conducted since the launch of Supplier Sustainability program in 2014. Approximately 25% of total spend has 2016 11 GRI DISCLOSURES 1.3.5 RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING KEMIRA CARBON INDEX Based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Our commitment: to improve our manufacturing Focus Areas operations to enhance safety and environmental 120 protection 100 100 91 92 88 86 Key performance indicator (KPI) and related 80 Target target value Climate change Kemira Carbon Index 60 → an index score of at least 80 by the end of 2020 (baseline year 2012 = 100) 40 20 The main environmental impacts of Kemira's manufacturing operations relate to CO2 emissions due to high energy 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 intensivity of some of our product lines. In 2016, our operations in Finland account for 40% of our total energy consumption, USA 33%, region South The Kemira Carbon Index measures our CO2 performance America 16%, and other countries 10%. The 14 largest both on a consolidated basis and for individual manufacmanufacturing sites of our 66 operational sites during 2016 turing sites. The index covers the CO2 emissions of fuel consumed 90% of the energy we use, and accounted for consumption for direct energy production in our sites, as 85% of our CO2 emissions. A substantial portion of our well as emissions from purchased steam and electricity, energy management activities is focused on these most but it excludes direct emissions from chemical processing. energy-intensive sites, which include seven sodium The index is independent of the impacts of any changes in chlorate manufacturing plants in Finland, USA, Uruguay production volumes, but it can be affected by the product and Brazil. Sodium chlorate plants use more than 80% of mix. the electricity we purchase. Electricity prices consequently play an important role in the capacity utilization planning KEMIRA ENERGY EFFICIENCY INDEX of our chlorate plants. The growing market for pulp has Our Energy Efficiency Index enables us to monitor energy increased demand for chlorates as pulp bleaching agents, efficiency both on a consolidated basis and for each site, and has driven our investments in chlorate production. reflecting the improvements we have achieved. KEMIRA CARBON INDEX – TARGETED KEMIRA ENERGY EFFICIENCY INDEX REDUCTIONS IN OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT 120 Kemira introduced a climate change target in 2014 to 100 99 99 97 96 reduce the Kemira Carbon Index by 20 percentage points 100 by the end of 2020 compared to the baseline year 2012. Our 80 key measures to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions include: 60 • Purchasing more steam and electricity generated using 40 renewable, or less carbon-intensive energy sources 20 • Shifting our use of fuels towards less carbon-intensive energy sources 0 • Improving energy efficiency in our manufacturing sites 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 In 2016, the Kemira Carbon Index decreased to 86 (baseline year 2012: 100) as we were able to source a higher share of The Kemira Energy Efficiency Index measures the ratio of low-carbon energy and we continued to invest in more energy use and production normalized to a 2012 benchenergy efficient equipment and production lines through mark for our 14 most energy-intensive production sites (12 our E3Plus energy efficiency program. This improvement in 2015), which account for more than 90% of our total outweighed the negative effect of the sale of part of energy use. The index is not affected by changes in producKemira's holding in Pohjola Voima Oy, which entitled to tion volumes, but may be affected by the product mix. nuclear power production capacity in Finland. The Carbon Index for 2015 was updated from 91 to 92 due to more accurate data from a few sites. 12 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES OUR ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT RESPONSIBLE ENERGY SOURCING PROGRAM – E3PLUS Focus Areas The Kemira sites using the highest shares of the electricity Improving energy efficiency in manufacturing is the best we purchase are our energy intensive chlorate manufacturway for us to reduce our energy usage and related costs. ing sites in Finland and US. Our chlorate sites in Finland Energy costs amount to approximately 10% of our total count for 41% (44%) of total purchased electricity during spend of sourcing. 2016. During 2015–16 we have upgraded our E3plus Energy Electricity price risk is mitigated through strategic Efficiency Enhancement Program to step up the energy investments in energy-generating companies, and by efficiency improvement work and activities started in 2010. hedging a portion of our energy and electricity spend. The E3plus program aims to reduce the overall specific Kemira owns shares in the Finnish energy companies energy consumption of all our sites (measured as kWh per Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO) and Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO). ton of product) and thereby reduce our energy costs. During 2016 Kemira sold off 43.3% PVO Class B shares which represented approximately 16% of Kemira´s share of The key focus areas of E3plus program are: its electricity production capacity in Finland. We purchase • Global alignment of energy efficiency management the rest of the electricity we use in Finland from Nord Pool. across all Kemira sites In other countries, energy is purchased from local suppliers • E3 Energy Reviews conducted to identify improvement taking into account the favorability of the energy source. projects and support their implementation During 2016, Kemira received Guarantee of Origin • Technical and economic evaluation of investement certificates for 111,678 MWh (105,895 MWh in 2015) of projects to improve energy efficiency electricity purchased from hydropower and wind energy • Further development of our energy efficiency managesuppliers. All the certificates granted to Kemira were ment system, facilitating ISO 50001 certification in cancelled i.e. made non-tradable, with their benefits selected major sites exclusively redeemed by Kemira. Our energy efficiency measures focus on our most energy intensive sites. During 2016, we set site-specific energy efficiency targets for selected sites based on energy consumption data collected in 2015 in addition to the findings of E3 Energy Reviews. In 2016, we also established a new global energy management team whose members represent manufacturing sites, our global energy management work, and electricity sourcing personnel. This continues strengthening our global energy efficiency and technology management work under global coordination. Our energy management team coordinates, steers and supports energy management activities across all regions. Since the start of the E3 program in 2010, energy efficiency improvement measures have been continously implemented across Kemira’s operations. In 2016, we continued to focus on manufacturing processes, with investments made in more energy efficient equipment and production lines. The continuous modernization of the process equipment used in our two highly energy-intensive chlorate plants in Finland, Joutseno and Äetsä, generated important savings. Our latest chlorate plant Ortigueira in Brazil is using the state-of-the-art energy efficient FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE technology. MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS Materials (EN1, EN2) Energy savings were also achieved during 2016 through Energy (EN3, EN5, EN6) 20 projects implemented across Kemira’s operations. The Water (EN8, EN10) resulting energy savings totaled 11,068 MWh (7,664 MWh) Emissions (EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21) Effluents and waste (EN22, EN23, EN24, EN25) with cost savings of EUR 0.5 million (EUR 0.3 million). The Environmental expenditures and investments (EN31) cumulative cost savings achieved through about 450 such Environmental compliance (EN 29) initiatives completed globally since 2010 now total EUR 9.2 Local communities (SO2) million. 2016 13 GRI DISCLOSURES 1.3.6 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2 OUR MANAGEMENT Focus Areas Our commitment: to establish and maintain credible APPROACH relationships with local communities Kemira is committed to create positive social impacts in Our management approach is based on our commitments, communities close to our operations. Key priorities include on our stakeholders’ expectations, and on the need to transparency on safety and environmental impacts in the manage the most material impacts and risks due to our vicinity of our manufacturing sites, measures to promote business model. Management activities are integrated into chemistry and our industry as an educational and employcompany-wide management systems. ment opportunity, and the maintenance of open dialogues with local authorities and other stakeholders. We regularly conduct environmental impact assessments and systematic process risk assessments of our 2.1 OUR COMMITMENTS operations. We conduct assessments at every manufacturing site, as defined in regulatory requirements, the ISO 14001 management system and our own internal standards. CODE OF CONDUCT In our dealings with local stakeholders we emphasize transparency, trust and continuous dialogue. We also The Kemira Code of Conduct reflects the principles of the encourage our employees to engage with local community OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. It outlines initiatives and activities on a voluntary basis. the fundamental requirements affecting how we do Our Sponsorship and Donation Policy, launched in 2015 business, and sets standards for behavior throughout the and revised in 2016, provides guidance on the permissibilcompany. We also expect our suppliers and other business ity, appropriateness and general acceptability of cash partners to maintain the same high standards in their own donations, sponsorships, contributions to community operations, as defined in our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, involvement initiatives and other donations made on behalf Agents and Distributors. of or in the name of any Kemira company. All our community involvement activities are locally selected, planned and implemented. Examples of local COMMITMENTS TO INTERNATIONALLY activities include open house days for local residents at our DEFINED PRINCIPLES manufacturing sites, cooperation with local schools and universities, and local charity work. In 2016, Kemira • The United Nations Global Compact is signed by Kemira organized approximately 40 local community activities. as our commitment to respect and promote human rights, implement decent work practices, reduce our environmental impact, and combat corruption. • The Responsible Care® initiative is a voluntary commitment made by the global chemical industry to improve health, environmental performance and security, and to communicate with stakeholders about products and processes. The Responsible Care Global Charter expands and extends the process of continuous improvement beyond the manufacturing of chemicals FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE to other activities, especially those associated with the MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS safe use and handling of products along the value Local communities (SO1, SO2) chain. Kemira Oyj has signed both the Responsible Care initiative and the Responsible Care Global Charter. 14 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 2.2 STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS • Our employees see sustainable business conduct as an important factor behind their engagement with Kemira, Focus Areas according to our employee surveys. Our key stakeholders include our shareholders, lenders, customers, employees and suppliers. Other important We regularly review our stakeholders’ expectations and stakeholder groups include the local communities where concerns to help us update our sustainability priorities. Kemira operates, regulatory bodies, trade associations, According to the most recent review, conducted in spring decision makers and opinion leaders. 2015, our stakeholders continue to highlight the impor• A significant share of our investors practise Socially tance of topics such as sustainable products, safety, Responsible Investing (SRI). Among the 20 largest employee development, business ethics and compliance, shareholders which own 62% of Kemira shares, 13 responsibility along the supply chain, and reductions in investors have signed the Principles of Responsible environmental impacts both in our own operations and in Investment representing 22% ownership of Kemira the value chain. These stakeholder topics are addressed shares. through our corporate responsibility focus areas. Our • Many of our customers are sustainability leaders in approach to stakeholder engagement includes activities their respective industrial sectors. Kemira forms part of ranging from information sharing to active dialogue and their value chains, and we are expected to demonstrate collaboration on issues of mutual interest. the same high commitment to sustainable business as our customers. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Kemira Basis for identification and Kemira’s approach to Key topics and concerns stakeholders selection of stakeholders stakeholder engagement raised through stakeholder (G4-24) (G4-25) (G4-26) engagement (G4-27) Kemira’s response (G4-27) Shareholders • Share of value creation • Regular events like Capital • Management approach to • Responses to investor and lenders through dividends and Markets Day, roadshows, sustainability issues questionnaires interests payments conference calls and • Potential business risks • Transparent reporting and • Expectations for return on one-to-one meetings. 23 and opportunities related disclosure (e.g. participainvestment, good roadshow days; 390 to sustainability issues tion in CDP) corporate governance institutions were met in practices and sustain225 meetings in 2016 ability performance Customers • Our customers are • Direct customer contacts • Product safety • Sustainability checks in Kemira’s main source of • Webinars, exhibitions and • Transportation safety New Product Development value creation trade shows • Solutions to reduce • Product stewardship • Our customers’ expecta• Product testing and plant environmental footprints • Transportation safety tions and needs drive trials • Sustainability risks in our programs Kemira’s product portfolio • Customer surveys supply chain • Supplier Performance and offerings • Kemira’s sustainability Evaluation program performance • Sustainability performance data submitted on request Employees • Share of value creation • Biennial Voices@Kemira Key topics based on the • Performance and through compensation and engagement survey, plus Voices 2015 survey: development discussions benefits lighter Pulse surveys as • Performance management • Leadership development, • Employees’ engagement, follow-up and rewards skills development and well-being and capabilities • Performance management • Visible role modelling training programs influence our operational process emphasizing Kemira’s • Documented action plans performance and value • Kemira European Forum values launched in response to creation. • Town hall meetings the findings of employee • Compliance & ethics surveys hotline Suppliers • Share of our value creation • Working closely with core • Our customers’ expecta• Suppliers are asked to through payments for suppliers to help them tions regarding responsible commit to Kemira Code of goods and services. meet our sustainability business practices in our Conduct for Suppliers, • Suppliers’ sustainability performance expectations, supply chain Distributors and Agents performance may impact and take corrective actions • Business ethics and • Supplier sustainability our operational efficiency if needed (supplier compliance assessments and audits and business risks relationship programs) Local • Our value creation in the • Dialogue and collaboration • Safety and environmental • Transparency communities form of tax payments and with local communities at hazards • Regular and open dialogue employment. major sites to ensure we • Employment opportunities with local communities, • The safety and environunderstand and address e.g. open door days mental performance of our their concerns • Environmental impact and operations may impact the • Collaboration with schools process safety risk assessacceptance of our local and universities ments presence. Regulatory • These stakeholders have • Memberships in industrial • Resource efficiency • Position paper on relevant bodies, trade the capability to influence trade associations • Chemicals safety topics such as the circular associations, or make political decisions • Subject-specific dialogue economy, water reuse and decision makers on environmental issues with regulatory bodies on phosphorus recovery and opinion and legislation relevant to national and EU level • Participation in CEFIC and leaders Kemira’s business. its member organizations 2016 15 GRI DISCLOSURES 2.3 MATERIAL IMPACTS AND RISKS • Indirect impacts of our supply chain: Our logistics operations involve an extensive network of suppliers DUE TO OUR BUSINESS MODEL Focus Areas and customers whose operations have environmental impacts both upstream and downstream of our Our strategic goals and choices define which customer operations, through processes such as transportation. segments we focus on, what products we manufacture, the We currently have 16,000 ship-to-customers in 112 reach of our geographical presence, and how we get our countries, and a manufacturing network with 63 sites products to the market. These decisions result in various and business units in 40 countries. Our supplier base economic, environmental and social impacts either due to for all direct materials and supplies, logistics services our own activities or as a result of our business relationand indirect materials is very extensive, covering some ships. Direct impacts relate to the performance of our own 13,800 suppliers. However, only a limited number of operations, while indirect impacts are generated in our large global suppliers exist for some of our main raw supply chain and in the use of our products by our custommaterials, while for secondary raw materials (recycled ers. or industrial by-products) we typically rely on local suppliers, who often operate in industrial symbiosis with Kemira. OUR MATERIAL ECONOMIC IMPACTS • We generate revenue by selling chemical products for OUR MATERIAL SOCIAL IMPACTS industrial uses in the pulp and paper, oil and gas, mining, and water treatment industries. • Our main social impacts, and related risks, concern the • We have a direct economic impact on suppliers and safe use of our products along the value chain and any service providers through the payments we make for possible non-compliance with responsible business raw materials and services, to employees through practices in our own operations or those of our busicompensation and benefits, to capital providers ness partners. through dividends and interest payments, to the public • Direct impacts on local communities: Our plants sector through taxes, and to society through local seldom have a dominant position in their local comcommunity projects, sponsorships and donations. munities, for example in terms of significant employment impacts, because our manufacturing units are mainly small or mid-size, and mainly located in more OUR MATERIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS extensive industrial areas such as chemical parks. • Direct impacts on workforce education and training: • Our main environmental impacts and risks concern CO2 Our manufacturing operations are not labor intensive, emissions and the safety of our operations. but we do require qualified and skilled employees in • Indirect impacts of our products: Global resource every country where we operate. Our R&D and sales scarcity is an important business driver for our customoperations also require highly qualified professionals. ers. Our customers process, extract and refine natural • Direct impacts on compliance requirements: Our resources such as oil, gas, minerals or fibers. Kemira is external business environment is extensively regulated not directly involved in the utilization of natural by legislation and industry norms covering business resources as such but we do provide solutions to conduct, product life cycle management, and the enable the effective utilization of these resources with health, safety and environmental aspects of our the lowest possible environmental impact. products and manufacturing processes. • Direct impacts of our manufacturing: We convert input • Direct impacts on product responsibility: Our product materials into products through processess causing portfolio includes about 2,400 products which must all also wastes and emissions. Some of our major product be registered and documented according to national, lines are very energy-intensive. The main environmental regional and global legislation and standards in order to impacts of our manufacturing relate to CO2 emissions ensure they are safely used throughout their life cycle. and process safety. • Indirect impacts on compliance requirements in supply • Direct impacts of our products: Our manufacturing and chains: Our suppliers’ performance in terms of labor supply operations involve the transportation, handling practices, human rights and ethical business behavior and processing of various kinds of chemicals, including can represent a risk in terms of negative indirect certain harmful and hazardous substances. impacts in our value chain. 16 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS IMPACTS AND RESPECTIVE MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES Focus Areas INDIRECT IMPACTS DIRECT IMPACTS INDIRECT IMPACTS Production of Upstream Kemira’s own Downstream Use of Kemira input materials transportation operations transportation products and energy Economic Economic performance impact Environmental • Emissions • Emissions • Materials and energy • Emissions • Emissions impacts • Suppliers’ • Suppliers’ • Emissions • Service providers’ • Performance of performance performance • Effluents and wastes performance our products and in terms of in terms of in terms of services environmental environmental environmental impacts impacts impacts Social • Suppliers’ • Suppliers’ • Labor practices and decent work: • Service providers’ impacts performance performance employment and labor relations; performance in terms of labor in terms of labor occupational health and safety; in terms of labor practices, human practices, human training and education; diversity practices, human rights and ethical rights and ethical and equal opportunity; equal rights and ethical business behavior business behavior remuneration for women and men business behavior • Human rights: non-discrimination; freedom of association and collective bargaining; human rights assessments • Societal: anticorruption, anticompetitive behavior, public policy, local communities • Product responsibility: customer health and safety; product and service labelling; marketing communications; product compliance 2016 17 GRI DISCLOSURES 2.4 MANAGING OUR MATERIAL IMPACTS AND RISKS Focus Areas Our management approach is guided by our Code of all our operational sites, our Enterprise Resource Planning conduct and policies, and the systematic implementation (ERP) processes, our work procedures and our responsibiliof our integrated management systems. We regularly ties under one integrated management system globally. conduct due diligence assessments, management reviews This also includes an integrated approach to our global and audits to monitor the effectiviness of our management Environmental, Health, Safety and Quality (EHSQ) manageapproach. Internal and third party audits are conducted ment system, which is based on the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 according to a defined program. Our aim is to bring together and OHSAS 18001 standards. DUE DILIGENCE ASSESSMENTS AND INTERNAL AUDITS Key policies and principles Due diligence processes* Internal audits** Economic impacts • Tax policy • Enterprise Risk Management • Evaluation of internal controls process • Reliability of financial reporting • Effectiveness and efficiency of operations Supply chain impacts • Sourcing and procurement policy • Supplier assessment program • Code of Conduct for Suppliers, • Trade compliance screening Distributors and Agents • Third party due diligence project initiated Environmental • Environmental, Health, Safety and • Environmental impact assess• Management system audits impacts Quality (EHSQ) Policy and Vision ments • Process safety audits • Process hazard analysis • E3 Energy reviews at site level • Legal compliance audits • Group energy reviews in alignment • Stakeholder surveys with ISO 50001 • Self-assessments Social impacts • EHSQ Policy • Behavior based safety program • Site specific EHS audits • Product stewardship policy • Human Rights Impact Assessment • Product regulatory compliance at • Compensation approval policy 2014 manufacturing sites • Competition law compliance policy • Priority substance identification • Internal legal compliance audits • Gifts, entertainment and bribery and prioritization 2015 • Internal management system policy • Stakeholder surveys audits Governance, • Code of Conduct • Ethics and compliance survey 2016 • Evaluation of internal controls compliance and • Non-compliance management ethics (investigation procedure and Compliance Committee) • Legal compliance audits > due diligence * Due diligence: proactive process to identify the actual and potential negative social, environmental and economic impacts of an organization's decisions and activities, with the aim of avoiding and mitigating negative impacts. ** Internal audit is performed within an organization to measure its strengths and weaknesses against its own procedures or methods and/or against external standards adopted by (voluntary) or imposed on (mandatory) the organization. An internal audit is conducted by auditors who are employed by the organization being audited. 18 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES OUR EHSQ MANAGEMENT SYSTEM CERTIFIED MANUFACTURING SITES, % Focus Areas The effective management of Environmental, Health, 100 91 Safety and Quality (EHSQ) issues is a fundamental aspect 90 88 86 86 89 89 81 83 of our efforts to conduct our business in a responsible way. 80 77 75 76 75 66 69 70 59 60 50 40 KEMIRA’S VALUE RELATING TO EHSQ: 30 We care for people and the environment 20 10 KEMIRA´S EHSQ VISION: 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Zero environmental harm Zero harm to people ■ ISO 9001 certification Customer Satisfaction ■ ISO 14001 certification ■ OHSAS 18001 certification Our EHSQ policy applies to all Kemira’s locations and Total number of manufacturing sites 63 at the end of 2016. operations – and also to anyone working on behalf of Kemira or in alliance with Kemira. The policy sets out our commitment to continuously enhance our health and safety performance, reduce harmul environmental impacts, Kemira implements a Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) enhance our energy efficiency, improve customer satisfacprocess of the EHSQ management system as part of our tion levels, and eliminate quality failures. The updated commitment to achieve continual improvement. The EHSQ policy (Jan 1, 2017) requires that Kemira’s companies process includes conducting internal and external audits of and operations will continue to implement and maintain our manufacturing plants, research and development management systems that meets all applicable internafacilities, and offices. Kemira also reviews (and updates as tional standards. necessary) the EHSQ standards, procedures, policies, and Our EHSQ management system covers our value chain related elements that are part of the management system. processes all the way from our suppliers to our customers, Kemira has developed a global EHSQ Document Manageto ensure that all of the environmental, health and safety ment System (DMS) to manage and maintain our controlled and quality aspects are well managed. Related key perfordocuments, records, and archived documents created as mance indicators (KPIs) and annual improvement targets part of this process. are set at global, regional and site level, and we conduct In 2016, Kemira updated and approved standards for monthly KPI monitoring and quarterly management reviews Contractor Management, Emergency Planning and Preparon a regional basis. edness, Field Sales EHS, Management Review and Management System Auditing, Process Safety, and Transportation EHS. In addition, EHSQ developed a Spill Prevention Standard that will be approved and published in the first MAIN SCOPE OF EHSQ MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS: quarter of 2017. Environmental impact ISO 14001 Health and safety OHSAS 18001 Customer satisfaction ISO 9001 OUR ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Our energy policy is part of our EHSQ policy. Our EHSQ management system is externally audited • Major energy consuming sites in the European Union through a three-year audit scheme. In 2016, the auditors must be certified under ISO 50001 to meet the requireexamined 77 site locations (77 in 2015), including manufacments of the EU’s Energy Efficiency Regulation. Our turing sites, major office locations and R&D centers. The Helsingborg site in Sweden, Äetsä and Joutseno sites in certification rates for manufacturing site locations were Finland, and Kemira Oyj’s energy management system 91% (88%) for ISO 9001, 89% (86%) for ISO 14001, and 89% in Europe are duly certified through ISO 50001 energy (86%) for OHSAS 18001. management schemes. 2016 19 GRI DISCLOSURES 2.5 GOVERNANCE OF OUR ORGANIZATION AND ROLE OF KEMIRA’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FUNCTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Focus Areas MANAGEMENT APPROACH The Corporate Responsibility function, led by the Director, Corporate Responsibility is responsible for managing company-wide processes including: • Identifying, understanding and managing the most RESPONSIBILITY FOR ECONOMIC, significant economic, environmental and social impacts ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL TOPICS of our business activities • Defining our corporate responsibility priorities and GRI G4: G4-34, G4-36 targets • Coordinating, monitoring and reporting on activities Our CEO is ultimately accountable for sustainability and related to our corporate responsibility targets overall performance of our corporate responsibility targets. • Coaching and supporting the organization The CEO reports on these issues directly to Kemira’s Board • Engaging in stakeholder dialogue on sustainability of Directors. matters Our Management Board approves our corporate • Establishing processes, tools and metrics to ensure our responsibility targets and key performance indicators compliance with relevant external norms and stand(KPIs). The Board of Directors is duly informed about these ards, guidelines and expectations. targets, and our related performance, and its members also approve the Business overview and GRI disclosures of The Corporate Responsibility Management Team, chaired Kemira’s Annual Report. The targets and their respective by Director, Corporate Responsibility, supports and KPIs are reviewed annually, with performance follow-ups coordinates the implementation of our corporate responsimade on a quarterly basis and externally reported. bility targets. The members of the team represent the Responsibilities for individual targets are shared organizational units that are responsible for the implemenbetween the members of the Management Board (MB), as tation and business integration of these targets, and for outlined below. Segments and functions are responsible management and performance follow-up in their respecfor their implementation and for driving performance. tive organizational units. They also help to prepare proposals for target updates and KPIs for approval by Kemira’s Areas of accountability Responsibility by position Management Board, and support the quarterly perfor• Responsible business Group General Counsel (reports mance reporting process. practices directly to the CEO and is a • Ethics and compliance secretary of the MB, though not a member of the MB) • Economic impact (Tax policy, Chief Financial Officer Dividend policy) • Responsible sourcing EVP, Operational Excellence • Climate Change (Emissions based on purchased energy, Scope 2) • Sustainable products and solutions: Product stewardship • Energy efficiency EVP, Projects & Manufacturing • Climate Change (Emissions Technology from our own energy production, Scope 1) • Safety • Leadership and employee EVP, Human Resources engagement • Sustainable products and Chief Technology Officer solutions: Innovation • Local community engagement SVP, Communications & • Corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility function (reports directly to the CEO, but is not a member of the MB) 20 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 3 OUR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3.1 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE suppliers and service providers through payments for raw G4-EC1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED materials and services, employees through compensation AND DISTRIBUTED and benefits, capital providers through dividends and interest payments, public sector through taxes, and society Kemira generates economic value from expertise, products through local community projects, sponsorship and and sustainable solutions where water meets chemistry donations. The economic value retained is reinvested in the enabling our customers to improve their water, energy and company for capital investments, R&D and technology raw material efficiency. Kemira distributes the generated development. The economic value retained increased to economic value to various stakeholders. This includes EUR 184 million (160) due to sale of electricity assets. Stakeholder Economic value, EUR million (cash flow based) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Direct economic value generated Customers Income received from customers on the basis of products and services sold, and financial income 2,386 2,350 2,100 2,268 2,312 Direct economic value distributed Suppliers Payments to suppliers of raw materials, goods and services 1,701 1,709 1,684 1,686 1,737 Employees Employee wages and benefits paid 364 356 283 327 340 Investors & lenders Dividends, interests paid and financial expenses paid 114 113 112 113 114 Government & Public sector Corporate income taxes paid 23 12 33 27 30 Economic value retained 184 160 -12 115 91 Community investments were EUR 0.32 million in 2016 through sponsorships and donations. Kemira’s financial midto long-term targets are above-theOUR APPROACH TO TAX market revenue growth (market growth estimate 2015– 2020, CAGR: ~2.0%), operative EBITDA margin of 14–16% Business rationale: We are a responsible corporate citizen and gearing level below 60%. These group level financial in all our operating countries. Kemira’s tax approach targets are translated into business goals and performance supports responsible business performance. Our tax measures for each business segment and further down to approach is based on our values, corporate strategy, the individual performance targets for employees. Kemira Code of Conduct and our tax policies. We target The management approach to economic value generupfront certainty on our tax positions. We do not operate in ated and distributed is based on the Finnish Corporate tax haven countries for tax reasons. Governance Code and the Limited Liability Companies Act, Compliance: Our principle is to strictly comply and pay which states that the purpose of a company is to generate taxes in accordance with all relevant tax laws and regulaprofits for its shareholders, unless otherwise provided in tions as well as international best practices in all jurisdicthe Articles of Association. The overall responsibility for tions where we operate. In addition to corporate income financial performance at group level belongs to the Board taxes, Kemira pays other taxes, including e.g. payroll taxes, of Directors and CEO. Kemira has organized its global social security contributions, property taxes, with holding activities by three business segments, which bear full taxes, value added taxes, and customs duties. profit and loss responsibility. The segment heads are Transparency and relationships with tax authorities: members of the Management Board. Kemira reports and Transparency is an inherent part of our tax strategy. We are discloses its financial statements in accordance with the committed to high quality tax declarations and reporting by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). For observing applicable disclosure, documentation and detailed information, see the sections Corporate Governreporting requirements such as IFRS. We seek to develop ance Statement and the Financial Statement in the Kemira and maintain good working relationships with the tax Annual Report 2016. authorities. We aim at open and constructive dialogue with them to ensure effective cooperation. 2016 21 GRI DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED BY REGIONS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS OF RAW MATERIALS, REVENUE BY CUSTOMER LOCATION GOODS AND SERVICES 10% 10% 38% 52% 39% 51% ■ EMEA (2015: 52%) ■ EMEA (2015: 53%) ■ Americas (2015: 38%) ■ Americas (2015: 38%) ■ APAC (2015: 10%) ■ APAC (2015: 9%) EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS CORPORATE INCOME TAXES, MILLION EUR 25 7% 20 15 39% 10 54% ■ EMEA (2015: 54%) 5 ■ Americas (2015: 39%) 0 ■ APAC (2015: 7%) -5 EMEA Americas APAC ■ 2016 ■ 2015 ■ 2014 In 2015, Americas was refunded the overpaid taxes of 2014 Transfer pricing: Kemira applies the arm’s length G4-EC3: COVERAGE OF THE ORGANIZATION'S principle in intra-group transactions and targets an DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS appropriate remuneration of activities amongst related parties in accordance with internationally accepted The coverage of Kemira’s defined benefit plans are standards, such as the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. reported in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Our OECD BEPS action plan: Kemira follows closely and Statements: Note 22 Defined benefit plans. Kemira has is committed to comply with the OECD BEPS (Base Erosion various pension plans in accordance with local conditions and Profit Shifting) requirements and related legislative and practices. The percentage of salary contributed by changes. Kemira has evolved its documentation and employee or employer to the benefit plan, and the level of compliance processes to fulfill new transfer pricing participation in retirement plans are defined according to documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting requirelocal legislation and practices. ments. G4-EC4: FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT Financial assistance received from governments is reported in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: Note 4 Operating expenses. Kemira received EUR 0.8 million (EUR 1.2 million) in government grants for R&D in 2016 in Finland. 22 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL G4-EN2: PERCENTAGE OF MATERIALS USED THAT ARE RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Environmental performance indicators In 2016, approximately 27% of raw materials across all Kemira business segments were recycled input materials MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS (secondary raw materials) which were recycled materials G4-EN1: MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT and industrial by-products mainly from smelters, as well as OR VOLUME steel and metal manufacturing. The secondary raw materials used included inorganic materials such as scrap iron, The majority of Kemira’s raw materials are non-renewable ferrous sulphate and pickling liquor bath; and organic materials. The renewable materials used include mainly materials such as tall oil and by-product fatty alcohols. In starches, tall oil, and fatty acid derivatives. the production of inorganic coagulants (the product group used in water treatment), secondary raw materials were G4-EN1: MATERIALS USED accounted for approximately 80% of all raw materials used. BY WEIGHT, 1,000 tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total materials purchased 3,536 3,293 3,276 3,521 G4-EN2: RECYCLED INPUT Non-renewable MATERIALS, 1,000 tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2013 materials 3,458 3,222 3,217 3,462 Total materials purchased 3,536 3,293 3,276 3,521 Renewable materials 78 71 59 59 Industrial by-products Share of renewable and recycled material materials, % 2.2% 2.2% 1.8% 1.7% from external partners 945 904 897 911 Share of by-product and recycled materials, % 26.7% 27.5% 27.4% 25.9% ENERGY AND EMISSIONS SUMMARY OF OUR ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS ENERGY BALANCE IN 2016 FUELS 595 (579*) GWh • Renewable 8 (8) • Non-renewable 588 (570*) ENERGY CONSUMPTION 3,977 (3,717*) GWh TOTAL ENERGY INPUT HEAT 696 (627*) GWh 4,426 (4,141*) GWh • Renewable 430 (365*) • Renewable 1,279 (1,008*) • Non-renewable 266 (262*) • Non-renewable 3,146 (3,133*) HEAT DELIVERED OFF-SITE 414 (390*) GWh ELECTRICITY 3,135 (2,935*) GWh • Renewable 842 (634*) ELECTRICITY DELIVERED OFF-SITE • Non-renewable 2,293 (2,301*) 35 (35*) GWh * More accurate information on usage of fuel and electricity at few sites. 2016 23 GRI DISCLOSURES ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY GEOGRAPHY IN 2016 EMISSIONS BY GEOGRAPHY IN 2016 Scope 1 and Scope 2, market-based Environmental performance indicators 26% 27% 27% 40% ■ Finland ■ Finland 33% ■ USA 46% ■ USA ■ Other countries ■ Other countries MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-EN3: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION G4-EN5: ENERGY INTENSITY G4-EN6: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION GRI-G4 Energy balance, GWh indicator 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 1 G4-EN3e 3,977 3,717 3,711 4,127 3,999* Change in total energy consumption 2 G4-EN6 260 6 -416 128* -433* Production volume, 1,000 tonnes 5,028 4,840 4,587 4,809 4,765 Energy intensity, GWh per 1,000 tonnes of production 3 G4-EN5 0.79 0.77 0.81 0.86 0.84 Total energy purchased G4-EN3c 4,426 4,141* 4,107 4,555 4,449 Consumed fuel as energy source G4-EN3a-b 595 579* 542 491 563 Non-renewable 588 570* 542 491 563 Renewable 8 8 0 0 0 Purchased electricity G4-EN3c 3,135 2,935* 2,820 2,799 2,672 Non-renewable 2,293 2,301* 2,282* 2,249* 2,288* Renewable 842 634* 539 550 384 Purchased heat G4-EN3c 696 627* 745 1265 1213 Non-renewable 266 262* 148 1048 992 Renewable 430 365* 596 217 221 Total energy sold G4-EN3d 449 424* 396 429 450 Heat sold off-site 414 390* 366 384 422 Electricity sold off-site 35 35* 31 44 28 * More accurate information on usage of fuel and electricity at few sites 1 The amount of fuel consumed plus purchased electricity and heat minus heat and eletricity sold. Main reason for the increase is the increased production volume. 2 The basis for the energy reduction is energy consumption in one year compared to the previous year values. 3 Kemira has calculated the energy intensity by dividing total energy consumption with the annual production volume. Energy intensity is strongly dependent on the types of production mix, as the energy intensity of Kemira’s production tonnes varies from 0,2 to 6,0 GWh/1,000 tonnes. The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The source for conversion factors used is the International Energy Agency (IEA). Where specific information has not been published on production efficiencies by an energy source, estimates have been made based on engineering judgment and historical data. 24 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS TREND OF OUR GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, CO2 EQ, 1,000 TONNES EMISSIONS Environmental performance indicators 1,800 1,710 1,690 1,610 1,580 Kemira’s greenhouse gas emissions are primarily carbon dioxide (CO2), and negligible emissions of methane (CH4) 1,500 and nitrous oxide (N2O). Kemira estimates GHG emissions 1,200 using factors in terms of CO2 equivalent (CO2eq.) and does 904 900 771 767 765 not specifically estimate and report mass emissions of CH4 and N2O. Scope 1 emissions in 2016 were consistent with 600 2015 emissions despite an increase in production in 2016. 300 137 144 169 166 Kemira maintained emissions at the 2015 levels through the use of less carbon intensive fuels where possible. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Scope 2 emissions also remained consistent with 2015 levels due to improvements in energy efficiency and a ■ Scope 1 higher share of purchased energy with lower GHG emis■ Scope 2 sions levels. Scope 3 emissions are consistent each year ■ Scope 3 within the level of accuracy associated with the calculation methodology. MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-EN15: DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) G4-EN16: INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) G4-EN17: OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) G4-EN18: GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS INTENSITY G4-EN19: REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS GRI-G4 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, CO2eq 1,000 tonnes indicator 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 TOTAL EMISSIONS 1 2,621 2,646* 2,496 2,651 2,692 Change in total emissions G4-EN19 -25 150 -155 -41 N/A Production volume, 1,000 tonnes 5,028 4,840 4,587 4,809 4,765 Emissions intensity2 G4-EN18 0.52 0.55 0.54 0.55 0.56 Direct emissions: Scope 13 G4-EN15 166 169 144 137 147 Change -3 25 7 -10 -33 Indirect emissions: Scope 2 market-based 4a G4-EN16 765 767* 771 904 950 Change -2 -4 -133 -46 -104 Indirect emissions: Scope 2 location-based 4b 1,002 988* Change 14 Other indirect emissions: Scope 35 G4-EN17 1,690 1,710 1,581 1,609 1,594 Change -20 129 -28 15 N/A Since 2013, GHGs are reported as CO2eq. In previous years, only CO2 emissions were reported. * More accurate information on usage of fuel and electricity at few sites. 1 Scope1 + Scope 2 market-based + Scope 3. 2 Kemira has calculated the GHG emissions intensity as the ratio of total GHG emissions per production volume. Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect GHG emissions from energy consumption (Scope 2) and other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) are included. Energy intensity is strongly dependent on the types of production mix, as the energy intensity of Kemira’s production tonnes varies from 0,2 to 6,0 GWh/1,000tonnes. 3 GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Kemira (Scope 1 of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol). Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. GHG emission are calculated as CO2 equivalents which includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. 4a GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, steam and heat that is consumed by Kemira (Revised Scope 2 of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol). Market-based emissions are used for target setting and following progress. Location-based emissions are also shown, but these are not used for other indicators. GHG emission are calculated as CO2 equivalents which includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. The sources for the emission factors used are the IEA, the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Motiva Ltd. and energy utility companies. As many utility companies often publish their specific emissions factors during Q2 or Q3 of each reporting year, previous years' factors have been used. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. 4b Location based Scope 2 emissions were calculated first time in 2015. 5 GHG emissions from Kemira's value chain (Scope 3 of WRI/ WBCSD GHG Protocol). Major changes have occurred for all years as a more detailed calculation was carried out for this report and among others, end-of-life treatment of sold products changed significantly and previous years' data was corrected. The calculation is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and a supporting guidance document Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. Scope 3 emissions have been calculated since 2012. GHG emission are calculated as CO2eq. The sources for the emission factors used include the guidance document for the Chemical Sector, the DEFRA, the IEA, Ecoinvent, CEFIC and ECTA. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. CEFIC = The European Chemical Industry Council; ECTA=The European Chemical Transport Association. 2016 25 GRI DISCLOSURES G4-EN17: SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS BY CATEGORIES Environmental performance indicators Purchased goods and services cover 50% (51%), and upstream and downstream emssions 33% (32%) of our Scope 3 emissions. SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS BY CATEGORIES, CO2eq, 1,000 tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 TOTAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 1,690 1,710 1,580 1,610 1,590 1. Purchased goods and services 840 870 760 770 770 2. Capital goods* * * * * * 3. Fuel and energy related activities 230 230 240 220 220 4. Upstream transportation and distribution 220 200 200 220 210 5. Waste generated in operations 40 20 20 20 20 6. Business travel 10 10 10 10 10 7. Employee commuting 10 10 10 10 10 8. Upstream leased assets (leased offices) 10 10 10 10 20 9. Downstream transportation and distribution 330 350 330 340 340 11. Use of sold products 0 0 0 0 0 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products 0 0 0 0 0 * Emissions of Category 2: Capital goods are included in Category 1: Purchased goods and services. Scope 3 was restated in 2015 due to more accurate information available. Major changes occurred for years 2012–2014 as a more detailed calculation was carried out. Category 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products changed significantly. Category 12 covers all products sold. If a product is not known to have a new lifecycle, it is classified as waste. Category 11 emissions were estimated to be zero or close to zero, as Kemira does not sell combustible fuels, products that form GHG emissions during use, or products that contain GHG. The calculation is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and a supporting guidance document Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. Scope 3 emissions have been calculated since 2012. GHG emission are calculated as CO2eq. The sources for the emission factors used include the guidance document for the Chemical Sector, the DEFRA, the IEA, Ecoinvent, CEFIC and ECTA. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. The margin of error for Scope 3 calculations is +/20%. NOTE: Category 10 Processing of sold products is not calculated because it cannot be reasonably tracked; Category 13 Downstream leased assets is not relevant to chemical sector; Category 14 Franchises is not relevant to chemical sector; Category 15 Investments: No information available. G4-EN20: EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS) RELEASES INTO AIR, tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Ozone-depleting substances 0 0 0 0 The data collection on ozone-depleting substances (ODS) from Kemira's sites was made for the first time for the year 2013. A value of zero represents emissions equal to or greater than 0 and less than 0.5 tonnes. G4-EN21: NOX , SOX , AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS RELEASES INTO AIR, tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Nitrogen oxides (NO2) 1 152 194 206 185 190 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 2 84 83 86 122 116 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 3 799* 430 661 682 742 Volatile inorganic compounds (VIC) 4 164* 36 59 65 94 Particulates 11 14 16 16 21 The figures presented are based on data collected directly from Kemira's sites. * VOC and VIC emissions increases are primarily associated with the site that is the largest emitter of VOC and VIC in Kemira. The site’s production rate increased in 2016, and the site improved the accuracy of the emissions calculation methodology for VOC and VIC. 1 The sum of nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide calculated as NO2. 2 All sulphur compounds are calculated as SO2. 3 VOC is a sum of volatile organic compounds as defined in EU Directive 1999/13/EC. 4 Sum of ammonia, hydrogen chloride and six other simple inorganic compounds. 26 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECTS: WATER AND EFFLUENTS G4-EN8: TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE G4-EN10: PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED Environmental performance indicators G4-EN22: TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE BY DESTINATION GRI-G4 WATER BALANCE, million m3 indicator 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL G4-EN8 102 98* 104 157 144 Sources of process water 8.7 8.4 7.5 6.3 6.7 Surface water 4.4 4.2 3.7 1.5 1.8 Ground water 1.1 1.3 1.1 0.4 0.8 Rainwater 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Waste water from another organization 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Municipal water suppliers 2.4 2.4 2.2 2.2 3.5 Other 0.8 0.5 0.5 2.0 0.6 Sources of cooling water 93.5 89.4* 96.7 151 138 Surface water 88.0 83.6 93.3 146 131 Ground water 1.6 2.3* 0.3 2.0 3.0 Rainwater 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Waste water from another organization 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Municipal water suppliers 0.1 0.2 0.2 1.0 0.0 Other 3.7 3.3 2.9 3.0 4.0 TOTAL WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED, million m3 G4-EN10a 20.4 16.9 25.9 74.6 59.6 Share of total water recycled and reused, % 1 G4-EN10b 20% 17% 25% 47% 41% Water recycled back in the same process 17.2 13.8 23.0 74.5 59.5 Water recycled in a different process, but within the same facility 2.8 3.1 2.9 0.1 0.1 Water reused in another facility 0.4 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 TOTAL WATER DISCHARGES G4-EN22a 75.2 72.8 73.1 2.1 2.4 External treatment of waste water 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Own treatment of waste water 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.6 Discharged with no treatment e.g., cooling water 73.2 70.8 70.9 **N/A **N/A Unspecified water losses 2 6.5 8.1* 5.3 The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. * Numbers corrected due to more accurate data collection. ** Cooling water discharges not included in the data collection before 2014. 1 Water recycled and reused is calculated as a percentage of the total water withdrawal as reported under Indicator G4-EN8. 2 Balance = Unspecified water losses such as water evaporated. Calculated as Water withdrawal minus Water reused and recycled minus Water discharged. Kemira aims to have minimum 90% accuracy on the water balance. G4-EN22B: TOTAL WATER DISCHARGES BY QUALITY RELEASES INTO WATER, tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 34 16 15 16 21 Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) 0 1 2 1 6 Nitrogen (N) 3 2 2 2 2 Phosphorus (P) 1 1 0.5 0.5 0.7 Suspended solids 1 2 5.3 1.8 7 Other* 308 9 1 1 1 The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. * In 2016, these releases consisted of chlorides at some sites. The increase in tonnes in the “Other” category is related to primarily to one site experiencing a significant increase in discharge volume compared to 2015 and to the availability of more accurate analytical data. 2016 27 GRI DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECT: WASTE G4-EN23: TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD Environmental performance indicators The weight data of disposed waste is based on internal company records. WASTE, 1,000 tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 TOTAL WASTE DISPOSAL 82.3 110.6 69.4 67.9 80.2 Hazardous wastes, total 51.2 75.2 41.7 41.3 48.4 Off-site landfill 3.4 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.0 Off-site incineration 5.0 2.6 1.7 3.9 1.9 Off-site recycling 7.3 9.6 6.6 3.0 2.7 Other off-site treatment 35.4 61.7 31.7 33.0 42.8 On-site incineration 0.1 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 On-site landfill 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-hazardous wastes, total 31.1 35.4 27.7 26.6 31.8 Off-site landfill 12.1 10.6 11.6 13.7 11.1 Off-site incineration 1.6 1.3 0.8 5.7 1.5 Off-site recycling 7.4 14.9 11.8 4.6 14.3 Other off-site treatment 9.7 8.2 3.1 2.5 2.4 On-site incineration <0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 On-site landfill 0.3 0.3 0.0 0.1 2.4 The waste disposal tonnes in 2016 were less than 2015. In 2015, one site generated a waste that was not part of their normal production wastes. This one-time event caused the 2015 waste disposal tonnes to be abnormally high. In addition, the amount of waste generated due to site closures in 2016 was less than in 2015. The total 2016 waste disposal tonnes are consistent with years other than 2015. G4-EN24: TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF G4-EN25: WEIGHT OF TRANSPORTED, SIGNIFICANT SPILLS IMPORTED, EXPORTED, OR TREATED WASTE DEEMED HAZARDOUS UNDER THE TERMS OF In 2016, Kemira enahanced the focus on the reporting, THE BASEL CONVENTION (2) ANNEX I, II, III, investigating and analysis of incidents, including spills. AND VIII, AND PERCENTAGE OF TRANSPORTED This resulted in more spills being reported compared to WASTE SHIPPED INTERNATIONALLY previous years (our treshold for reporting is 1 l), as well as the development of improved root cause analysis and In 2016, approximately 51.1 tonnes (51.8 tonnes) of corrective actions post-incident to provide lessons learned hazardous waste were transported by or on behalf of and opportunities for improvement for the site and the Kemira to external suppliers not owned by Kemira. Kemira entire company. For example, the increased focus led to the facilities did not treat or import hazardous waste in 2016. development of the Spill Prevention Standard. Two of the hazardous wastes generated at Kemira’s Kemira definition to Major spills are those greater than facility in Fray Bentos, Uruguay do not have a treatment or 1 tonne that reach the environment (i.e., those spills that disposal option within the country. Therefore, it must be are not physically contained or othrewise captured at the shipped to EU for incineration. In 2016, there were no location of the spill) or an incident that requires reporting exports of hazardous waste from the Fray Bentos facility. to a government agency. Kemira used these critiera to Therefore, 0% (0% in 2015) of the hazardous waste generidentify the number and volume of significant spills for the ated in 2016 by Kemira was shipped internationally. purposes of this indicator. In 2016, there were 10 significant spills. Transportation incidents (including related loading and unloading activities) accounted for seven significant spills. The total volume of the tranportation incidents was approximately 74 tonnes. Three significant spills were associated with activities at manufacturing plants. The total volume of the significant spills at manufacturing plant was approximately 24 tonnes. The significant spills did not have permanent or significant impact on the environment beyond the remediated material. These spills were not reported in Kemira’s Financial Statements. 28 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WATER PURIFIED WITH KEMIRA PRODUCTS, 1000 million m3 G4-EN27: EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND Environmental performance indicators 20 SERVICES 18 16 Kemira’s business purpose is to enable our customers to 14 improve their water, energy and raw material efficiency. The 12 10 use of our products and solutions benefits our customers 8 by: 6 • Optimizing product quality and yield 4 • Enhancing process and energy efficiency 2 • Ensuring that water quality meets end-use specifica0 0 2 4 6 8 tions and regulatory requirements 20 0 20 0 20 0 20 0 20 0 20 10 20 12 20 14 20 16 Our business model is business-to-business, and we sell The volume of water purified with Kemira products is based on the products that are used in industrial scale processes mainly share of product sales to water purification applications and using an as processing aids. Only in few cases, namely in paper and experience based average chemicals dosage. It is assumed that in packaging board and in waste water sludge, our products Europe the average water consumption is about 155 liters per day per person. are part of the end-product. The extent of the environmental impacts of our products is mitigated by developing products that enable our customers to reduce their environmental impacts. We G4-EN28: PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS SOLD apply sustainability checks at every stage of our New AND THEIR PACKAGING MATERIALS THAT ARE Product Development (NPD) process. We apply the princiRECLAIMED BY CATEGORY ples of Product Stewardship, i.e., the proactive management of the health, safety and environmental aspects of a Kemira does not reclaim any sold products. However, we product throughout its life cycle. We also work to identify reclaim packaging material when possible. Kemira’s liquid less hazardous and more sustainable alternatives for raw products are mainly transported in bulk units, i.e., ISO-tank materials. Other measures include ensuring safe transporcontainers, tank trucks, and tank railroad wagons, which tation, handling, storage and disposal of our products in are owned by logistics service providers or leased by the value chain. Kemira. When small volume packaging is used we work to For more details on product stewardship see the optimize packaging where it saves packaging and transporChapter Sustainable products and solutions and the tations cost and also reclaim packaging materials when performance indicators PR1-PR4, PR6 and PR9. For possible. When plastic or other reusable material is used in transportation safety, see indicator EN30. packaging, Kemira strives to reclaim the material. We are Our products aimed for water treatment have positive also using a third party service provider to return packaging environmental impacts by preventing and reducing from the customers’ sites for reuse. Packaging that is eutrophication and pollution of water bodies. The volume of returned to Kemira or to a third party is either reused or water purified with Kemira’s water treatment chemicals for processed for recycling. public and industrial purposes is significant. In 2016, the The primary reclaimed packaging materials are volume equals the annual need of pure water to 320 million Reconditioned Intermediate Bulk Container (IBCs). people. RECLAIMED PACKAGING MATERIALS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Reconditioned IBCs 16% 12% 12% 20% 22% Total recycled liquid packages incl. IBCs 7%* 4% 3% 5% 4% Calculated from the total amount of the respective packaging category * More recycling but less volume 2016 29 GRI DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE emissions. Furthermore, our tendering process guides the G4-EN29: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT logistics service providers to look for backhaul arrangeFINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY Environmental performance indicators ments. SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH Guidelines for reducing the environmental impact from ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS business travel are defined in the Kemira travel policy. Internal traveling between Kemira locations has reduced There were no significant fines or non-compliance with through the use of online meeting and collaboration tools. environmental laws or regulations in 2016. There were no non-monetary sanctions in 2016. IMPROVING TRANSPORTATION SAFETY Transportation incidents stayed at the same level as 2015. MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT Kemira is fully committed to develop transportation safety G4-EN30: SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL culture to prevent incidents and chemical leakages into IMPACTS OF TRANSPORTING PRODUCTS environment. Our revised EHS Transportation Standard AND OTHER GOODS AND MATERIALS defines that each region has to develop their own transporFOR THE ORGANIZATION’S OPERATIONS, tation safety programs. All facilities need to comply with AND TRANSPORTING MEMBERS OF THE the requirements of the regional program, but each region WORKFORCE also with any local/regional regulations as applicable. Employees involved in the handling and carriage of Our management approach to mitigate the environmental dangerous goods are trained regularly. Our logistics service impacts of transporting products is based on reducing the providers are expected to commit to the Kemira Code of GHG emissions from transportation activities and improvConduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents. We hold ing transportation safety management to minimize regular safety discussions with logistic operators and incidents and accidents. drivers handling and transporting our products. Our regional EHSQ team is responsibe for the training AVOIDING SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS FROM TRANSPORTATION and monitoring of the implementation of the transportation Emissions from the downstream and upstream transportastandard, while our logistics services and plant operations tion of materials and goods are about 33% of our total are responsible for the safety program implementation and Scope 3 emissions, while emissions from business travel performance monitoring. Every transportation incident is and employee commuting are non-significant (<1%). See analyzed for root causes and actions are taken to prevent indicator G4-EN17 for more details. Our approach in re-occurrence. reducing Scope 3 GHG emissions is based on disciplined management of logistics activities. Our key measures MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES AND include logistics and load optimization and commitment to INVESTMENTS logistics service providers that use vehicles compliant with G4-EN31: TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION latest emission standards. EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE Kemira uses train and ocean modes in longer transports or multimodal transports in shorter distances to In 2016, our main investments were made in air and water avoid emissions compared to the level of road transport. treatment units, spill prevention and control measures, and Load optimization and full truck loads are means to process equipment upgrades. optimize transportation cost but also leading to lower ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION COST, EUR million 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total environmental protection cost 29.1 19.8* 14.1 13.2 17.6 Environmental capital expenditure 11.2 4.8 2.4 1.4 3.4 Environmental operating costs 17.9 15.0* 11.7 11.8 14.2 Environmental protection cost, % of net sales 1.2% 0.8% 0.7% 0.6% 0.8% * Numbers corrected due to more accurate data collection. 30 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 3.3 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3.3.1 L ABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK GENERIC DISCLOSURES: EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE G4-10: STRUCTURE OF EMPLOYMENT At the end of 2016, Kemira employed 4,818 people (4,685). 2015), of which 115 in APAC. The growth has happened The employee distribution by region shows that 54% organically, only three employees joined through acquisi(55%) of Kemira’s total workforce are employed in EMEA, tions. Workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, and 32% (35%) in Americas. The number of employees has or individuals other than the ones in Kemira payroll are not increased by 133 (compared to increase by 437 during counted on these numbers. TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BY GENDER EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP 2016 BY REGION 2016 <30 12 74 Americas 1,558 MALES APAC 30–50 58 26 651 >50 30 FEMALES EMEA 2,609 G4-10: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total number of employees* 4,818 4,685 4,248 4,453 4,857 Females, % 26% 26% 26% 26% 25% Males, % 74% 74% 74% 74% 75% White collar, % 61% 62% 58% 58% N/A Blue collar; % 39% 38% 42% 42% N/A * at year end G4-10A: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER 2016 2015 2014 %,2016 %, 2015 %, 2014 Total number of employees 4,818 4,685 4,248 Total permanent 4,715 4,559 4,133 98% 97% 97% Total fixed-term 103 126 115 2% 3% 3% Females total 1,259 1,220 1,110 Permanent 1,227 1,171 1,064 97% 96% 96% Fixed term 32 49 46 3% 4% 4% Males total 3,559 3,465 3,138 Permanent 3,488 3,388 3,069 98% 98% 98% Fixed term 71 77 69 2% 2% 2% 2016 31 GRI DISCLOSURES G4-10B: TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER 2016 2015 2014 %, 2016 %, 2015 %, 2014 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Total permanent employees 4,818 4,559 4,133 Total full-time 4,747 4,481 4,099 98% 98% 99% Total part-time 71 78 34 2% 2% 1% Females total permanent 1,259 1,171 1,064 Full-time 1,208 1,106 1,037 96% 94% 97% Part-time 51 65 27 4% 6% 3% Males total permanent 3,559 3,388 3,069 Full-time 3,539 3,375 3,062 99% 100% 100% Part-time 20 13 7 1% 0% 0% G4-10D: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER 2016 2015 2014 %, 2016 %, 2015 %, 2014 Total number of employees 4,818 4,685 4,248 Americas 1,558 1,578 1,483 32% 34% 35% Asia Pacific 651 536 352 14% 11% 8% EMEA 2,609 2,571 2,413 54% 55% 57% Females total 1,259 1,220 1,110 Americas 340 338 324 27% 28% 29% Asia Pacific 175 146 99 14% 12% 9% EMEA 744 736 687 59% 60% 62% Males total 3,559 3,465 3,138 Americas 1,218 1,240 1,159 34% 36% 37% Asia Pacific 476 390 253 13% 11% 8% EMEA 1,865 1,835 1,726 52% 53% 55% G4-11: EMPLOYEES COVERED BY BARGAINING SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES: LABOR PRACTICES AGREEMENTS AND DECENT WORK The percentage of employees covered by collective MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT bargaining agreements by ‘significant locations of operaG4-LA1: TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW tion’ varies widely between regions, being lowest in North EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER America (USA 4%, Canada 12%), which is characteristic to BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION the region. In APAC, collective bargaining agreements are a Total number of new hires in 2016 was 695 (673), out of practice in the chemical industry only in few countries, which 31% (31%) were female and 69% (69%) male. The Indonesia and Korea having 100% of employees covered new hires include summer trainee and other temporary with collective bargaining agreements. positions, and insourcing of contract workers (98) in two In many European countries all employees are covered manufacturing sites in China. Kemira’s new hiring reflects by collective bargaining agreements, especially in Northern the similar degree of diversity as in previous years. Europe (Finland, Sweden) and Southern Europe (Spain, Kemira is reporting the employee turnover rate by total France, Italy). In Central and Eastern Europe the percentand voluntary turnover. age varies (e.g. UK 30%, Germany 38%), and for example in The total turnover rate was 9.2% in 2016 compared to Poland there are no collective bargaining agreements. 10.5% in 2015. The total turnover is based on permanent In Brazil and Uruguay all employees are covered by a workforce. collective agreement. The turnover rates in APAC was 8.1% (10.4%) which was The definition used for ‘significant locations of operalowest of the regions continuing to decrease over years. tion’ refers to countries where we have 20 or more employThe highest turnover rate was in Americas 11.2% (13.2%), ees, and which counted together 98% of all employees. In and EMEA had a turnover of 8.2% (8.8%) Kemira’s case there are 22 countries with 20 or more The voluntary turnover rate was 5.6% (5.5%) in 2016 employees. being highest at the age group 30–50 years 11.0% (6.3%) and females 7.8% (8.2%). 32 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES G4-LA1A: NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES W/O AQUISITIONS BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Number of new hires % of total new hires SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Total new hires 695 673 710 100% 100% 100% New hires by age group <30 284 293 291 41% 44% 41% 30–50 358 312 348 52% 46% 49% >50 53 68 71 8% 10% 10% New hires by gender Females 218 208 236 31% 31% 33% Males 477 465 474 69% 69% 67% New hires by region APAC 173 60 60 25% 9% 8% EMEA 364 373 418 52% 55% 59% Americas 158 240 232 23% 36% 33% G4-LA1B: TOTAL TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Turnover Turnover, % 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Total turnover 441 490 736 9.2% 10.5% 17.3% Turnover by age group <30 72 78 96 12.4% 13.6% 18.6% 30–50 228 263 428 8.2% 9.8% 17.6% >50 141 149 212 9.6% 10.4% 16.3% Turnover by gender Females 136 144 242 10.8% 11.8% 21.8% Males 305 346 494 8.6% 10.0% 15.7% Turnover by region APAC 53 56 44 8.1% 10.4% 12.5% EMEA 214 225 464 8.2% 8.8% 19.2% Americas 174 209 228 11.2% 13.2% 15.4% G4-LA1C: VOLUNTARY TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Voluntary turnover Voluntary turnover, % 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Total voluntary turnover 268 258 218 5.6% 5.5% 5.1% Voluntary turnover by age group <30 56 62 42 9.7% 10.8% 8.2% 30–50 162 168 144 11.0% 6.3% 5.9% >50 50 28 32 1.8% 1.9% 2.5% Voluntary turnover by gender Females 98 100 79 7.8% 8.2% 7.1% Males 170 158 139 4.8% 4.6% 4.4% Voluntary turnover by region APAC 44 39 34 6.8% 7.3% 9.7% EMEA 146 139 101 5.6% 5.4% 4.2% Americas 78 80 83 5.0% 5.1% 5.6% 2016 33 GRI DISCLOSURES G4-LA2: BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME periods and the time period for the consultation process EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT PROVIDED TO relating to operational changes varies by country and TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES, BY SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS region, starting from 14 days for smaller changes to up to SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION six months in some countries and for major changes, varying between one to two months in most countries. Benefit programs in Kemira differ depending on regional and country specific practices, and there are no major MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY changes to the practices in recent years. In most countries G4-LA6: TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF the same benefits are offered to full-time and part-time INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, employees, and for temporary employees hired directly by AND ABSENTEEISM, AND TOTAL NUMBER OF Kemira, if the temporary contract exceeds certain length. WORK-RELATED FATALITIES, BY REGION AND BY Benefit practices are country specific and typically do not GENDER vary between locations and operations. Some exceptions apply, for example the sickness fund in Finland is available One of our top priorities during 2016 has been to develop to full-time employees with more than a one year contract, our health and safety culture to prevent incidents and and some countries offer broader insurance and/or mitigate health and safety risks. Time and efforts have retirement benefits for permanent full-time employees. In been invested on visible management commitment, North America, the eligibility for benefits varies, in USA employee engagement and better visibility of health and employees are eligible if they work at minimum 20 hours safety related matters in our internal communication. per week. Our health and safety performance has significantly improved in 2016 compared to earlier years. Kemira reports MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS occupational health and safety as Total Recordable Injuries G4-LA4: MINIMUM NOTICE PERIODS (TRI) which includes fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted REGARDING OPERATIONAL CHANGES, work cases and medical treatment cases covering Kemira INCLUDING WHETHER THESE ARE SPECIFIED IN employees and contractors working at Kemira sites. TRI COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS Frequency (TRIF) is measured as Total Recordable Injuries per million working hours. As stated in the Code of conduct, all our sites are obliged to In 2016, TRIF decreased to 3.4 from 7.2 in 2015. Near follow local laws and regulations and other agreements misses reporting on events that may threaten safety, regarding labor practices, including notice periods. Notice increased due to higher attention on safety culture. TRIF 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Global 3.4 7.2 5.8 7.1 8.5 By region APAC 0.9 0.6 0 0 N/A EMEA 3.4 10.6 6.1 9.2 N/A Americas 4.8 5.7 6.4 5.1 N/A TRIF: Total Recordable Injury Frequency includes Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents+ Restricted work cases + Medical treatment cases. Injury numbers include Kemira employees and contractors working at Kemira site per million work hours. Contractor work hours have been included since 2014. The number of people involved in accidents (TRI) was 45 which was 42% less than in 2015. TRI 2016 2015 20 • Fatalities Total 45 77 15 Zero 7 in Kemira employees 31 56 20 2016: 18 Contractors working at Kemira site 14 21 16, • Lost time incidents 7 2015: 30 5 in Majority of our accidents happened at our production sites I: 4 2016: 27 • Medical treatment cases TR • Restricted work cases and for male employees. 2015: 47 The severity of accidents included in our TRI severity rate has decreased. No fatalities have been associated 2016: 162 • First aid cases with Kemira employees since 2005. Significant increase in 2015: 170 near misses reporting is due to efforts in 2016 to identify and report these events. 2016: 3,093 • Near Misses Unfortunately there was one fatal off-site hauler road 2015: 1,939 Reporting transport accident when transporting Kemira products (off-site incidents are excluded from our TRI definition). Information regarding absenteeism is collected locally and not consolidated on Group level. 34 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION These programs are available based on the position, skills/ G4-LA9: AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER competence level and career aspirations. With the excepYEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER, AND BY SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS tion of leadership development programs and other EMPLOYEE CATEGORY external cost based programs (pre-approval required), employees can typically enroll and complete the selfA global Learning Management System including a training paced learning programs available through our LMS (Learnregister has been rolled out to all Kemira countries and ing Management System). functional areas during 2016. Some of the countries have We had a strong leadership development portfolio taken the system in use during last months of the year, so offering and rate of participation in 2016. Examples of training register does not yet cover the full year for all parts other global and regional programs offered during 2016 are of the organization. In 2016, approximately 48,600 (36,100) listed below: training hours were registered in the learning management • Code of conduct, ethics and compliance programs system, which now covers eLearnings, global training delivered mainly through eLearning programs, and part of the local trainings. During 2017 we • Numerous EHSQ related programs including Chemical will continue to ensure also recording of external trainings handling, PPE and a new behavioral based safety and trainings in the sites. Training hours for biggest leadership program, and a new Energy Management countries currently registered in the system are e.g. Finland program 6,600 (6,800) hrs, UK 5,300 (5,800) hrs, Sweden 5,700 • Project management program for project managers and (9,500) hrs, USA 8,100 (4,800) hrs, Netherlands 3,300 project sponsors (4,000) hrs, China 3,700 and Poland 5,500. The average • Onboarding / induction for new hires hours of training for white collar employees do not differ by • Professional selling program gender. • Manufacturing and product training and awareness programs • English language courses G4-LA10: PROGRAMS FOR SKILLS • Various Finance, IT systems and tools training – F&A, MANAGEMENT AND LIFELONG LEARNING THAT Excel and PowerPoint IT skills which are mainly SUPPORT THE CONTINUED EMPLOYABILITY OF available as eLearning EMPLOYEES AND ASSIST THEM IN MANAGING CAREER ENDINGS G4-LA11: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES Kemira provides each employee with access to the relevant RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND competence development programs and structured CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS, BY GENDER learning opportunities to support and assist their continAND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ued employability through on the job learning programs (including onboarding and job specific competence All permanent employees, who are not absent for an development), buddy programs/mentoring programs, and extended time period because of leaves, for example, are traditional methods like classroom and eLearning. covered by our global performance and development discussion (PDD) process. The global PDD process covers The scope includes: both white collar and blue collar employees. Temporary • leadership development (internal and external) proemployees' inclusion in the PDD process is evaluated grams case-by-case, depending on the length of the contract. • professional competence development programs • statutory or compliance related programs G4-LA11: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER REVIEWS BY GENDER AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Employees PDD coverage, % Performance and Development Discussion (PDD) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total permanent employees not absent * 4,590 4,440 4,019 4,281 PDD's by gender Employees covered in global PDD process 4,009 4,147 3,803 2,382 87% 93% 95% 56% Females covered in global PDD process 1,116 1,030 977 816 93% 96% 95% 77% Males covered in global PDD process 2,893 3,117 2,826 1,566 85% 93% 94% 49% PDD's by employee category White collars covered in global PDD process 2,702 2,730 2,317 N/A 98% 97% 98% N/A Blue collars covered in global PDD process 1,307 1,417 1,486 N/A 72% 88% 89% N/A * All permanent employees, who are not absent for an extended time period, are covered by global performance and development discussion process. Employees who started employment after July 1st, 2016 are not included in the PDD process. 2016 35 GRI DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-LA12 COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY The number of females in the Board of Directors has increased by one in 2016. The percentage share of females (26%) in the total number of employees has remained the same in 2016 as in 2015. The number of females in executive positions (Directors and above) has also remained at the same level (22% vs. 22% in 2015 ). G4-LA12A: COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Total % 2016 2015 2014 2013 2016 2015 2014 2013 Management Board Total 10 9 9 11 Females 2 2 2 2 20% 22% 22% 18% Males 8 7 7 9 80% 78% 78% 82% By age group <30 0 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 30–50 2 5 6 5 20% 56% 67% 45% >50 8 4 3 6 80% 44% 33% 55% Board of Directors Total 7 6 6 5 Females 3 2 2 2 43% 33% 33% 40% Males 4 4 4 3 57% 67% 67% 60% By age group <30 0 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 30–50 1 0 0 0 14% 0% 0% 0% >50 6 6 6 5 86% 100% 100% 100% EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Women in executive and other positions 2016 2015 2014 Management Board 20% 22% 22% Executive positions excluding Management Board* 22% 22% 21% White collars 39% 39% 37% Blue collars 7% 5% 11% Total employees 26% 26% 26% * Positions from Director to Senior Vice-President G4-LA12B: BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Total % 2016 2015 2014 2013 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total employees 4,818 4,685 4,248 4,453 100% 100% 100% 100% <30 579 575 515 646 12% 12% 12% 15% 30–50 2,772 2,672 2,435 2,453 58% 57% 57% 55% >50 1,467 1,438 1,298 1,354 30% 31% 31% 30% Females in total 1,259 1,220 1,110 1,164 26% 26% 26% 26% <30 179 188 172 205 14% 15% 15% 18% 30–50 823 773 705 710 65% 63% 64% 61% >50 257 259 233 249 20% 21% 21% 21% Males in total 3,559 3,465 3,138 3,289 74% 74% 74% 74% <30 400 387 343 441 11% 11% 11% 13% 30–50 1,949 1,899 1,730 1,743 55% 55% 55% 53% >50 1,210 1,179 1,065 1,105 34% 34% 34% 34% 36 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO FOR WOMEN AND MEN MEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, BY SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS G4-LA13: RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF OPERATION REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN BY Country 2016 2015 2014 EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, BY SIGNIFICANT Finland 91% 93% 93% LOCATIONS OF OPERATION USA 88% 91% 94% Sweden 99% 96% 103% Kemira operates a global job structure that is applied to all Poland 92% 91% 93% white collar employees. The job structure describes job Canada 88% 86% 94% families and the respective job roles with required qualifiUK 96% 96% 96% cations and main responsibilities. The job structure links to China 94% 94% 93% job grades, which define the salary range and the incentive Netherlands 96% 97% N/A opportunity for a specific job role. Factors impacting salary Germany 98% N/A N/A increases include country-specific salary budgets, the position of an employee in the salary range and employee performance evaluated as part of the performance management process. Incentive payouts are based on measured achievement for pre-defined targets on the company, unit and individual levels. The job grade and salary data information allows Kemira to evaluate, analyse and implement equal remuneration. 2016 37 GRI DISCLOSURES 3.4 HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: ASSESSMENT G4-HR9: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT HUMAN RIGHTS INDICATORS MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION TO HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS OR IMPACT G4-HR3: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF ASSESSMENTS DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN Kemira conducted a Human Rights Impact Assessment in 2014 to identify any risks of human rights impacts in our There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination in operations and in our value chain, and any potential gaps in 2016. our management approach to human rights. Our management approach was assessed against the Operational MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND Principles of the UN Guiding Principles of Business and COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Human Rights. Based on the results, no evidence of G4-HR4: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS infringments of human rights was found. The results IDENTIFIED IN WHICH THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE indicated there are a few potential high risk areas of FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE human rights impacts where we should develop our BARGAINING MAY BE VIOLATED OR AT management approach, which are: SIGNIFICANT RISK, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO • Unsafe handling of hazardous substances may have SUPPORT THESE RIGHTS potential impacts on health and workplace safety • Upstream and downstream business relationships Kemira respects the right of all personnel to establish or • Business expansion in emerging markets. join trade unions and other representative organizations, and we comply with the International Labour Organization’s To address the health and workplace safety issues, we Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, further develop our product stewardship management to as stated in our Code of Conduct. Kemira is also a signatory ensure the safe use of our products in our value chain, and of the United Nations Global Compact, through which we continuously develop our workplace safety culture. During respect the principle that businesses should uphold 2016, we have focused on enhancing and implementing our freedom of association and recognise the right to collective management process for priority substances, and developbargaining. ing our safety culture through target setting, training and We expect our suppliers to respect these same princicommunications measures. For more information see ples and commit to the Kemira Code of Conduct for indicators G4-PR1 for product stewardship and G4-LA6 for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors when conducting workplace safety. business with us. To address the area of business relationships, in 2016, To increase Kemira employees’ awareness of their we made a decision to initate 3rd party due diligence rights regarding freedom of association and collective project to define a harmonized process for selecting and bargaining, we review and update the Code of Conduct, and managing relationships with distributors and agents. We provide regular training. All Kemira employees are given a already have an extensive program covering our supplier personal copy of the Code of Conduct. relationship management. In 2016, Kemira did not identify any violations of We have also organized training on human rights for all freedom of association or collective bargaining in our own employees who are responsible for ensuring that human operations. Sinced 2014 we have conducted 117 sustainrights are respected in our business relationships and in ability assessments of our key suppliers, representing our own operations. The target group covered a total of approximately 25% of our total spend, and no evidence has 2,850 employees. By the end of 2016, 75% of the targeted been found to indicate that suppliers would be restricting employees had completed the training (80% by the end of their employees’ opportunities to exercise freedom of 2015). Human rights training is also a compulsory part of association and collective bargaining. the induction training given to all new employees in the As no risks relating to violations were identified either target group. Kemira also provides all employees training within Kemira or in our supply chain, no specific support on the importance of our Code of Conduct to enhance measures were taken. For additional information, see the awareness of compliance issues including human rights. Responsible business practices section for details of our Code of Conduct training and Kemira’s Ethics and Compliance Hotline, which provides an internal channel for reporting any violations of employees’ rights. Details of the numbers of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are given under G4-11. 38 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 3.5 SOCIETY • Each Kemira site has a program and contingency plan in place to ensure the safety of surrounding communisociety indicators ties. This is done in close cooperation with local MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES environmental authorities. To enhance the safe use of G4-SO1: PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS chemicals, Kemira works in close cooperation with WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY many local chemical agencies. ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS For complementary information, see chapter Responsibility towards local communities. Our dialogue with local communities is aimed to understand and implement activities that respond to local needs, concerns and expectations, and to provide opportunities G4-SO2: OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT for our own employees to participate in local community ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS initiatives. ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES OUR LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND Oil spill at the Joutseno site, Finland. In May, 2016, an oil DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS spill occurred during maintenance operations at the FC We encourage initiatives that support positive interaction Power hydrogen power plant located in the Kemira’s with the communities where we operate. Our global industrial site in Joutseno, Finland. The FC Power hydrogen guidance is to focus our sponsorships and donations to plant is owned by Leppäkosken sähkö (66%) and Kemira education related programs in chemistry and technology, (34%). Approximately 1,000 liters of lubricant oil leaked in mainly addressed to children and youth. In 2016, the to the lake Saimaa. Most of the oil was collected and the largest sponsorships and donations included a EUR possible environmental impact was evaluated to be low. 200,000 donation to Åbo Akademi University (Finland), and The evaluation was conducted together with the local fire a sponsorship of the Gadolin Chemistrylab at Helsinki and rescue department and environmental authorities. The University (Finland) aimed to support the positive image of authorities continue to follow the possible effects on the chemistry for pupils and students aged from 7 to 20. We lake´s ecosystem, and we are supporting their work. There also have collaboration and partnerships with universities, have been a few inquiries about compensation for the for example with the Georgia Institute of Technology in the damages, and those will be handled by FC Power. The root US. Locally we engage with communities in many ways, for cause analysis has been conducted and review of similar example we support education related to water and locations has been done to avoid same type of incident to chemistry, charity work with selected target group or happen again in our operations. arrange open-house events to the neigborhoods. In 2016, Fire at the Äetsä site, Finland. In April 2016, a fire Kemira organized approximately 40 local community started in our sodium chlorate site in Äetsä in one of the activities. three chlorate production lines. Our employees quickly brought the fire under control in record time together with OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS the local fire department. There were no reported personMost of Kemira’s manufacturing sites are located in nel injuries or environmental damage. All the fire fighting industrial parks that are designed for the purpose of water and other contaminants were successfully collected industrial development, and only a few sites are located from the damaged area to a safe location. close to residential areas. Environmental impact assessments and systematic process risk assessment of our MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION operations are conducted at every manufacturing site in G4-SO3: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF alignment of our EHSQ management system. We conduct OPERATIONS ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED assessments at every manufacturing site, as defined in TO CORRUPTION AND THE SIGNIFICANT RISKS regulatory requirements, the ISO 14001 management IDENTIFIED system and our own internal standards. In 2016, Kemira conducted an ethics & compliance risk • Each Kemira site is classified for hazard risks of assessment, consisting of internal survey, key management operations based on the results of process risk evaluainterviews and workshops covering key business operation. Our internal requirements for the degree of tions and functions in all regions. In addition, corruption environmental and process safety management and risk has also been one element in the interviews conducted audit frequency for each site are based on the hazard with key management as part of developing the Kemira ranking level: higher ranking meaning higher requireinternal audit plan for 2017. Based on the revenue generments. In 2016, 15 out of 66 manufacturing sites ated in locations subject to internal audit in 2016, approxi(operating during 2016) were classified as high-hazard mately 90% of the legal entities were audited, including sites. certain risks related to corruption. No significant risks related to corruption were identified through ethics & compliance risk assessment, management interviews or internal audits in 2016. 2016 39 GRI DISCLOSURES G4-SO4: COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND G4-SO7: TOTAL NUMBER OF LEGAL ACTIONS PROCEDURES FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTITRUST, society indicators AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES AND THEIR Kemira’s principles for anti-corruption are included in the OUTCOMES Kemira Code of Conduct and in the Kemira Group Gifts, Entertainment and Anti-Bribery Policy. Both documents are Kemira was a defendant in two legal proceedings in which available to all employees on Kemira intranet, and the Code damages were sought for violations of competition law, on of Conduct is also publicly available at www.kemira.com. the basis of events which occurred before year 2000. These We expect our suppliers and other business partners to proceedings are described in the Note 29 to the Consoliconduct their business with integrity and commit to Kemira dated Financial Statements: Commitments and contingent Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors liabilities, under heading Litigation. (CoC-SDA) in their business activities with Kemira. The Several class action suits have been filed 2015–16 in CoC-SDA states that Kemira expects its business partners the United States based on alleged violation of antitrust to adhere to local legislation and avoid corruption in all its laws relating to sale of certain water treatment chemicals. forms. In some of those claims, Kemira has been named as a Kemira provides mandatory Anti-Bribery training to the defendant among other defendants. According to Kemira’s selected personnel groups, who need to have comprehenassessment, these law suits against Kemira lack merit. sive understanding on Kemira’s anti-corruption principles. In 2016, Kemira had no other pending or completed Employee awareness of anti-corruption matters is also legal actions initiated under national or international laws employed through our Code of Conduct training, which is designed for regulating anti-competitive behavior, antimandatory to all of our employees. Anti-corruption princitrust, or monopoly practices. ples are also elaborated in the face-to-face compliance training sessions, which are organized in selected locaMATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE tions. G4-SO8: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NONMONETARYSANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE G4-SO5: CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonThere were no confirmed incidents of corruption or public compliance with laws and regulations came to Kemira's legal cases regarding corruption in 2016. attention in 2016. This is based on the information available through our Group legal department, Group Finance MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY and Administration and the Environmental, Health, Safety G4-SO6: TOTAL VALUE OF POLITICAL and Quality organization. CONTRIBUTIONS BY COUNTRY AND RECIPIENT/ BENEFICIARY MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY The Kemira Code of Conduct, Kemira Group Sponsorship G4-SO11: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT and Donation policy and the Kemira Group Gifts, EntertainIMPACTS ON SOCIETY FILED, ADDRESSED, AND ment and Anti-Bribery Policy prohibit any financial support RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE to politicians, political parties or political organizations. No MECHANISMS financial or in-kind political contributions paid by Kemira have come to Kemira's attention during 2016. There were no grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms in 2016, nor grievances filed prior and resolved in 2016. 40 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 3.6 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Priority substance management is a key process in our proactive management of safe use of chemicals PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS • Priority substances include substances with especially MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY harmful / hazardous properties, substances that are G4-PR1: PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT included in selected regulatory schemes with the PRODUCT AND SERVICE CATEGORIES FOR anticipation of stricter regulation in the future, and WHICH HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS ARE substances which are otherwise controversial or the ASSESSED FOR IMPROVEMENT focus of stakeholders’ concern. • Kemira priority substance list contains substances All our products need to comply with all applicable chemifrom our product portfolio which we have proactively cal regulatory requirements in the countries where we identified and prioritized since they may pose a risk in manufacture and/or sell chemicals. Assessments examinour value chain. We identify and follow relevant ing regulatory compliance, human health impacts, safety regulatory schemes and the requirements of nonissues and environmental protection aspects all form part regulatory stakeholders. We screen the long list of of our Product Lifecycle Management processes. Our New substances against available raw material composiProduct Development (NPD) process also involves regular tions and sales product compositions, and then sustainability, product safety and regulatory compliance prioritize the substances by revenue or raw material reviews at every stage of the process, as well as a final spend, assigning experts to evaluate the validity of review before market launch. potential concerns. • Our priority substance management plan aims to define the specific risks associated to each substance, PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AS PART OF OUR examine options for managing these specific risks, and PRODUCT LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT formulate action plans for the preferred options. These options may include substitution, replacement or Product stewardship is the key pillar in the Responsible changes in the product information provided for users Care program, a voluntary initiative undertaken by the in our value chain. global chemical industry (through the International Council of Chemical Associations, ICCA), which Kemira is committed to. Product stewardship goes beyond regulatory PRODUCT REGULATORY COMPLIANCE compliance, which itself sets tight controls on the manufacture and sale of chemicals. Product stewardship in The manufacturing and sale of chemicals are widely practice means proactive management to ensure that regulated around the world. Chemicals are regulated at chemicals are used safely, to protect the environment and multiple levels, including: human health. This is a fundamental pre-requisite for 1) Regional and country-specific inventories and subconducting our business. Product stewardship provides a stance registrations, such as the Toxic Substances platform that helps us to identify risks at an early stage Control Act (TSCA) in the USA, the China Existing and manage those risks along the value chain. This also Chemical Inventory (IECSC), and the EU’s REACH helps us to focus our product and process development Regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and efforts in areas where our positive impacts on safety and Restriction of Chemicals). sustainability along the value chain will be greatest. 2) Regulations related to hazard communication, includKemira’s Product Stewardship Policy was approved by ing chemical classification, labeling and safety data the Management Board during 2016, defining minimum sheet requirements. requirements for our operations to ensure that our prod3) End use or application-specific regulations such as ucts can be safely used by our stakeholders, and that food contact regulations, biocide regulations and chemical risks and their impacts are incorporated in off-shore chemicals notification schemes. decision making relating to our operations, the implemen4) Operational and site-specific requirements related to tation of our strategy, and our long-term strategic developrules and procedures such as environmental permits ment. Key activities for implementing the policy include the for specific operations, and workplace health and identification of prioritity substances and the preparation safety regulations. of management plans for each of these substances. Key activities relating to regulatory compliance conducted in 2016: • We have continued to prepare for the remaining REACH registrations in the EU, in order to meet our obligations before the third and final transitional registration deadline in 2018. • We are preparing to register our chemicals so as to comply also with Korea’s REACH requirements. • We have started to make substance registrations and continued to prepare registrations required under the EU Biocidal Products Regulation. 2016 41 GRI DISCLOSURES • Actions have been taken in relation to the United MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Nations’ Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for classifiG4-PR3: TYPE OF PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION REQUIRED BY THE PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS cation and labeling of chemicals, including the due implementation of new classifications with new safety ORGANIZATION'S PROCEDURES FOR PRODUCT data sheets and labels in Canada, in advance of the AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND LABELING, deadline of 31st May 2017. AND PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT • Product regulatory compliance audits are conducted AND SERVICE CATEGORIES SUBJECT TO SUCH regularly at our manufacturing sites. INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS Kemira’s product portfolio contains 7 major product lines G4-PR2: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF and approximately 2,400 different products. All of these NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND products are duly documented and labeled according to VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING THE HEALTH legal requirements, including the identification of their AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND hazardous components and information on their safe use. SERVICES DURING THEIR LIFE CYCLE, BY TYPE Kemira provides Safety Data Sheets for all products, OF OUTCOMES although in most jurisdictions Safety Data Sheets are mandatory only for hazardous products. In addition to the In 2016, Kemira did not record any cases of non-compliinformation provided on product labels and Safety Data ance with regulations and voluntary codes resulting in any Sheets, more detailed information about products and fine, penalty or warning. their raw material ingredients can be provided on request. In 2016, the Kemira Product Stewardship & Regulatory Affairs team responded to approximately 7,700 (8,770 in 2015 and 5,400 in 2014) requests concerning product safety and/or regulatory compliance from customers around the world. G4-PR3: PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION PROVIDED Topic Product and service information provided Sourcing of components of the Only if requested by customers product or service Content, particularly with regard As required by law, always in Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and on product labels. Additional information to substances that might have compiled about chemicals in our products for voluntary certification/compliance schemes such as environmental or social impacts ecolabeling is also provided to customers on request, when applicable. Safe use of the product or service Details of how to use a product or service safely are provided in SDS’s and on product labels. Additional information about usage, dosage and applications is provided to customers when applicable. Disposal of the product and Whenever legally required, information on the disposal of a product and the related environmental/social environmental/social impacts impacts is provided in the SDS’s and on product labels. G4-PR4: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND G4-PR6: SALE OF BANNED OR DISPUTED VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING PRODUCT PRODUCTS AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND LABELING, BY TYPE OF OUTCOMES As stated in our Code of conduct, Kemira complies with law, including chemical laws and regulations, and we do Customer complaints, claims and non-conformities are not sell any banned products. We continuously screen actively monitored, evaluated and corrected as required by substances that are covered by any regulatory restrictions, the quality management system in use at Kemira. or subject to substitution requirements imposed by During 2016, a total of 93 (72) customer complaints non-regulatory stakeholders. We proactively work to were recorded relating to labeling, of which 63 cases were mitigate health, safety, environmental and image-related in the EMEA region, 23 in the Americas, and 7 in the APAC risks. See also indicator G4-PR1. region. Wrong label or wrong information on label was the most frequent reason for a customer complaint. Corrective MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT COMPLIANCE actions planned for 14 cases were underway at the year G4-PR9: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT end. FINES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND In late 2016, a total of 3 (4) incidents related to nonREGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PROVISION compliance with regulations were reported. The handling of AND USE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES all cases was ongoing by the year end. During 2016, no incidents of non-compliance with During 2016, Kemira was not accused of any regulatory regulations resulting in any fine, penalty or warning were non-compliances resulting in fines. reported within Kemira’s operations. 42 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES G4-17: ENTITIES INCLUDED IN THE 4 REPORTING ORGANIZATION'S CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reporting Principles PRINCIPLES The reporting boundaries mainly follow the reporting boundaries of Kemira’s Consolidated Financial Statements. The reporting boundaries and the completeness of the information is provided in the table Reporting scope 4.1 REPORTING FRAMEWORK AND (G4-19, G4-20, and G4-21). The entities included in Kemira’s Consolidated Financial Statements are listed in the DISCLOSURES Consolidated Financial Statement: Note 33; Group companies. The GRI disclosures are part of the Kemira Annual Report 2016, and is prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. Some of G4-18: PROCESS FOR DEFINING GRI REPORT the General Standard Disclosures or Specific Standard CONTENT AND ASPECT BOUNDARIES Disclosures according to the GRI G4 Guidelines are reported in other sections of Kemira’s Annual Report 2016: The selection of material aspects reported in the section i.e. in its Business Overview, Corporate Governance Performance disclosures was carried out in accordance Statement or Financial Statement. with the GRI G4 Principles for defining report content. • The requirements of the EU Directive 2014/95/EU disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by 1. IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL ASPECTS large public-interest entities are partially reflected in Material aspects relevant to Kemira have been identified Kemira’s GRI disclosures 2016. on the basis of the topics and concerns raised by our • Communication on Progress (COP) in relation to the UN stakeholders. Our stakeholder expectations were most Global Compact’s Ten Principles is included in the recently reviewed in 2015. Business Overview and this GRI disclosures. 2. PRIORITIZATION OF MATERIAL ASPECTS The GRI Content Index refers both to the GRI-G4 indicators The identified topics were matched against 46 material for actions to implement the UN Global Compact, and to aspects in the GRI subject list and were prioritized with the disclosure requirements of EU Directive 2014/95/EU. reference to their relative importance to stakeholders, and Kemira’s Board of Directors reviewed and approved the to their relevance to Kemira’s strategy and business model, contents of our Business Overview and GRI disclosures in as well as the relevance of sustainability topics to the February 2017. Deloitte & Touche Oy has independently global chemical sector as a whole. The procedure identified assured the contents related to our economic, environmen36 material aspects as duly meeting these criteria, and tal and social performance against the GRI principles for which were selected for our reporting purposes. report content and quality. 3. VALIDATION Data collection practices for the selected material aspects were reviewed and defined. These aspects are listed 4.2 REPORTING SCOPE together with the respective aspect boundaries and data collection practices in table G4-19–21. Aspect boundaries for the selected material aspects were defined to reflect G4-13: SIGNIFICANT CHANGES DURING THE whether the impacts occur within or outside of entities REPORTING PERIOD owned by Kemira. According to Kemira’s consolidation rules, all entities owned by the company during the At the end of 2016, Kemira operated 63 (64 in 2015) reporting year are included. manufacturing sites. During 2016, Kemira closed 2 manuThe identified material aspects provide a balanced facturing sites, Zaramillo in Spain and Ottawa in Canada. A representation of Kemira’s corporate responsibility focus smaller site Flix in Spain is integrated into Tarragona site. areas, which are: Responsible business practices; SustainOrtigueira manufacturing site in Brazil was started in April. able products and solutions; Responsibility towards our Our environmental reporting scope included 66 (67) employees; Responsibility in our supply chain; Responsible manufacturing sites owned by Kemira Oyj and subsidiaries. manufacturing; and Responsibility towards the local See the Consolidated Financial statements, note 32. communities we operate in. There were no significant changes in our company size, structure or ownership or along our supply chains in terms 4. REVIEW of the locations of material and service suppliers, or our Our Management Board annually discusses and approves selection or termination of suppliers. A decision was made our corporate responsibility performance and targets. to outsource external road transportation management activities to Odyssey, starting in 2017. 2016 43 GRI DISCLOSURES G4-19–21 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND ASPECT BOUNDARIES G4-20: Aspect G4-21: Aspect Reporting Principles boundaries within boundaries G4-19: Identified material aspects Kemira outside Kemira Data collection practices CATEGORY: ECONOMIC • Economic performance Kemira’s Data is extracted from Kemira’s Enterprise Resource Planning operations* (ERP) system and collected from Kemira consolidated companies. Consolidation on the Group level. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT • Materials Kemira’s operaData is extracted from Kemira’s ERP system and from our R&D and • Products and services tions as covered by New Product Development process documentation. • Transport our ERP** • Energy (Scopes1 and 2) Kemira’s Data is collected from each production site and consolidated on • Water manufacturing the Group level. • Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) sites*** • Effluents and waste • Compliance • Environmental expenses and investments • Emissions (Scope 3) Kemira value Data is collected from Kemira’s ERP system and the relevant chain from organizational units. Default data and assumptions are as in suppliers to the WBCSD Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate customers Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. • Supplier Environmental Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool used to track suppliers’ Assessments signing of our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors. Ecovadis database for supplier sustainability assessment. • Environmental Grievance Kemira’s External Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. External notifications Mechanism operations* stakeholders collected from responsibility@kemira.com. CATEGORY: SOCIAL Labor practices and decent work • Employment Kemira’s HR data management system. • Labor/management relations operations* To some extent Kemira uses workers and employees who are • Occupational health and safety**** supervised by our contractors, but the related information • Training and education is managed locally at respective sites, and not collected and • Diversity and equal opportunity consolidated globally. • Equal remuneration for women and men • Supplier Assessments for Labor Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool used to track suppliers’ Practices signing of our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors. • Labor Practices Grievance Kemira’s External Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. Mechanism operations* stakeholders Human rights • Non-discrimination Kemira’s Notifications through Compliance & Ethics Hotline and • Freedom of association and operations* responsibility@kemira.com. collective bargaining • Human Rights Assessments • Supplier Human Rights Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool used to track suppliers’ signing Assessments of our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors. • Human Rights Grievance Kemira’s External Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. Mechanism operations* stakeholders External notifications collected from responsibility@kemira.com. Society • Local communities Kemira’s Data is collected from each region, from Kemira’s legal archive, and • Anti-corruption operations* through notifications from Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. • Public policy • Anti-competitive behavior • Compliance • Supplier Assessment for Impacts Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool used to track suppliers’ on Society signing of Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors. • Grievance Mechanism for Impacts Kemira’s External Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. on Society operations* stakeholders External notifications collected from responsibility@Kemira.com. Product responsibility • Customer health and safety Kemira’s Data is extracted from Kemira’s ERP system, from R&D and New • Product and service labeling operations Product Development process documentation, and from Kemira’s • Marketing communication covered by ERP legal archives. • Compliance * Kemira’s operations = all operations covered by Kemira’s consolidation rules. ** Kemira’s operations covered by ERP = all operations covered by both Kemira’s consolidation rules and the company’s Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP). *** Kemira’s manufacturing sites = all manufacturing sites covered by Kemira’s consolidation rules. **** Occupational health & safety: total recordable incident (TRI) figures also cover contractors working at Kemira sites. 44 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES G4-22: EFFECTS OF ANY RESTATEMENTS 4.3 REPORT PROFILE OF INFORMATION PROVIDED IN PREVIOUS REPORTS, AND THE REASONS FOR SUCH Reporting Principles RESTATEMENTS. G4-28: REPORTING PERIOD In 2016 report, there were no major restatements of The reporting period is from 1 January to 31 December information provided in previous reports. 2016. G4-23: SIGNIFICANT CHANGES FROM PREVIOUS G4-29: DATE OF THE MOST RECENT PREVIOUS REPORTING PERIODS IN THE SCOPE AND REPORT ASPECT BOUNDARIES Kemira's previous Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 There are no significant changes from previous reporting was published on 26 February 2016. periods in the reporting scope and aspect boundaries. Our first annual report prepared according to the GRI guidelines was published for the reporting year 2011. Prior to 2010 we used the Responsible Care Reporting Guidelines of the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) as a reporting framework to report on our environmental performance since the early 1990s. Reports for the years 2003–2016 are available on Kemira’s website www.kemira. com. G4-30: REPORTING CYCLE Kemira’s annual report is published annually by calendar year. The annual report consist of Business overview, GRI disclosures, Corporate governance statement and Financial statements. G4-31: CONTACT POINT FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING THE REPORT If you have any questions regarding this report or its contents, please contact Kemira Communications and Corporate Responsibility. Contact details are available at www.kemira.com. 2016 45 GRI DISCLOSURES ASSURANCE PROVIDER’S RESPONSIBILITY 5 ASSURANCE REPORT Assurance Report Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Responsibility Information based on our engagement. We conducted our assurance engagement in INDEPENDENT LIMITED accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) to provide limited ASSURANCE REPORT assurance on performance data and statements within the Responsibility Information. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical G4-33: POLICY AND CURRENT PRACTICE WITH requirements and plan and perform the assurance engageREGARD TO SEEKING EXTERNAL ASSURANCE ment to obtain limited assurance whether any matters FOR THE REPORT come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Responsibility Information has not been prepared, in all Information on the organization’s policy and current material respects, in accordance with the Reporting practice with regard to external assurance can be found in criteria. the Assurance statement. We did not perform any assurance procedures on the prospective information, such as targets, expectations and ambitions, disclosed in the Responsibility Information. Consequently, we draw no conclusion on the prospective TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS information. Our assurance report is made in accordance with the terms of our engagement with Kemira. We do not OF KEMIRA OYJ accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Kemira for our work, for this assurance report, or for the We have been engaged by Kemira Oyj (hereafter Kemira) to conclusions we have reached. provide a limited assurance on Kemira’s corporate responA limited assurance engagement with respect to sibility information for the reporting period of January 1, responsibility related data involves performing procedures 2016 to December 31, 2016. The information subject to the to obtain evidence about the Responsibility Information. assurance engagement is the Kemira GRI Report and The procedures performed depend on the practitioner’s corporate responsibility information disclosed in the judgment, but their nature is different from, and their Kemira Business Overview section in the Annual Report extent is less than, a reasonable assurance engagement. It (hereafter: Responsibility Information). does not include detailed testing of source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls and consequently they do not enable us to obtain the MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY assurance necessary to become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance Management is responsible for the preparation of the engagement. Sustainability Information in accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out in Kemira’s reporting principles on pages 43–45 of the GRI report and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the Global Reporting Initiative. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the Sustainability Information that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, selecting and applying appropriate criteria and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. 46 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES Our procedures on this engagement included: CONCLUSION • Conducting interviews with senior management Assurance Report responsible for corporate responsibility at Kemira to On the basis of the procedures we have performed, nothing gain an understanding of Kemira’s targets for corporate has come to our attention that causes us to believe that responsibility as part of the business strategy and the information subject to the assurance engagement is operations; not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with • Reviewing internal and external documentation to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the verify to what extent these documents and data Global Reporting Initiative or that the Responsibility support the information included in the Responsibility Information is not reliable, in all material respects, with Information and evaluating whether the information regard to the Reporting criteria. presented in the Responsibility Information is in line Our assurance statement should be read in conjunction with our overall knowledge of corporate responsibility with the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness at Kemira; for responsibility information. • Conducting interviews with employees responsible for the collection and reporting of the Responsibility Helsinki 8.2.2017 Information and reviewing of the processes and Deloitte & Touche Oy systems for data gathering, including the aggregation of the data for the Responsibility Information; Jukka Vattulainen Lasse Ingström • Performing analytical review procedures and testing Authorized Public Authorized Public data on a sample basis to assess the reasonability of Accountant Accountant the presented responsibility information; • Performing site visits to San Giorgio in Italy and Nanjing in China to review compliance to reporting policies, to assess the reliability of the responsibility data reporting process as well as to test the data collected for responsibility reporting purposes on a sample basis; • Assessing that the Responsibility Information has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the Global Reporting Initiative. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. OUR INDEPENDENCE, QUALITY CONTROL AND COMPETENCES We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies which address and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements of the International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants in their role as independent assurance providers and in particular preclude us from taking financial, commercial, governance and ownership positions which might affect, or be perceived to affect, our independence and impartiality and from any involvement in the preparation of the report. We have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year and there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair our independence and objectivity. Deloitte & Touche Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including assurance and sustainability expertise with professional qualifications. Our team is experienced in providing sustainability reporting assurance. 2016 47 GRI DISCLOSURES 6 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index BR = Business Report GRI = GRI report • The report is prepared in accordance with the GRI-G4 Core option. GS = Corporate Governance Statement • Communication on Progress (COP) of the UN Global Compact at FS = Financial Statements Global Compact Active level using the GRI G4 reporting principles. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Standard disclosures (pp) Principles STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about relevance of BO 4–7 Commitement sustainability to the organization and its strategy to GC G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities BO 32–33 GRI 15–17 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the reporting organization Kemira Oyj G4-4 Primary brands, products and services BO 20–31 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Helsinki, Finland G4-6 Countries of operation BO 2–3, 19 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form BO 1 G4-8 Markets served with geographic breakdown BO 2–3, 19 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization BO 2–3, FS 33 G4-10 Workforce structure by emplyment type, gender and region GRI 31–32 Principle 6 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI 32 Principle 3 G4-12 Description of organization's supply chain GRI 10–11 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period GRI 43, FS note 32 G4-14 Position regarding the precautionary principle and its application GS, FS G4-15 Adherance to charters, principles and other external initiatives BO 6, GRI 14 G4-16 Memberships of associations and advocacy organizations GRI 15 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements FS note 33 G4-18 Process for determining the report content GRI 43 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content GRI 44 G4-20 Boundaries of material aspects outside the organization GRI 44 G4-21 Boundaries of material aspects within the organization GRI 44 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for GRI 45 such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries GRI 45 48 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global GRI Content Index Annual Report Compact Standard disclosures (pp) Principles STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. GRI 15 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders GRI 15 G4-26 Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement GRI 15 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how GRI 15 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided GRI 45 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report GRI 45 G4-30 Reporting cycle GRI 45 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents GRI 45 G4-32 GRI content index. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI 48 G4-33 Policy and practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report GRI 46 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS GOVERNANCE (see also Corporate governance statement) Governance Structure and Composition G4-34 Governance structure of the organization GRI 20 G4-36 Executive-level position with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics GRI 20 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct GRI 5 and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and GRI 5 matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful GRI 5 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH For Kemira´s Description of Management Approach (DMA), please see: • Our management approach, GRI pp 14–20 • Focus areas, GRI pp 4–14 • Economic impact, GRI pp 21–22 • Governance, GS; GRI pp 5, 20 2016 49 GRI DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed​ GRI 21–22 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations GRI 22 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government​ GRI 22 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI 23 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials GRI 23 Principle 8 Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization GRI 24 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity GRI 24 Principle 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption GRI 24 Principle 8, 9 Aspect: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source GRI 27 Principle 7,8 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused GRI 27 Principle 8 Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GRI 25 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 25 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) GRI 25–26 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity GRI 25 Principle 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GRI 25 Principle 8,9 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) GRI 26 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions GRI 26 Principle 7, 8 Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination GRI 27 Principle 8 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method GRI 28 Principle 8 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills GRI 28 Principle 8 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the GRI 28 Principle 8 terms of the Basel Convention (2) Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services GRI 29 Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category GRI 29 Principle 8 Aspect: Environmental compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonGRI 30 Principle 8 compliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials GRI 30 Principle 8 for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Aspect: Overall environmental spend G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type GRI 30 Principle 7, 8, 9 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria GRI 10 Principle 8 Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through GRI 6 Principle 8 formal grievance mechanisms 50 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender GRI 32–33 Principle 6 and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time GRI 34 employees, by significant locations of operation Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are GRI 34 Principle 3 specified in collective agreements Aspect:Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and GRI 36 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category GRI 35 Principle 6 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued GRI 35 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by GRI 35 Principle 6 gender and by employee category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category GRI 36 Principle 6 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by GRI 37 Principle 6 significant locations of operation Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria GRI 10 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal GRI 6 grievance mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 38 Principle 6 Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association GRI 38 Principle 3 and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews GRI 38 Principle 1 or impact assessments Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria GRI 10 Principle 2 Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through GRI 6 Principle 1 formal grievance mechanisms 2016 51 GRI DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles SOCIETY Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact GRI 39 Principle 1 assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities GRI 39 Principle 1 Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks related to corruption and the GRI 39 Principle 10 significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 40 Principle 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI 40 Principle 10 Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary GRI 40 Principle 10 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly GRI 40 practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonGRI 40 compliance with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society GRI 10 Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through GRI 6 formal grievance mechanisms PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety GRI 11 impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes GRI 42 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for GRI 42 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes GRI 42 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products GRI 42 Aspect: Product compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI 42 concerning the provision and use of products and services 52 2016 GRI DISCLOSURES 7 LINKING KEMIRA'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AND THE EU DIRECTIVE 2014/95/EU ON NONLINKAGE TO EU DIRECTIVE FINANCIAL AND DIVERSITY DISCLOSURES Kemira Annual Report 2016 EU Directive EU Directive Policies, outcome of policies, principal GRI 4 indicators in GRI Disclosure elements Content of disclosure elements related risks (page in BO or GRI) disclosures GENERAL DISCLOSURES Description of business model BO page 9, GRI page 17 External assurance GRI page 46 DIVERSITY Description of our diversity policy in relation Diversity Principles of Board of to our Board of Directors Directors at www.kemira.com ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Use of materials GRI 14–20 EN 1–2 Use of renewable and/or non-renewable GRI 12–20 EN 3, 5, 6 energy Greenhouse gas emissions GRI 12–20 EN 15–19 Air pollution GRI 14–20 EN 20 Water use GRI 14–20 EN 8, 10 Land use and biodiversity GRI 43 Not reported based on the materiality analysis SOCIAL MATTERS Dialogue with local communities GRI 14–20 SO 1–2 Actions taken to ensure the protection and GRI 14–20 SO 1–2 the development of those communities EMPLOYEE MATTERS Actions taken to ensure gender equality GRI 8–9, GRI 14–20 LA 12–13 Implementation of fundamental conventions GRI 8–9, GRI 14–20 HR 3–4 of the International Labour Organisation Working conditions GRI 8–9, GRI 14–20 LA 6, 14, 16 Social dialogue (stakeholder engagement) GRI 14–20 24–27 Respect for the right of workers to be GRI 8–9, GRI 14–20 LA4 informed and consulted Respect for trade union rights GRI 8–9, GRI 14–20 HR 4 Health and safety at work GRI 8–9, GRI 14–20 LA 6 Diversity of competences and views of the GRI 8–9, GRI 14–20 LA 12 members of administrative, management and supervisory bodies, for instance age, gender and educational and professional backgrounds HUMAN RIGHTS MATTERS Prevention of human rights abuses GRI 5–6, GRI 14–20 HR 9–10, 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY MATTERS Instruments in place to fight corruption and GRI 5–6, GRI 14–20 SO 3–5, 11 bribery 2016 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2016 Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2016 3 GROUP MANAGEMENT 9 KEMIRA REMUNERATION STATEMENT 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT website www.kemira.com > Investors > Corporate governCORPORATE ance > Annual General Meeting. GOVERNANCE NOMINATION BOARD STATEMENT 2016 The 2012 Annual General Meeting decided to establish a Nomination Board consisting of the shareholders or the GENERAL representatives of the shareholders to prepare annually a proposal for the next AGM concerning the composition and Kemira Oyj’s corporate governance is based on the Articles remuneration of the Board of Directors. of Association, the Finnish Companies Act and Nasdaq The Nomination Board consists of the representatives Helsinki Ltd.'s rules and regulations on listed companies. of the four largest shareholders of Kemira Oyj based on the Kemira complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance situation on August 31 preceding the AGM, and the ChairCode, which is publicly available at www.cgfinland.fi. man of Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors acts as an expert This statement is presented separately from the annual member. The members of the Nomination Board shall elect report by the Board of Directors. Kemira’s Audit Committee a Chairman at the first meeting of the Board. has reviewed the Corporate Governance Statement, and The Nomination Board has a charter that defines more the Company’s Auditor, Deloitte & Touche Oy, has checked precisely the process to elect its members and chairman that the statement has been issued and that the descripas well as its tasks and meeting routines. tion of the main features of the internal control and risk The Nomination Board will meet at least two times a management related to the financial reporting process year, with authority to convene additional meetings, as included in the statement is consistent with the Financial circumstances require. The members present at the Statements. meeting shall constitute a quorum if at least three of the members are present at the meeting. As of August 31, 2016, the members of the Nomination MANAGEMENT BODIES Board are Pekka Paasikivi, Chairman of the Board of Oras Invest Oy, Kari Järvinen, Managing Director of Solidium Oy, The Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors and the Reima Rytsölä, Executive Vice President, Varma Mutual Managing Director are responsible for Kemira’s managePension Insurance Company, Timo Ritakallio, President & ment and operations. Their tasks are defined based on the CEO, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company, and Finnish Companies Act and Kemira’s Articles of Associathe Chairman of the Board Jari Paasikivi as an expert tion. member. During the reporting period, Risto Murto, President & CEO of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company, was a member of the Nomination Board, until September 5, SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING 2017. The Nomination Board met two times in 2016 with an Kemira Oyj’s shareholders’ meeting, or the General attendance rate of 100%. Each member’s participation in Meeting, the Company’s highest decision-making body, is the Nomination Board meetings was as follows: held at least once a year. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held each year by the end of May. The AGM Järvinen 2/2 100% makes decisions on matters within its competence under Murto 1/1 100% the Companies Act and the Articles of Association, such as J. Paasikivi 2/2 100% the adoption of the financial statements and dividend P. Paasikivi 2/2 100% payout, the discharge of Board members and the Managing Ritakallio 2/2 100% Director and his Deputy from liability, the election of the Rytsölä 1/1 100% Chairman, Vice Chairman and other members of the Board of Directors and their emoluments, and the election of the auditor and the auditor’s fees. Notice to the shareholders’ meeting shall be released BOARD OF DIRECTORS on the Company’s website no earlier than two months and no later than three weeks before the meeting, however, at COMPOSITION least nine days before the record date of the meeting. The AGM elects the Chairman, Vice Chairman and other Additionally, if so decided by the Board of Directors, the members of the Board of Directors. In accordance with the Company may publish the notice to the shareholders’ Articles of Association, the Board of Directors comprises meeting in one nationwide newspaper. 4–8 members. On March 21, 2016, the Annual General Kemira Oyj’s Annual General Meeting was held in Meeting elected seven members to the Board of Directors. Helsinki on March 21, 2016. The meeting was attended by The AGM re-elected Wolfgang Büchele, Winnie Fok, Juha 509 shareholders either in person or by proxy, together Laaksonen, Timo Lappalainen, Jari Paasikivi and Kerttu representing around 60% of the shareholders’ votes. The Tuomas to the Board of Directors, and Kaisa Hietala was documents related to the AGM are available on Kemira’s elected as a new member. Jari Paasikivi was elected the 2016 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board’s Chairman and Kerttu Tuomas was elected the Vice and approving corporate policies in key management Chairman. All of the Board members are independent of the control areas, approving the Company’s organizational Company except for Wolfgang Büchele who has been the structure and appointing the Managing Director, his Deputy Managing Director of Kemira Oyj as of April 1, 2012 until and members of the Management Board. The Board of April 30, 2014. The Board members are also independent of Directors approves the Company’s capital investment significant shareholders of the Company except for the policy and major investments, acquisitions and divestChairman Jari Paasikivi. Jari Paasikivi is the CEO of Oras ments. It also approves the group treasury policy and major Invest Oy and Oras Invest Oy owns over 10% of Kemira Oyj’s long term loans and guarantees issued by the Company. shares. The personal information concerning the members The Board’s duties include ensuring that the Company of the Board of Directors can be found in the section Group has adequate planning, information and control systems Management and their holdings can be found under the and resources for monitoring result and managing risks in heading Insiders. operations. The Board of Directors monitors and evaluates the performance of Managing Director, his Deputy and PRINCIPLES CONCERNING THE DIVERSITY OF members of the Management Board and decides upon their THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS remuneration and benefits. The Board’s duty is to ensure The Board of Directors has adopted the following principles continuation of the business operations by succession and targets concerning the diversity of the Board of planning for key persons. The Board defines and approves Directors. the main principles for the incentive bonus systems within When designing the composition of the Board of the Company. Directors, the Nomination Board of the company assesses The Board of Directors also manages other tasks within the Board composition from the viewpoint of the company’s its competence under the Companies Act. It is responsible current and future business needs, while taking into for the due organization of the supervision of the Comaccount the diversity of the Board. pany’s accounting and asset-liability management. The The diversity of the Board of Directors will be assessed Board of Directors sees to it that the Company’s financial from various viewpoints. Kemira's Board of Directors shall statements give a true and fair view of the Company’s have sufficient and complementary experience and affairs and that the consolidated financial statements are expertise in the key industries and markets relevant to prepared under the International Financial Reporting Kemira’s business. In addition, an essential element is the Standards (IFRS) and the parent company’s financial personal characteristics of the members and their diverstatements under the acts and regulations in force in sity. Finland (FAS). The Board of Directors’ meetings discuss the The company’s aim is that the Board of Directors Company’s profit performance at monthly level. The Board represent diverse expertise in different industries and of Directors discusses the Company’s audit with the markets, diverse professional and educational background, auditor. The Board of Directors evaluates its performance diverse age distribution and both genders. The objective is and working methods on an annual basis. that both genders are represented in the Board by at least In 2016, the Board of Directors met 11 times. The two members. average attendance rate at the meetings was 98.7%. Each The current Board of Directors of the company complies director’s attendance in the meetings was as follows: with the company’s diversity targets. Versatile expertise from various industries and markets is represented in the Büchele 10/11 90.9% Board of Directors, as well as various professional and Fok 11/11 100% educational backgrounds. The ages of the directors vary Hietala 10/10 100% between 45 and 64 years. Four of the directors are male Laaksonen 11/11 100% and three are female. Lappalainen 11/11 100% Paasikivi 11/11 100% TASKS AND DUTIES Tuomas 11/11 100% According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is tasked with duties within its competence under the Companies Act. It has drawn up a written Charter REMUNERATION defining its key duties and procedures. The following is a Remuneration of the Board of Directors is described in description of the essential contents of the Charter. The section Remuneration Report. Board of Directors is in charge of corporate governance and the due organization of the Company’s operations. It decides on convening and prepares the agenda for the BOARD COMMITTEES shareholders’ meeting and ensures the practical implementation of decisions taken thereby. In addition, the Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors has appointed two commitBoard of Directors decides on authorizations for representtees: the Audit Committee and the Personnel and Remuing the Company. The Board of Directors’ key duties include neration Committee. matters which, in view of the scope and type of the Company’s operations, are uncommon or involve wide-ranging AUDIT COMMITTEE effects. These include establishing the Company’s long The Audit Committee works in accordance with its Charter term goals and the main strategies for achieving them, confirmed by the Board of Directors. It is tasked to assist approving the annual business plans and budget, defining the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibili4 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT ties for financial reporting process, the system of internal ownership, and implementing the decisions taken by the control, the internal and external audit process and Board of Directors. The Managing Director reports to the Kemira’s process for monitoring compliance with laws and Board on financial affairs, the business environment and regulations and the Kemira Code of Conduct. The Commitother significant issues. The Managing Director also tee reports to the Board on each meeting. functions as the Chairman of Kemira’s Management Board. The Audit Committee consists of four members of the Kemira Oyj's Managing Director (President and CEO) is Board of Directors. Majority of the members shall be Jari Rosendal, and the Deputy Managing Director is Group independent of the company and at least one member General Counsel Jukka Hakkila. The Managing Director and shall be independent of significant shareholders. After the the Managing Director’s Deputy, including their related 2016 AGM, the Board elected Juha Laaksonen as the parties, are not involved in any substantial business Chairman and Kaisa Hietala, Timo Lappalainen and Jari relationships with the Company. Paasikivi as members of the Committee. The Audit CommitThe personal information concerning the Managing tee met five times in 2016 with an attendance rate of 100%. Director and the Managing Director’s Deputy is set forth Each member’s attendance in the Audit Committee under the section Group Management and their holdings meetings was as follows: can be found in the section Insiders. The financial benefits related to the Managing Director’s employment relationHietala 4/4 100% ship are described in a section Remuneration Report. Laaksonen 5/5 100% Lappalainen 5/5 100% Paasikivi 5/5 100% MANAGEMENT BOARD Kemira's Management Board consists of Managing PERSONNEL AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Director Jari Rosendal (President and CEO), Petri Castrén The Personnel and Remuneration Committee consists of (CFO), Heidi Fagerholm (CTO), Tarjei Johansen (President, three members out of which the majority must be indeOil & Mining and Americas), Michael Löffelmann (EVP, pendent of the Company, elected by the Board of Directors Projects and Manufacturing Technology), Kim Poulsen from amongst its members. The Board of Directors has (President, Pulp & Paper and APAC), Esa-Matti Puputti approved a Charter for the Committee, according to which (EVP, Operational Excellence), Antti Salminen (President the Committee assists the Board of Directors by preparaMunicipal & Industrial and EMEA) and Eeva Salonen (EVP, tion of matters related to compensation of Managing HR). The Managing Director is the Chairman of the ManageDirector, his Deputy and the members of the Management ment Board and the Group General Counsel acts as its Board, by preparation of matters pertaining to the compenSecretary. sation systems and long-term incentive plans of the The Management Board is an operative, non-statutory Company, by preparation of matters relating to appointmanagement body that is responsible for securing the ment of Managing Director, his Deputy and the members of long-term strategic development of the Company. The the Management Board. The Committee also monitors personal information of the Management Board members succession planning of the senior management and the are presented in the section Group Management and their senior management’s performance evaluation. The Comholdings can be found in the section Insiders. The decisionmittee reports to the Board of Directors on each meeting. making process and main principles of remuneration of the After the 2016 AGM, the Board elected Jari Paasikivi the members of the Management Board are described in Chairman and Kerttu Tuomas and Juha Laaksonen the section Remuneration Report. members of the Personnel and Remuneration Committee. In 2016, the Personnel and Remuneration Committee met four times. The attendance rate at the meetings was 100%. OPERATIVE ORGANIZATION Each member’s attendance in the Personnel and Remuneration Committee meetings was as follows: Kemira Oyj has organized its business into three customer based segments. The Pulp & Paper segment focuses on Laaksonen 4/4 100% serving customers in the pulp and paper industry, the Oil & Paasikivi 4/4 100% Mining segment focuses on serving customers in the oil, Tuomas 4/4 100% gas and mining industries and the Municipal & Industrial segment concentrates on serving customers in municipal and industrial water treatment. The segments have a strategic leadership role as they MANAGING DIRECTOR formulate their respective business strategies and guide the strategy implementation within the segment. OperaThe Board of Directors appoints the Managing Director and tional business responsibilities within a segment are the Managing Director’s Deputy. Under the Articles of assumed by Regional Business Units (RBUs) having full Association, the Managing Director is responsible for Profit & Loss responsibility. The RBUs are the key business managing and developing the Company in accordance with decision making organs in the Company. As most business the instructions and regulations issued by the Board of decisions are taken on a regional level closer to customers, Directors, ensuring that the Company’s interests are served Kemira is able to respond rapidly to changes in market by the subsidiaries and associated companies under its environment. 2016 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The RBUs are guided by policies and guidelines defined issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority by global functions. Global functions are responsible for (ESMA) and Finnish Financial Supervision Authority developing policies, processes, guidelines and tools related (Fin-FSA) as well as the Guidelines for the Insiders of to their respective functional areas on a global basis. Such Listed Companies issued by Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. policies and processes are complied with throughout the The company has identified the persons and viceCompany. persons responsible for the various areas of insider Functions also have representatives in each region. administration within the company, including among others Regional functions ensure that the global policies are compliance in general, decision-making on publishing of implemented and adhered to in the regions. They are also insider information and on delaying the publication, responsible for supporting the business locally in the maintaining the insider list, overseeing the compliance region. with the trading restriction as well as the publication of Geographically Kemira’s operations are divided into transactions made by the persons discharging managerial three business regions: Europe, Middle East and Africa responsibilities and their closely associated persons (EMEA), Americas and Asia Pacific (APAC). The Region involving stocks and other financial instruments relating to Heads provide operational support and co-ordination Kemira. within the region and steer all regional development The company has determined, as required by the projects. Market Abuse Regulation, that the persons discharging managerial responsibilities within the company include the Board of Directors, the Managing Director (President & INTERNAL CONTROL CEO), Management Board as well as the secretary of Board of Directors and Management Board. The persons disKemira maintains an internal control system to ensure the charging managerial responsibilities are responsible for effectiveness and efficiency of its operations, including the identifying their closely associated persons and to disclose reliability of financial and operational reporting and the same to Kemira. compliance with the applicable regulations, policies and Kemira discloses by way of stock exchange release all practices. Internal control is an integral part of all of transactions made by the persons discharging managerial Kemira’s operations and covers all levels of the Group. The responsibilities and their closely associated persons and entire Group personnel are responsible for internal control companies involving stocks and other financial instruand its effectiveness is monitored by managers as part of ments relating to Kemira, as required by the Market Abuse operative management. Regulation. Kemira’s corporate values, Code of Conduct and Group According to the law, a person discharging managerial level policies and procedures guide the corporate governresponsibilities must not make transactions with stocks or ance and internal control in the Group. The internal policies other financial instruments of a listed company during a and the Kemira Code of Conduct have been communicated period of 30 days preceding the publications of the interim to all Group staff. The Group also provides training concernor annual financial report of a listed company. Kemira ing the main policies for people who need to know the applies a similar 30 days trade restriction to those of policies in question. Every employee has the right and duty Kemira Group employees, who are involved in the preparato report any violations of the law, the Code of Conduct or tion or publication of the interim or annual financial report Group policies. and who have access to group level unpublished financial The main components of internal control are the information. management and organizational culture, risk assessment, Kemira Oyj’s insider list is maintained by the legal control activities, reporting and communication, as well as department of the company using the SIRE service of monitoring and auditing. Euroclear Finland Oy. The attached table lays out the number of stocks owned by the persons discharging managerial responsibiliINSIDERS ties in Kemira Oyj, and by companies under their control, on December 31, 2016. Kemira Oyj complies with EU Market Abuse Regulation, Finnish Securities Market Act, the rules and regulations BOARD OF DIRECTORS Personal Ownership through Insider Position Ownership controlled companies Paasikivi Jari Chairman of the board of directors 212,364 0 Tuomas Kerttu Vice Chairman of the board of directors 10,639 0 Büchele Wolfgang Member of the board of directors 103,839 0 Fok Winnie Member of the board of directors 8,082 0 Hietala Kaisa Member of the board of directors 1,483 0 Laaksonen Juha Member of the board of directors 10,949 0 Lappalainen Timo Member of the board of directors 4,182 0 Total 351,538 0 6 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT MANAGEMENT BOARD Personal Ownership through Name Position Ownership controlled companies Rosendal Jari Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 40,000 0 Castrén Petri Member of the management board 16,736 0 Fagerholm Heidi Member of the management board 8,739 0 Johansen Tarjei Member of the management board 11,236 0 Löffelmann Michael Member of the management board 8,739 0 Poulsen Kim Member of the management board 2,602 0 Puputti Esa-Matti Member of the management board 8,739 0 Salminen Antti Member of the management board 14,236 0 Salonen Eeva Member of the management board 35,328 0 Hakkila Jukka Secretary of the Board of Directors and the management board 66,595 0 Total 212,950 0 Grand Total 564,488 0 INTERNAL AUDIT MAIN FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Kemira Group’s Internal Audit function provides independSYSTEMS PERTAINING TO THE FINANCIAL ent appraisal and assurance for the review of operations REPORTING PROCESS within the Group in order to support the management and the Board of Directors in fulfilling their oversight responsiKemira’s Board of Directors defines the main principles of bilities. risk management and approves the Group’s risk manageThe purpose is to evaluate and contribute to the ment policy. The business segments and functions are improvement of risk management, control and governance responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risks systems in the Group. The purpose, authority and responsiinvolved in their activities. The Group’s Risk Management bilities of the unit are defined in the Kemira Internal Audit office coordinates and supports risk management. KemiCharter approved by the Audit Committee. Internal auditors ra’s internal control system covers all Group operations, have complete and unrestricted access to all Kemira including financial reporting. The internal control activities activities. are carried out in all organizational levels as part of the Internal Audit is free to determine the scope of internal Group’s daily operations. auditing, the ways of performing its work and communicatA more detailed description of risks and risk manageing its results. ment can be found in Board of Directors Review and on the Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee and Company’s website at www.kemira.com > Investors > administratively to the Group General Counsel. Internal Corporate governance > Risk management. A general Audit reports all of its observations to the responsible description of Kemira’s internal control system can be management and to the auditor. In addition, Internal Audit found above under the heading Internal control. reports regularly the most essential and material observaThe following describes how Kemira’s internal control tions to the Audit Committee in connection with the Audit and risk control work in connection with the financial Committee’s meetings. Furthermore, the Internal Audit has reporting process to ensure that the financial reports a direct and unrestricted access to discuss with the published by the Company give essentially correct informaChairman of the Audit Committee. tion of the Company’s financial situation. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES AUDIT Kemira’s Board of Directors ensures that the Company has sufficient resources for risk management and control, and Under the Articles of Association, the shareholders’ that the control has been arranged appropriately and that meeting elects an audit firm certified by the Finland the financial statements provide correct and sufficient Chamber of Commerce as the Company’s auditor. The audit information of the Company. The Board of Directors is firm appoints the Principal Auditor, who is an Authorized assisted by the Audit Committee in these tasks. Public Accountant certified by the Finland Chamber of The Managing Director handles the Company’s everyday Commerce. The auditor’s term of office continues until the management in accordance with instructions and regulanext Annual General Meeting after the Auditor’s election. tions from the Board of Directors. The Managing Director is The 2016 Annual General Meeting elected Deloitte & responsible for the Company accounting being lawful and Touche Ltd. as the Company’s auditor, with Jukka Vattuthat assets are managed reliably. lainen, APA, acting as the Principal Auditor. In 2016, the The CFO is responsible for the general control system of audit fee paid globally to the auditor (Deloitte) totaled EUR financial reporting. The areas of responsibility between 1.5 million. In addition, a total of EUR 0.6 million was paid financial administration of the Group and the regions have as fees for other services. been defined precisely. Group level financial functions 2016 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT support, monitor, instruct and offer training to the financial checked based on a risk analysis it performs. The control organizations of the regions. Group level financial functions functions are described in the above mentioned risk are also responsible for the Group’s internal financial documentation and financial administration is responsible reporting and support segment controllers in analyzing for their practical implementation. business processes. Financial organization in the regions is Financial reporting control is performed either continuresponsible for the functionality of the financial functions’ ously as part of the transactions of the company’s monitorprocesses and correctness of figures in their region. ing processes such as purchasing and sales processes, or Controlling in segments operates under the segments’ alternatively monthly or annually as part of the reporting business management and analyzes and supports the process. business processes. The Group’s IT function has a significant role both in COMMUNICATION financial reporting and internal control, as reporting and By well-functioning internal control environment Kemira many control measures, such as process monitoring are aims at securing the timeliness, correctness and transparbased on IT solutions. ency of the company’s internal and external communicaThe Internal Audit function including its tasks and tion. The most essential guidelines and regulations areas of responsibility are described more specifically concerning the financial reporting, internal control and risk above under the heading Internal Audit. management, such as the guidelines regarding the principles of preparation of the financial statements and RISK MANAGEMENT financial reporting, are available to all employees in the The Group’s financial administration is responsible for group intranet. Kemira’s financial administration regularly managing risks related to financial reporting. The risks are arranges trainings regarding internal control and financial identified, assessed and managed in connection with the reporting as well as using the relevant tools. Group’s general risk management process and separately as part of financial administration’s own operating proMONITORING cesses. The Group’s financial administration assesses risks The functionality of internal control, risk management and it has recognized related to financial reporting. The aim of reporting systems is constantly monitored as part of daily the risk assessment is to identify and to assess the most management of the Company. Each segment, function and significant threats affecting the financial reporting and to region is responsible for implementing internal control, its define to which function or process risks are related and efficiency and reliability of reporting within their area of how the risks would affect the Group’s financial reporting if responsibility. The Group financial administration monitors those were to materialize. The Group’s financial administrathe functionality and reliability of the financial reporting tion and Risk Management are responsible for that the process at Group level. The financial reporting processes risks are reassessed regularly. are also monitored by the Internal Audit function. FINANCIAL REPORTING AND CONTROL The internal control and risk management systems pertaining to the financial reporting process have been designed so that sufficient certainty on the reliability of the financial reporting can be obtained and that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Kemira complies with the international standards for financial statements (IFRS) which are applicable in the EU and other requirements of the listed companies. Kemira Group policies and Kemira Group Financial Manual define in detail the processes of accounting and financial reporting to be applied in all Group companies. The purpose of the policies and Financial Manual is to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. The Group has a global Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP) system that ensures fast and reliable access to data. Subsidiaries report their figures from the ERP system to the Group, using a uniform Group reporting system. The financial organizations of the Group, segments and regions check the correctness of the figures in the Group reporting system in accordance with the responsibility areas described above. Proper control of financial administration, financial reporting and accounting processes is a basic requirement for the reliability of financial reporting. The Group financial administration determines the appropriate control functions, the objectives of each control function and how the effectiveness of the control functions is monitored and 8 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT GROUP MANAGEMENT Further information on the Board of Directors and the Management Board is available on www.kemira.com. BOARD OF DIRECTORS JARI PAASIKIVI KERTTU TUOMAS WOLFGANG BÜCHELE WINNIE FOK b. 1954 b. 1957 b. 1959 b. 1956 • Finnish citizen • Finnish citizen • German citizen • British citizen • M.Sc. (Econ.) • B.Sc. (Econ.) • Dr. rer.nat. • B.Comm. • Chairman of the Board • Vice Chairman of the • Member of the Board • Member of the Board • Independent of the Board • Managing Director of • Independent of the Company • Independent of the Kemira Oyj 1 April 2012– Company and its • Main occupation CEO of Company and its 30 April 2014 significant shareholders Oras Invest Oy, which significant shareholders • Independent of the • Main occupation owns over 10% of Kemira • Main occupation KONE Company's significant Wallenberg Foundations Oyj's shares Corporation, Executive shareholders AB, Senior Advisor Vice President, Human • Main occupation Merck Resources KGaA, Chairman of the Supervisory Board. KAISA HIETALA JUHA LAAKSONEN TIMO LAPPALAINEN b. 1971 b. 1952 b. 1962 • Finnish citizen • Finnish citizen • Finnish citizen • M.Sc.(Physics) and M.Sc. • B.Sc. (Econ.) • M.Sc. (Eng.) (Env.Sc.) • Member of the Board • Member of the Board • Member of the Board • Independent of the • Independent of the Company • Independent of the Company and its and its significant shareholders Company and its significant shareholders • Main occupation Orion significant shareholders Corporation, President & CEO • Main occupation Neste Corporation, Executive Vice President, Renewable products 2016 9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT GROUP MANAGEMENT MANAGING DIRECTOR, DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND MEMBERS OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD DECEMBER 31, 2016 JARI ROSENDAL JUKKA HAKKILA PETRI CASTRÉN HEIDI FAGERHOLM b. 1965 b. 1960 b. 1962 b. 1964 M. Sc. (Eng.) LL.M. LL.M., MBA D.Sc. (Chem.Eng.) Managing Director Group General Counsel Chief Financial Officer Chief Technology Officer Chairman of the Deputy Managing Director Management Board TARJEI JOHANSEN MICHAEL KIM POULSEN ESA-MATTI PUPUTTI b. 1971 LÖFFELMANN b. 1966 b. 1959 M. Sc. b. 1970 M. Sc. (Econ.) Lic. Tech. (Eng) President, Oil & Mining and Ph.D. (Eng.). President, Pulp & Paper and Executive Vice President, Americas Executive Vice President, APAC Operational Excellence Projects and Manufacturing Technology 10 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT ANTTI SALMINEN EEVA SALONEN b. 1971 b. 1960 Ph.D (Eng.) M.A. (Edu.) President, Municipal & Executive Vice President, Industrial and EMEA Human Resources 2016 11 Kemira Remuneration Statement 2016 REMUNERATION STATEMENT 2. D ECISION-MAKING PROCESS KEMIRA REMUNERATION IN REMUNERATION RELATED STATEMENT 2016 MATTERS INTRODUCTION The Annual General Meeting decides the remuneration of the Board of Directors for one term of office at a time. Kemira remuneration statement describes the company’s The Board of Directors decides the salaries, other remuneration principles and the remuneration of the remuneration and the terms of employment of the Managmanagement, i.e., the Board of Directors, the Managing ing Director, the Deputy Managing Director and the other Director, the Deputy Managing Director and the other members of the Management Board. The Personnel and members of the Management Board in 2016. The remuRemuneration Committee of the Board assists the Board of neration statement has been prepared in accordance with Directors by preparation of matters related to remunerathe Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2015. tion of the Managing Director, his Deputy and the members of the Management Board and by preparation of matters The remuneration statement is divided into following pertaining to the compensation systems and long-term sections: incentive plans of the company. 1. Main principles of remuneration 2. Decision-making process in remuneration related matters 3. Managing Director, the Deputy Managing Director and 3. MANAGING DIRECTOR, THE the Management Board remuneration report 4. Board of Directors remuneration report DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND THE MANAGEMENT BOARD REMUNERATION REPORT 1. MAIN PRINCIPLES OF Remuneration of the Managing Director (President & CEO), REMUNERATION his Deputy and the other members of the Management Board comprises a monthly salary, benefits and perforKemira reviews its remuneration principles and practices mance-based incentive plans. The incentive plans consist on a regular basis. The remuneration principles are applied of an annual short term bonus plan and a long term share to all Kemira employees. Transparency, market driven incentive plan. reward and pay for performance are the main principles of Members of Kemira Management Board who are rewarding at Kemira. employed by a Finnish Kemira company do not have any The remuneration in Kemira consists of the following supplementary pension arrangements in addition to the main elements: statutory pensions. Members of Kemira Management In Kemira a global job structure (job grading) is applied Board who are employed by a foreign Kemira company to define the job and base salary levels. The main elements participate in pension systems based on statutory pension outlining the job grade are the responsibilities, scope, and arrangements and market practices in their local countries. the impact of the job role in the organization. Base pay and The Kemira policy is that all new supplementary pension benefits follows local market practices, laws and regulaarrangements are defined contribution plans. tions. Short term bonus plan aims to reward for both company and individual performance. Long term share incentive plan aims to commit key employees to Kemira, and to combine the objectives and interest of the shareholders and the participants in the plan. Non – monetary rewarding is an important part of the total remuneration. Kemira is actively developing wellbeing at work, as well as providing opportunities for development of own job role. 14 2016 REMUNERATION STATEMENT Employment terms and conditions of the Managing REMUNERATION PAID TO THE MANAGING Director as of December 31, 2016. DIRECTOR, DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR BASE SALARY Annual base salary is EUR 567,000 per year, AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE MANAGEMENT including a car benefit and a mobile phone BOARD 2016 benefit. SHORT TERM Based on terms approved by the Board of In 2016, the total remuneration paid to Managing Director BONUS PLAN Directors. The maximum bonus is 60 percent of the annual salary. Jari Rosendal amounted to EUR 1,494,177 (2015: EUR LONG TERM Based on the terms of the share plan. The 669,765), including base salary and benefits, as well as SHARE maximum reward is determined as a number of short term bonus plan (based on 2015 earning period) of INCENTIVE shares and a cash portion to cover taxes and the EUR 324,000 (2015: 109,965), and long term share plan PLAN tax-related costs arising from the reward. consisting of 24,968 Kemira shares and cash portion with PENSION PLAN Finnish Employees’ Pension Act (TyEL), which provides pension security based on years of total value of EUR 337,461 (2015: 0 shares, EUR 0). service and earnings as stipulated by the law. No remuneration was paid to the Deputy Managing The retirement age of the Managing Director is based on the Finnish Employees’ Pension Act. Director based on Managing Director substitution in 2016. No supplementary pension arrangements in In 2016, the total remuneration paid to the other addition to the statutory pensions. members of the management board amounted to EUR 4 TERMINATION A mutual termination notice period of six 998 347 (2015: 2,519,733), including base salary and months applies to the Managing Director. The Managing Director is entitled to a severance pay benefits, as well as short term bonus plan of EUR 997,872 of 12 months' salary in addition to the salary (2015: 513,029), and long term share incentive plan earned during the notice period, in case the consisting of 71,266 Kemira shares and a cash portion with company terminates his service. total value of EUR 1,043,673 (2015: 0 shares, EUR 0). INSURANCES The Managing Director has a life-, private accident-, business travel-, and directors’ and officers’ liability insurances. The Managing Director participates in the company sickness fund. Long term Salary and Short term share incentive Total 2016 Total 2015 benefits (EUR) bonus plan (EUR) plan (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) Managing director Jari Rosendal 567,000 324,000 603,177 1,494,177 669,765 Other members of the management board 2,194,639 997,872 1,805,836 4,998,347 2,519,733 * Other management board members 31.12.2016: CFO Petri Castrén, CTO Heidi Fagerholm, President Oil & Mining and Region Americas Tarjei Johansen, EVP Projects & Manufacturing Technology Michael Löffelmann, President Pulp & Paper and Region Asia Pacific Kim Poulsen, EVP Operational Excellence Esa-Matti Puputti, President Municipal & Industrial and Region EMEA Antti Salminen, EVP Human Resources Eeva Salonen SHORT TERM BONUS PLAN FOR THE MAXIMUM REWARD AND CRITERIA 2017 MANAGING DIRECTOR, DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE • The maximum bonus for the Managing Director is 70% MANAGEMENT BOARD of the annual gross salary, for the Managing Director's Deputy 60% and for the other members of the ManageThe short term bonus plan is determined based on the ment Board 60–80% of the annual gross salary. achievement of the Kemira Group level and personal level • In 2017, performance targets are determined on the performance targets set by the Board of Directors for each basis of the operative cash flow after investing activifinancial year. ties, operative EBITDA, and safety related KPI’s of Kemira Group, and individual targets. MAXIMUM REWARD AND CRITERIA 2016 • The maximum bonus for the Managing Director is 60% of the annual gross salary, for the Managing Director's Deputy 50% and for the other members of the Management Board 50–70% of the annual gross salary. • In 2016, performance targets were determined on the basis of the organic revenue growth, operative cash flow after investing activities, and safety related KPI’s of Kemira Group, and individual targets. 2016 15 REMUNERATION STATEMENT LONG TERM SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN 2015– LONG TERM SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN EARNING 2017 PERIODS, MAXIMUM SHARE ALLOCATION AND CRITERIA 2015–2017 On December 15, 2014 the Board of Directors of Kemira Oyj decided to establish a long term share incentive plan directed to a group of key employees in Kemira. The aim of SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN EARNING PERIOD 2015 the plan is to combine the objectives of the shareholders The criteria of the plan for the earning period 2015 were and the persons participating in the plan in order to based on the Kemira Group's revenue and on the Group's increase the value of Kemira, to commit the participants to operative EBITDA margin. The reward from the 2015 Kemira, and to offer them a competitive reward plan based performance period was paid in 2016, partly in Kemira Oyj on earning Kemira’ s shares. The Personnel and Remunerashares and partly in cash. Based on the earning period tion Committee received advice for the planning work of 2015, 294,445 Kemira Oyj shares were paid to 84 particithe long term share incentive plan from external incentive pants. In addition a cash portion corresponding taxes and advisors, consultants of Alexander Incentives Oy. tax-related cost were paid to the participants. Long term share incentive plan main rules and conditions SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN EARNING PERIOD 2016 EARNING PERIODS The long term share incentive plan includes The criteria of the plan for the earning period 2016 were AND CRITERIA three performance periods: calendar years based on the Kemira Group's revenue and on the Group's 2015, 2016 and 2017. The Board of Directors operative EBITDA margin. The Kemira Group’s revenue of Kemira decide on the plan's performance criteria and on the required performance target did not reach the plan threshold level, and thus levels for each criterion at the beginning of there will no payout for the 2016 earning period. The plan each performance period. was directed to 85 people in 2016. The maximum reward on REWARDS The potential reward is paid partly in the basis of the 2016 earning period would have correKemira's shares and partly in cash. The cash proportion covers the taxes and sponded to the value of total of 504,200 Kemira Oyj shares tax-related costs arising from the reward to and additionally, the cash proportion intended to cover the participant. taxes and tax-related costs. RESTRICTION The shares paid as reward may not be PERIOD transferred during the restriction period, which will end two years from the end of the SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN EARNING PERIOD 2017 performance period. The criteria of the plan for the earning period 2017 is based EMPLOYMENT As a rule, no reward will be paid, if a on the Kemira Group's Intrinsic Value. The possible reward CONDITIONS participant's employment or service ends before the reward payment. Should a from the 2017 earning period is paid partly in Kemira Oyj participant's employment or service end shares and partly in cash in 2018. The plan is directed to during the restriction period, as a rule, he approximately 90 participants in 2017. On the basis of the or she must gratuitously return the shares given as reward. 2017 earning period the maximum potential reward is CLAWBACK Claw back provisions apply to plan rewards corresponding to the value of 585,000 Kemira Oyj shares in exceptional circumstances, such as and, additionally, the cash proportion intended to cover misconduct or misstatement of financial taxes and tax-related costs. results. SHARE OWNERSHIP The Board of Directors recommends that GUIDELINES a member of the Management Board will own such number of Kemira's shares that the total value of his or her shareholding corresponds to the value of his or her annual gross salary as long as the membership continues. If this recommendation is not yet fulfilled, the Board of Directors recommends that a member of the Management Board will hold 50 per cent of the number of shares given on the basis of this plan also after the end of the restriction period, as long as his or her shareholding in total corresponds to the value of his or her annual gross salary. 16 2016 REMUNERATION STATEMENT 4. B OARD OF DIRECTORS company or, if this is not possible, Kemira shares acquired from the securities market, and 60% is paid in cash. The REMUNERATION REPORT Annual General Meeting decided that the shares will be transferred to the members of the Board of Directors within According to the decisions of the Annual General Meeting two weeks after the release of Kemira’ s interim report 2016, the members of the Board of Directors are paid an January 1–March 31, 2016. annual fee and a fee per meeting. The members of the Board of Directors are not eligible for the short term bonus The following amounts of shares were paid on May 4, 2016 plan or the performance based share plan, or supplemenas part of the annual fee decided by the Annual General tary pension plans of Kemira Oyj. Meeting 2016: • the Chairman received 3,043 shares, The annual fees are as follows: • the Vice Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Commit• the Chairman will receive EUR 80,000 per year, tee 1,864 shares and • the Vice Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit • the other members 1,483 shares. Committee EUR 49,000 per year and • the other members EUR 39,000 per year. There are no special terms or conditions associated with owning these shares. A fee payable for each meeting of the Board and its committees are as follows: The remuneration of the Board of Directors 2016 • EUR 600 for the members residing in Finland, 2016 (euro) 2015 (euro) • EUR 1,200 for the members residing elsewhere in Jari Paasikivi, chairman 91,495 92,108 Europe and Kerttu Tuomas, vice chairman 57,091 58,898 • EUR 2,400 for the members residing outside Europe. Wolfgang Büchele 50,754 53,160 Winnie Fok 65,154 69,960 The meeting fees are to be paid in cash. Travel expenses Kaisa Hietala 47,154 are reimbursed according to Kemira’ s travel policy. Juha Laaksonen 60,691 61,298 In addition, the Annual General Meeting decided that Timo Lappalainen 48,354 48,960 the annual fee shall be paid as a combination of the Total 420,693 384,385 company’s shares and cash in such a manner that 40% of the annual fee is paid with the Kemira shares owned by the 2016 17 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 CONTINUED IMPROVEMENT IN PROFITABILITY In 2016, we continued to improve our profitability. We have systematically followed our strategic plan, and we are on our way towards our mid-to-long-term financial targets. Kemira aims for above-the-market revenue growth with operative EBITDA margin of 14–16%. The gearing target is below 60%. The year 2016 showed that our action plan is delivering continued improvement in profitability despite adverse developments in oil and gas markets. We progressed a step forward towards our profitability target and achieved operative EBITDA margin of 12.8% (2015: 12.1%). Jari Rosendal President & CEO VISIT KEMIRA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ONLINE: www.kemira.com/investors FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 2 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 Kemira oyj Income Statement (FAS) 68 GROUP KEY FIGURES 14 Kemira Oyj Balance Sheet (FAS) 69 Kemira Oyj Cash Flow Statement (FAS) 70 DEFINITIONS OF KEY FIGURES 17 Notes to Kemira Oyj Financial Statements 71 1. THE PARENT COMPANY'S ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 Consolidated Income Statement (IFRS) 18 2. REVENUE 72 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 72 Income (IFRS) 19 4. COSTS 72 Consolidated Balance Sheet (IFRS) 20 5. PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 73 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow (IFRS) 21 6. DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENTS 73 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (IFRS) 22 7. FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSES 74 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 23 8. APPROPRIATIONS 74 1. THE GROUP’S ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE 9. INCOME TAXES 74 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 75 2. SEGMENT INFORMATION 32 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 76 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 36 12. INVESTMENTS 77 4. OPERATING EXPENSES 36 13. INVENTORIES 77 5. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 37 14. RECEIVABLES 78 6. DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENTS 37 15. MONEY-MARKET INVESTMENTS 79 7. FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSES 38 16. EQUITY 79 8. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES 38 17. ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS 80 9. INCOME TAXES 38 18. OBLIGATORY PROVISIONS 80 10. EARNINGS PER SHARE 39 19. NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 81 11. GOODWILL 40 20. CURRENT LIABILITIES 82 12. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 41 21. COLLATERAL AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 82 13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 42 22. SHARES AND HOLDINGS OWNED BY KEMIRA OYJ 83 14. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS 43 15. CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS 84 LIABILITIES BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES 44 16. INVENTORIES 47 KEMIRA OYJ’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL TO THE 17. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 47 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF 18. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 48 DISTRIBUTABLE FUNDS AND SIGNING OF THE FINANCIAL 19. INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 49 STATEMENTS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 86 20. FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES 49 21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS 50 AUDITOR’S REPORT 87 22. DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 51 QUARTERLY EARNINGS PERFORMANCE 90 23. PROVISIONS 54 24. TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 54 INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS 92 25. CASH FLOW FROM DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES 55 26. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 55 27. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 56 28. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RISKS 57 29. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 62 30. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS AND LIABILITIES 63 31. RELATED PARTIES 64 32. CHANGES IN THE GROUP STRUCTURE 65 33. THE GROUP'S SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES 66 34. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE 67 2016 1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 In 2016, Kemira Group’s revenue remained at approximately EUR million 2016 2015 the prior year level and was EUR 2,363.3 million (2,373.1) Capital employed* 1,718.2 1,659.5 as growth from acquisitions and increased sales volumes Operative ROCE* 9.9 9.8 was offset by decline in sales prices and challenging ROCE*, % 8.6 8.0 market impacting Oil & Mining segment. Revenue in local Cash flow from operating activities 270.6 247.6 currencies, excluding acquisitions and divestments, Capital expenditure excl. acquisitions 212.6 181.7 decreased 2% as volume growth was not able to offset Capital expenditure 210.6 305.1 declining sales prices. Operative EBITDA increased 5% to Cash flow after investing activities 97.8 -53.8 EUR 302.5 million (287.3), mainly due to sales volume Equity ratio, % at period-end 45 46 growth while lower sales prices were offset by lower Equity per share, EUR 7.68 7.76 variable costs. Operative EBITDA margin improved to 12.8% Gearing, % at period-end 54 54 (12.1%). Earnings per share increased 28% to EUR 0.60 (0.47) due to improved profitability and gain on the sale of Personnel at period-end 4,818 4,685 electricity assets. * 12-month rolling average (ROCE, % based on the EBIT) The Board of Directors proposes a cash dividend of EUR 0.53 per share (0.53) to the Annual General Meeting 2017, Kemira provides certain financial performance measures (alternative performance measures) on non-GAAP basis. Kemira believes that totaling EUR 81 million (81). alternative performance measures, like operative EBITDA and operative EBIT, followed by Kemira management, provide useful and more comparable information of its operative business performance. KEY FIGURES AND RATIOS Kemira’s alternative performance measures should not be viewed in EUR million 2016 2015 isolation to the equivalent IFRS measures and alternative performance Revenue 2,363.3 2,373.1 measures should be read in conjunction with the most directly comparable IFRS measures. Definitions of the alternative performance Operative EBITDA 302.5 287.3 measures can be found in the Definitions of the key figures in this Operative EBITDA, % 12.8 12.1 report, as well as at www.kemira.com >Investors > Financial information. EBITDA 284.2 263.8 EBITDA, % 12.0 11.1 Operative EBIT 170.1 163.1 Operative EBIT, % 7.2 6.9 EBIT 147.0 132.6 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FULL YEAR 2016 EBIT, % 6.2 5.6 Finance costs, net -19.1 -30.8 Kemira Group’s revenue remained at approximately the Profit before taxes 128.0 102.1 prior year level and was EUR 2,363.3 million (2,373.1) as Net profit for the period 97.9 77.2 the growth from acquisitions and sales volumes offset the Earnings per share, EUR 0.60 0.47 decline in sales prices and the challenging market impacting our Oil & Mining segment. Currencies had 1% negative impact on revenue. Revenue in local currencies, excluding acquisitions and divestments, decreased 2% as the volume growth was not able to offset the decline in sales prices. 2 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 REVENUE Organic Currency Acq. & div. EUR million 2016 2015 ∆% growth*, % impact, % impact, % Pulp & Paper 1,457.3 1,417.3 +3 -1 -1 +4 Oil & Mining 309.5 350.1 -12 -11 -1 0 Municipal & Industrial 596.5 605.7 -2 0 -1 0 Total 2,363.3 2,373.1 0 -2 -1 +3 * Revenue in local currencies, excluding acquisitions and divestments Geographically, the revenue split was as follows: EMEA VARIANCE ANALYSIS (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 52% (52%), the Americas 38% EUR million 1–12 (40%), and Asia Pacific 10% (8%). Operative EBITDA, 2015 287.3 Operative EBITDA increased 5% to EUR 302.5 million Sales volumes +12.4 (287.3), mainly due to sales volume growth, while lower Sales prices -76.3 sales prices were offset by lower variable costs. Operative Variable costs +76.6 EBITDA margin improved to 12.8% (12.1%). Fixed costs -3.8 Currency exchange -1.9 Others +8.2 Operative EBITDA, 2016 302.5 OPERATIVE EBITDA 2016, 2015, 2016, 2015, EUR million EUR million ∆% %-margin %-margin Pulp & Paper 195.3 171.0 +14 13.4 12.1 Oil & Mining 18.4 33.5 -45 5.9 9.6 Municipal & Industrial 88.8 82.8 +7 14.9 13.7 Total 302.5 287.3 +5 12.8 12.1 EBITDA increased 8% to EUR 284.2 million (263.8). Items Operative EBIT increased 4% to EUR 170.1 million (163.1). affecting comparability in EBITDA were EUR -18.3 million Operative EBIT margin improved to 7.2% (6.9%). EBIT (-23.5) and in both years were mainly related to restructurincreased 11% to EUR 147.0 million (132.6) with a margin ing programs and integration costs. of 6.2% (5.6%). Depreciation, amortization and impairments increased Finance costs, net totaled EUR -19.1 million (-30.8) to EUR 137.2 million (131.2) due to increased investments including a EUR 5 million capital gain from the sale of including EUR 19.2 million (12.6) amortization of purchase electricity production assets (Pohjolan Voima Oy) recogprice allocation. Items affecting comparability within nized in the second quarter of 2016. Changes in fair values depreciation, amortization and impairments were EUR -4.8 of electricity derivatives were EUR 2.2 million (-0.8). The million (-7.0) and were mostly related to write-downs due currency exchange differences had EUR -1.1 million (-2.0) to restructuring of manufacturing plants. impact on the net financial expenses. Income taxes were EUR -30.1 million (-24.9). The ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY change is related to higher profit before taxes. EUR million 2016 2015 Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent Within EBITDA -18.3 -23.5 company increased 29% to EUR 91.8 million (71.0) and Pulp & Paper -7.5 -13.9 earnings per share increased to EUR 0.60 (0.47) driven by Oil & Mining -6.8 -2.7 lower financing costs and improved profitability. Municipal & Industrial -4.0 -6.9 Within depreciation, amortization and impairments -4.8 -7.0 FINANCIAL POSITION AND CASH FLOW Pulp & Paper -2.5 -0.3 Oil & Mining -1.5 -5.5 Cash flow from the operating activities in 2016 increased to Municipal & Industrial -0.8 -1.2 EUR 270.6 million (247.6), mainly due to higher profitability Total items affecting comparability and lower net working capital. Cash flow after investing in EBIT -23.1 -30.5 activities increased to EUR 97.8 million (-53.8). In the 2016 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 previous year, the acquisition of AkzoNobel’s paper RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT chemicals business had a material impact on the figures. At the end of 2016, interest-bearing liabilities totaled Research and Development expenses totaled EUR 32.1 EUR 807 million (794). The average interest rate of the million (31.9) in 2016, representing 1.4% (1.3%) of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities was 2.1% (2.0%). The Group’s revenue. duration of the Group’s interest-bearing loan portfolio was Kemira’s Research and Development is a critical 26 months (31). On December 31, 2016, cash and cash enabler of the growth and further differentiation. New equivalents totaled EUR 173 million (152). Group’s net product launches contribute to the efficiency and sustaininterest-bearing liabilities were EUR 634 million (642). ability of the customer processes and to the improved Short-term liabilities maturing in the next 12 months profitability. Both Kemira’s future market position and amounted to EUR 158 million. The Group has good liquidity profitability depend on the company’s ability to understand and funding options, including an undrawn EUR 400 million and meet current and future customer needs and market revolving credit facility. trends, and on its ability to innovate new differentiated At the end of the period, the equity ratio was 45% products and applications. (46%), while the gearing was 54% (54%). The shareholders’ The Group’s target is to increase the revenue from new equity was EUR 1,182.9 million (1,193.2). products and products for new applications. In 2016, the The Group's most significant transaction currency risks share of innovation revenue (revenue from new products or arise from the Swedish krona, the U.S. dollar, and the from products to new applications launched within the Canadian dollar. At the end of the year, the denominated past five years) of the Group’s revenue increased to 9% 12-month exchange rate risk of the Swedish krona had an (8%). equivalent value of approximately EUR 56 million, 68% of At the end of 2016, Kemira had 348 (345) patent which was hedged on an average basis. The U.S. dollar families, 1,236 (1,034) granted patents, and 860 (819) denominated exchange rate risk was approximately EUR 42 pending applications. A patent family covers one invention million, 51% of which was hedged on an average basis. The and has a number of patents or applications in various Canadian dollar denominated exchange rate risk was countries. approximately EUR 23 million, 64% of which was hedged on an average basis. In addition, Kemira is exposed to smaller transaction risks in relation to the Chinese renminbi, HUMAN RESOURCES Norwegian krona, and Brazilian real with the total annual exposure in these currencies of approximately EUR 49 At the end of the period, Kemira Group had 4,818 employmillion. 49% of NOK’s exposure was hedged on an average ees (December 31, 2015: 4,685). Kemira employed 796 basis. people in Finland (785), 1,813 people elsewhere in EMEA As Kemira’s consolidated financial statements are (1,786) 1,558 in the Americas (1,578), and 651 in APAC compiled in euros, Kemira is also subject to a currency (536). translation risk to the extent to which the income statement and balance sheet items of subsidiaries located outside Finland are reported in a currency other than euro. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The most significant translation exposure derives from the U.S. dollar, the Swedish krona, the Canadian dollar, the In 2017, Kemira will publish its Corporate Responsibility Chinese renminbi, and the Brazilian real. Strengthening of Report in connection with its Annual Report. The corporate these currencies against the euro would increase Kemira’s responsibility report 2016 will be verified by a third party revenue and EBITDA through a translation effect. In 2016, and prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 (Global currency rates had an EUR 1.9 million negative impact on Reporting Initiative) framework. It deals with economic, the operative EBITDA. environmental and social aspects defined material for Kemira, and reflects on Kemira’s performance in relation to the sustainability targets approved by Kemira’s ManageCAPITAL EXPENDITURE ment Board. The performance targets are displayed in the following table. In 2016, capital expenditure decreased to EUR 210.6 million (305.1) including the impact of acquisitions. Capital expenditure, excluding the impact of acquisitions, increased to EUR 212.6 million (181.7) and can be broken down as follows: expansion capex 45% (43%), improvement capex 27% (29%), and maintenance capex 28% (28%). The largest investments during the year were chlorate capacity expansions in Finland and Brazil as well as polymer capacity expansions in the UK and Italy. 4 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 FOCUS AREA TOPIC, KPI, TARGET VALUE COMMENTS STATUS INNOVATION SALES Due to delays in 10 9% Share of innovation revenue in commercialization of NPD 8% 8% 10% 8 7% total revenue, % projects the innovation sales → 10% by the end of 2017 target was slightly behind the 6 5% → KPI reported quarterly 10% target. However, a record 4 number of new products and 2 new treatment concepts were launched in 2016 (14 versus 0 3 in 2015). Innovation sales 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target Sustainable target 10% was extended by 2017 products & solutions one year until 2017. Behind target In progress Achieved SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT The new supplier audit 25 Number of onsite sustainability process was initiated, with 4 25 20 audits for highest risk suppliers onsite audits conducted by an (with lowest sustainability external service provider. 15 assessment score)1 10 → 5 suppliers audited every year 4 during 2016–2020, average 5 → KPI reported annually 0 Responsibility 2016 Target 2020 in our supply Behind target In progress Achieved chain CLIMATE CHANGE The carbon index2 improved 120 Carbon index as a result of purchased 100 100 88 91 92 86 → Kemira Carbon Index ≤ 80 by electricity sourced from less 80 80 end of 2020 (2012 = 100) carbon-intensive sources. 60 → KPI reported annually This improvement outweighed 40 the negative effect of the sale of part of Kemira's holding 20 in Pohjola Voima Oy, which 0 entitled to nuclear power 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target production capacity in Finland. 2020 Responsible manufacturing Behind target In progress Achieved OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Safety performance 10 8.5 AND SAFETY significantly improved due to 8 7.1 7.2 Total Recordable Injury Frequency our time and efforts invested 5.8 6 (TRIF) on management commitment, (per million hours, Kemira + employee engagement and 4 3.4 contractor, 1 year rolling average) higher visibility of safety 2 → Achieve zero injuries (TRIF 2.0 related matters in our internal 0 Responsibility by 2020) communication. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 towards the → KPI reported quarterly employees Behind target In progress Achieved EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Next biennial Voices@Kemira 100 84% 85% 80 70% 75% 67% Employee engagement index survey is being planned for 58% based on Voices@Kemira biennial 2017. 60 survey 40 → The index at or above the 20 external industry norm 0 Participation rate in 2011 2013 2015 Voices@Kemira ■ Engagement → 75% or above ■ Participation → KPI reported biennially Behind target In progress Achieved LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT The amount of leadership 1,500 1,500 Leadership development activities development activities during provided, average 2016 was very high (494), and 1,000 → Two (2) leadership development we are significantly ahead activities per people manager of our target of having 1500 494 500 position during 2016–2020 3 development activities4 during → KPI reported annually 2016–2020. 0 2016 Target 2020 Behind target In progress Achieved 1 117 sustainability assessments have been performed for strategic, critical and large spend suppliers. 2 Carbon index value in 2015 was corrected from 91 to 92 due to more accurate information from few sites. 3 The cumulative amount of leadership development required to reach two (2) leadership development activities per people manager position during 2016–2020 equals 1,500 leadership activities (when number of people manager positions is 650–850). 4 Development activities include job rotations, coaching and mentoring, and development programs. 2016 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 SEGMENTS OIL & MINING Oil & Mining provides a unique combination of innovative PULP & PAPER chemicals and application knowledge that improves Pulp & Paper has unique expertise in applying chemicals process efficiency and yield in oil, gas and metals recovery. and supporting pulp & paper producers in innovating and The segment uses its in-depth understanding of extraction constantly improving their operational efficiency. The processes to tailor solutions for water management and segment develops and commercializes new products to re-use. Expanding from its position in North America and fulfill the customer needs, ensuring the leading portfolio of EMEA, Oil & Mining continues to build a strong base for products and services for paper wet-end, focusing on growth in South America, Middle East, and Africa. packaging and board, as well as tissue. Pulp & Paper leverages its strong application portfolio in North America EUR million 2016 2015 and EMEA and builds a strong position in the emerging Revenue 309.5 350.1 Asian and South American markets. Operative EBITDA 18.4 33.5 Operative EBITDA, % 5.9 9.6 EUR million 2016 2015 EBITDA 11.6 30.8 Revenue 1,457.3 1,417.3 EBITDA, % 3.7 8.8 Operative EBITDA 195.3 171.0 Operative EBIT -3.8 11.1 Operative EBITDA, % 13.4 12.1 Operative EBIT, % -1.2 3.2 EBITDA 187.8 157.1 EBIT -12.1 2.9 EBITDA, % 12.9 11.1 EBIT, % -3.9 0.8 Operative EBIT 111.6 96.8 Capital employed* 274.5 271.4 Operative EBIT, % 7.7 6.8 Operative ROCE*, % -1.4 4.1 EBIT 101.6 82.6 ROCE*, % -4.4 1.1 EBIT, % 7.0 5.8 Capital expenditure excl. M&A 38.0 28.5 Capital employed* 1,111.8 1,068.6 Capital expenditure incl. M&A 38.0 30.7 Operative ROCE*, % 10.0 9.1 Cash flow after investing activities -19.9 10.7 ROCE*, % 9.1 7.7 * 12-month rolling average Capital expenditure excl. M&A 127.1 118.9 Capital expenditure incl. M&A 125.1 240.1 Cash flow after investing activities 105.7 -63.2 Oil & Mining segment’s revenue decreased 12% to EUR 309.5 million (350.1). Revenue in local currencies, excluding * 12-month rolling average acquisitions and divestments, decreased 11% mainly as a result of lower sales volumes and prices in the U.S. shale Pulp & Paper segment’s revenue increased 3% to EUR oil and gas fracking activity. Currency exchange rates had 1,457.3 million (1,417.3). Revenue in local currencies, an impact of -1%. excluding divestments and acquisitions, decreased 1% due In the Americas, revenue decreased 22% to EUR 191.5 to decline in sales prices, despite the sales volume growth. million (245.9), mainly due to lower activity in the shale oil Currency exchange rates had a -1% impact and acquisiand gas market. Currency exchange had a negative impact tions a +4% impact on revenue. on revenue in the region. In EMEA, revenue increased 1% to EUR 760.2 million In EMEA, revenue increased 13% to EUR 118.0 million (753.0), mainly due to the acquisition impact. Stable (104.3) as a result of new product sales in the field of demand for sodium chlorate and process chemicals Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery. The region started contributed to the sales volume growth. polyacrylamide deliveries to India in the second quarter of In the Americas, revenue increased 4% to EUR 519.1 2015. However, the contract was not renewed in the million (501.5). Growth was supported by acquisitions, as beginning of 2017. well as the new bleaching chemical site in Brazil. Operative EBITDA decreased 45% to EUR 18.4 million In APAC, revenue increased 9% to EUR 178.0 million (33.5) as a result of the lower revenue. Operative EBITDA (162.8), mainly due to acquisitions and sales volume margin was 5.9% (9.6%). EBITDA decreased 62% to EUR growth. Competitive pressure increased in sizing chemicals 11.6 million (30.8) with a margin of 3.7% (8.8%). during the second half impacting the region’s revenue. Operative EBITDA increased 14% to EUR 195.3 million (171.0), mainly due to sales volume growth, gross margin improvement and acquisitions. Lower fixed costs also contributed positively. Operative EBITDA margin improved to 13.4% (12.1%). EBITDA increased 20% to EUR 187.8 million (157.1) with a margin of 12.9% (11.1%). 6 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL Municipal & Industrial is a leading water chemicals PERFORMANCE supplier for raw and wastewater applications in EMEA and North America, and aims to capture selected growth Kemira Oyj’s revenue increased to EUR 1,364.2 million opportunities in emerging markets. The segment enables (1,347.0) in 2016. EBITDA was EUR 77.0 million (109.2). its municipal and industrial customers to improve their EBITDA decreased, mainly due to an increase in intercomwater treatment efficiency by supplying them with competpany service costs. The parent company’s financing income itive, high-performing products and value adding applicaand expenses were EUR 182.2 million (104.8). Financing tion support. income and expenses increased, mainly due to dividends from Group companies. Net profit totaled EUR 215.8 million EUR million 2016 2015 (165.2). Capital expenditure totaled EUR 17.7 million (60.9), Revenue 596.5 605.7 excluding investments in subsidiaries. Operative EBITDA 88.8 82.8 Operative EBITDA, % 14.9 13.7 EBITDA 84.8 75.9 KEMIRA OYJ’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS EBITDA, % 14.2 12.5 Operative EBIT 62.3 55.2 On December 31, 2016, Kemira Oyj’s share capital Operative EBIT, % 10.4 9.1 amounted to EUR 221.8 million and the number of shares EBIT 57.5 47.1 was 155,342,557. Each share entitles to one vote at the EBIT, % 9.6 7.8 Annual General Meeting. Capital employed* 330.7 320.2 At the end of December, Kemira Oyj had 32,622 regisOperative ROCE*, % 18.8 17.2 tered shareholders (32,601). Non-Finnish shareholders ROCE*, % 17.4 14.7 held 25.1% of the shares (21.4%) including nominee Capital expenditure excl. M&A 47.5 34.2 registered holdings. Households owned 16.0% of the Capital expenditure incl. M&A 47.5 34.2 shares (16.1%). Kemira held 2,975,327 treasury shares Cash flow after investing activities 55.6 38.2 (3,280,602) representing 1.9% (2.1%) of all company shares. * 12-month rolling average Kemira Oyj’s share price increased 11% since the beginning of the year and closed at EUR 12.13 on the Municipal & Industrial segment’s revenue decreased 2% to Nasdaq Helsinki at the end of December 2016 (10.88). EUR 596.5 million (605.7). Revenue in local currencies Shares registered a high of EUR 12.55 and a low of EUR remained at the prior year level as a combination of the 8.92 in January–December 2016. The volume-weighted higher sales volumes and lower sales prices. Currency average share price was EUR 10.84. The company’s market exchange rates had an impact of -1%. capitalization, excluding treasury shares, was EUR 1,848 In EMEA, revenue decreased 1% to EUR 389.6 million million at the end of December 2016 (1,654). (393.2), mainly due to the weak British pound. Organic In January–December 2016, Kemira Oyj’s share trading growth was positive thanks to the higher sales volumes of volume on Nasdaq Helsinki was 65 million shares (75). The coagulants and polymers. average daily trading volume was 256,233 (298,313) shares. In the Americas, revenue decreased 2% to EUR 184.5 Source: Nasdaq. The total volume of Kemira Oyj’s share million (187.7), mainly due to lower sales prices and trading in January–December 2016 was 95 million (112), negative currency exchange rates, while sales volume 32% (33%) of which was executed on other trading platgrowth continued. forms (BATS, Chi-X, Turquoise). Source: Kemira.com. In APAC, revenue decreased by 10% to EUR 22.4 million (24.9), mainly due to slowdown in demand of our industrial customers in China. Currencies had a negative impact on revenue. The region has also increased the focus on product lines with better profitability. Operative EBITDA increased 7% to EUR 88.8 million (82.8), mostly as a result of improved gross margin and higher sales volumes. Operative EBITDA margin improved to 14.9% (13.7%). EBITDA increased 12% to EUR 84.8 million (75.9) with a margin of 14.2% (12.5%). 2016 7 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 OWNERSHIP ON DECEMBER 31, 2016 Corporations 40.1% Financial and insurance corporations 3.6% General government 11.2% Households 16.0% Non-profit institutions 4.0% Non-Finnish shareholders incl. nominee registered 25.1% SHAREHOLDING BY NUMBER OF SHARES HELD DECEMBER 31, 2016 Number of Number of shares shareholders % of shareholders Shares total % of shares and votes 1 –100 7,598 23.3 463,931 0.3 101 – 500 13,998 42.9 3,819,909 2.5 501 –1,000 5,135 15.8 3,923,221 2.5 1,001– 5,000 4,934 15.1 10,247,683 6.6 5,001 –10,000 500 1.5 3,612,609 2.3 10,001 – 50,000 350 1.1 6,643,382 4.3 50,001 –100,000 43 0.1 3,291,981 2.1 100,001 – 500,000 49 0.2 10,583,444 6.8 500,001 –1,000,000 3 0.0 2,118,813 1.4 1,000,001 – 12 0.0 110,637,584 71.2 Total 32,622 100.0 155,342,557 100.0 LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS DECEMBER 31, 2016 Shareholder Number of shares % of shares and votes 1 Oras Invest Ltd 28,278,217 18.2 2 Solidium Oy 25,896,087 16.7 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8,164,836 5.3 4 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 4,800,451 3.1 5 Nordea funds 1,783,056 1.2 6 Skagen Vekst Verdipapierfond 1,350,000 0.9 7 The State Pension Fund 1,190,000 0.8 8 Veritas Pension Insurance Company Ltd. 1,131,112 0.7 9 Etola Erkki Olavi 1,000,000 0.6 10 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 609,331 0.4 11 Aktia Funds 470,000 0.3 12 LähiTapiola Funds 465,829 0.3 13 Alfred Berg Funds 455,325 0.3 14 Pohjola Funds Managment 428,594 0.3 15 OP-Henkivakuutus Ltd. 413,689 0.3 Kemira Oyj 2,975,327 1.9 Nominee registered and foreign shareholders 38,946,080 25.1 Others, total 36,984,623 23.6 Total 155,342,557 100.0 8 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN FOR MANAGEMENT AND The Share Issue Authorization is valid until May 31, 2017. KEY EMPLOYEES The authorization from the AGM 2016 has been used in On December 15, 2014, the Board of Directors of Kemira Oyj connection with the remuneration of the Board of Directors decided to establish a long-term share-based incentive and the authorization from the AGM 2015 has been used plan (“Performance Share Plan”) directed at a group of key for the remuneration of key employees in 2016. employees in Kemira. The aim of the plan is to combine the The AGM elected Deloitte & Touche Oy to serve as the objectives of the shareholders and the persons participatcompany’s auditor, with Jukka Vattulainen, Authorized ing in the plan in order to increase the value of Kemira, to Public Accountant, acting as the principal auditor. commit the participants to Kemira, and to offer them a competitive reward plan based on earning of Kemira's shares. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND GROUP The Performance Share Plan includes three perforSTRUCTURE mance periods: calendar years 2015, 2016, and 2017. The Board of Directors of Kemira decides on the plan's perforKemira Oyj’s corporate governance is based on the Articles mance criteria and on the required performance levels for of Association, the Finnish Companies Act, and Nasdaq each criterion at the beginning of each performance period. Helsinki’s rules and regulations on listed companies. The potential reward is to be paid partly in Kemira's shares Furthermore, the company complies with the Finnish and partly in cash. The cash portion covers the taxes and Corporate Governance Code. The company’s corporate tax-related costs arising from the reward to the particigovernance is presented as a separate statement on the pant. As a rule, no reward will be paid if the participant's company’s website. employment or service ends before the disbursement of the reward. The shares paid as a reward may not be BOARD OF DIRECTORS transferred during the restriction period, which will end On March 21, 2016, the Annual General Meeting elected two years after the end of the performance period. If the seven members to the Board of Directors. The Annual participant's employment or service ends during the General Meeting re-elected Wolfgang Büchele, Winnie Fok, restriction period, he or she must, as a rule, gratuitously Juha Laaksonen, Timo Lappalainen, Jari Paasikivi, and return the shares given as a reward. For details of the plan, Kerttu Tuomas, and elected Kaisa Hietala as a new member see Kemira remuneration statement. to the Board of Directors. Jari Paasikivi was re-elected as the Board's Chairman and Kerttu Tuomas was re-elected EARNINGS PERIOD 2016 as the Vice Chairman. In 2016, Kemira’s Board of Directors The criteria for the plan for the earning period 2016 was met 11 times with a 98.7% attendance rate. based on the Group's revenue and operative EBITDA Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors has appointed two margin. The Performance Share Plan 2016 was directed at committees: the Personnel and Remuneration Committee 85 people. The maximum rewards for 2016 would have and the Audit Committee. The Personnel and Remuneration corresponded to the value of an approximate total of Committee is chaired by Jari Paasikivi and has Juha 504,200 Kemira Oyj’s shares and additionally, the cash Laaksonen and Kerttu Tuomas as members. In 2016, the portion intended to cover taxes and tax-related costs. Personnel and Remuneration Committee met 4 times with Group’s revenue did not reach the Performance Share a 100% attendance rate. The Audit Committee is chaired by Plan’s threshold level for 2016, and thus there will be no Juha Laaksonen and has Kaisa Hietala, Timo Lappalainen reward payout for the earnings period 2016. and Jari Paasikivi as members. In 2016, the Audit Committee met 5 times with a 100% attendance rate. AGM DECISIONS CHANGES TO COMPANY MANAGEMENT On January 20, 2017, Michael Löffelmann, EVP, Projects & ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Manufacturing Technology, left Kemira to take up a leaderKemira Oyj’s Annual General Meeting held on March 21, ship position in another company. Esa-Matti Puputti, EVP 2016 confirmed the dividend of EUR 0.53. The dividend was Operational Excellence, acts as the interim head of paid out on April 6, 2016. Projects & Manufacturing Technology. The AGM 2016 authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of a maximum of 4,800,000 STRUCTURE company's own shares (“Share Repurchase Authorization”). There have been no acquisitions or divestments during the The Share Repurchase Authorization is valid until the end year which would have impacted the company’s structure. of the next Annual General Meeting. The Board has not exercised its authority by December 31, 2016. The AGM 2016 also authorized the Board of Directors to SHORT-TERM RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES decide to issue a maximum of 15,600,000 new shares and / or transfer a maximum of 7,800,000 of the company's own Effective compliance with and systematic execution of shares held by the company (“Share Issue Authorization”). Kemira’s risk management policy and principles proactively 2016 9 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 protect and help Kemira to reach the desired aggregate risk compliance in order to ensure for instance compliant level and ensure the continuity of Kemira’s operations. product importation. Kemira continuously follows regulatory developments CHANGES IN CUSTOMER DEMAND in order to maintain the awareness of proposed and Significant unforeseen decline in the use of certain upcoming changes of those laws and regulations which chemicals (e.g. chemicals for packaging and board producmay have an impact, for instance, on its sales, production, tion) or in the demand of customers’ products could have a and product development needs. Kemira has established negative impact on the Kemira’s business. Significant an internal process to manage the substances of potential decline in certain raw material and utility prices (e.g. oil, concern and to create management plans for them. Plans gas, and metal) may shift customers’ activities in areas, would consider, for example, the possibilities to replace which can be exploited with fewer chemicals. Also, certain substances if those would be subject to stricter increased awareness of and concern about climate change regulation. Kemira has also increased the focus and and more sustainable products may change the customers’ resources in the management of global trade compliance. demands, for instance, towards water treatment technoloRegulatory effects are systematically taken into gies with lower chemical consumption, and this may have a consideration in the strategic decision making. Kemira negative impact, especially on the Municipal & Industrial takes active role in regulatory discussions whenever segment’s ability to compete. On the other hand, the justified from the perspective of the industry or business. customer’s possible capacity expansions could increase the chemical consumption and challenge Kemira’s current COMPETITION production capacity. Failure from Kemira’s side to be Kemira operates in a rapidly changing and competitive prepared to meet and manage these changed expectations business environment that represents a considerable risk could result in a loss of the market share. to meeting its goals. New players seeking a foothold in the In order to manage and mitigate this risk, Kemira Kemira’s key business segments may use aggressive systematically monitors leading indicators and early means as a competitive tool, which could affect Kemira’s warning indicators that focus on market development. financial results. A major competitor or customer consoliKemira has also continued to focus on the sustainability of dations could change the market dynamics and possibly its business and is further improving the coordination and also change Kemira’s market position. cooperation between the Business Development, R&D, and Kemira is seeking growth in segments that are less Sales units in order to better understand the future needs familiar and where new competitive situations will prevail. and expectations of its customers. Timely capital investIn the long-term, completely new types of technology may ments as well as continuous discussions and follow-ups considerably change the current competitive situation. This with customers ensure Kemira’s ability to respond to risk is managed both at the Group and the segment levels possible increase in demands. Kemira’s geographic and through continuous monitoring of the competition. The customer industry diversity also provides partial protection company aims at responding to its competition with the against the risk of changed customer demands. active management of customer relationships and continuous development of its products and services to further CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS differentiate itself from the competitors. Kemira’s business is subject to various laws and regulations, which have relevance in the development and ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GEOPOLITICAL CHANGES implementation of Kemira’s strategy. Although laws and Uncertainties in the global economic and geopolitical regulations can generally be considered as an opportunity development are considered to include direct or indirect for Kemira, certain legislative initiatives supporting, for risks, such as a continuation of low-growth period in the instance, the use of biodegradable raw materials or biologiglobal GDP and possible unexpected trade-related political cal water treatment, limiting the use of aluminum or decisions, both of which could have unfavorable impacts phosphates, or relating to recovery or recycling of phosphoon the demand for Kemira’s products. Certain political rus, may also have a negative impact on Kemira’s business. actions or changes, especially in the countries which are Significant changes, for instance, in chemical, environmenimportant to Kemira, could cause business interference or tal or transportation laws and regulations may impact on other adverse consequences. Kemira’s profitability through the increase in production Weak economic development may result in the cusand transportation costs. At the same time, such changes tomer closures or consolidations diminishing the customer may also create new business opportunities for Kemira. base. The liquidity of Kemira’s customers could become Inclusion of new substances into the REACH authorizaweaker, resulting in increased credit losses for Kemira. tion process may also bring further requirements to Unfavorable market conditions may also increase the Kemira, where failure to obtain the relevant authorization availability and price risk of certain raw materials. could impact Kemira’s business. In addition, the changes in Kemira’s geographical and customer industry diversity import / export and customs-related regulation create provides only partial protection against this risk. Kemira needs for effective monitoring and mastering global trade continuously monitors geopolitical movements and 10 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 changes, and aims to adjust its business accordingly, if involves risks, such as the ability to successfully integrate reasonable. acquired operations and personnel. If realized, this risk may result in a shortage in the set financial targets for such HAZARD RISKS acquisitions. Kemira’s production activities involve many hazard risks, Kemira has created M&A procedures and established such as fires and explosions, machinery breakdowns, Group level-dedicated resources to actively manage natural catastrophes, environmental incidents, and merger and acquisition activities and to support execution possible resulting liabilities, as well as the employee health of its business transactions. In addition, external advisory and safety risks. These risk events could derive from services are being used to screen potential mergers and several factors, including but not limited to unauthorized IT acquisitions and to help execute transactions and postsystem access by malicious intruder causing possible merger integration. damage to the systems and consequent financial losses. A systematic focus on achieving set targets, certified PRICE AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS AND management systems, efficient hazard prevention proCOMMODITIES grams, adequate maintenance, and competent personnel Continuous improvement of profitability is a crucial part of play a central role in managing these hazard risks. In the Kemira’s strategy. Significant and sudden increase in addition, Kemira has several insurance programs that the cost of raw material, commodity, or logistics could protect the company against financial impacts of hazard place Kemira’s profitability targets at risk if Kemira will not risks. be able to pass on such increase to product prices without delay. For instance, remarkable changes in oil and electricINNOVATION AND R&D ity prices could materially impact Kemira’s profitability. Kemira’s Research and Development is a critical enabler for Changes in the raw material supplier field, such as organic growth and further differentiation. New product consolidation or decreasing capacity, may increase raw launches contribute to the efficiency and sustainability of material prices. Also, material demand changes in indusKemira’s or its customers’ processes, as well as to the tries that are the main users of certain raw materials may improved profitability. Both Kemira’s future market position lead to significant raw material price fluctuations. Poor and profitability depend on its ability to understand and availability of certain raw materials may affect Kemira’s meet current and future customer needs and market production if Kemira fails to prepare for this by mapping trends, and its ability to innovate new differentiated out alternative suppliers or opportunities for process products and applications. Failure to innovate or focus on changes. Raw material and commodity risks can be the new disruptive technologies and products, or to effectively monitored and managed with Kemira's centralefficiently launch new products or service concepts may ized Sourcing Unit. Risk management measures include, for result in non-achievement of growth targets. instance, forward-looking forecasting of key raw materials Innovation and R&D related risks are being managed and commodities, synchronization of raw material purthrough the efficient R&D portfolio management in close chase agreements and sales agreements, captive manucollaboration between R&D and business segments. facturing of some of the critical raw materials, strategic Kemira has further improved the coordination and coopinvestment in energy-generating companies, and hedging a eration between Business Development, R&D, Sales and portion of the energy and electricity spend. Marketing units in order to better understand the future needs and expectations of its customers. With continuous SUPPLIERS development of innovation processes Kemira aims towards The continuity of Kemira’s business operations is dependmore stringent project execution. Kemira maintains ent on an accurate and a good-quality supply of the increased focus towards the development of more differproducts and services. Kemira has currently in place entiated and sustainable products and processes and is numerous partnerships and other agreements with also continuously monitoring sales of its new products and third-party product and service suppliers to secure its applications (launched into the market within the last 5 business continuity. Certain products used as raw materiyears). als are considered critical as the purchase can be made economically only from a sole or single source. In the event ACQUISITIONS of a sudden and significant loss or interruption in such Acquisitions can be considered an important driver in the supply of raw material, Kemira’s operations could be accomplishment of corporate goals and strategies. impacted, and this could have further effects on the Consolidations are driven by, for instance, chemical Kemira’s ability to accomplish its profitability targets. manufacturers’ interests in realizing synergies and estabIneffective procurement planning, supply source selection, lishing footholds in the new markets. and contract administration, as well as inadequate Kemira’s market position may deteriorate if it is unable supplier relationship management, create a risk of Kemira to find and take advantage of the future acquisition not being able to fulfill its promises to customers. opportunities. Inorganic growth through acquisitions also 2016 11 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 Kemira continuously aims to identify, analyze, and the Audit Committee EUR 49,000 per year and for the other engage third-party suppliers in a way that ensures security members EUR 39,000 per year. A fee payable for each of supply and competitive pricing of the end products and meeting of the Board of Directors and the Board Commitservices. Collaborative relationships with key suppliers are tees would be for the members residing in Finland EUR being developed in order to uncover and realize new value 600, for the members residing in the rest of Europe EUR and reduce risk. Supplier performance is also regularly 1,200 and for the members residing outside Europe EUR monitored as a part of the supplier performance manage2,400. Travel expenses are proposed to be paid according ment process. to Kemira's travel policy. In addition, the Nomination Board proposes to the TALENT MANAGEMENT Annual General Meeting that the annual fee be paid as a To secure competitiveness and growth, as well as to combination of the company's shares and cash in such a improve operative efficiency, it is essential to attract and manner that 40% of the annual fee is paid with the comretain personnel with the right skills and competences (e.g. pany's shares owned by the company or, if this is not R&D, sales, customer service and marketing competence). possible, shares purchased from the market, and 60% is Kemira is continuously identifying high potentials and key paid in cash. The shares will be transferred to the members competencies for the future needs. By systematic developof the Board of Directors and, if necessary, acquired ment and improvement of compensation schemes, learning directly on behalf of the members of the Board of Directors programs, and career development programs, Kemira aims within two weeks from the release of Kemira's interim to ensure the continuity of skilled personnel also in the report January 1 March 31, 2017. The meeting fees are future. proposed to be paid in cash. A detailed account of the Kemira’s risk management The Nomination Board has consisted of the following principles is available on the company’s website at http:// representatives: Pekka Paasikivi, Chairman of the Board of www.kemira.com. Financial risks are also described in the Oras Invest Oy as the Chairman of the Nomination Board; Notes to the Financial Statements. Kari Järvinen, Managing Director of Solidium Oy; Reima Rytsölä, Executive Vice-President, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company and Timo Ritakallio, President and EVENTS AFTER THE REVIEW PERIOD CEO, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company as members of the Nomination Board and Jari Paasikivi, PROPOSALS OF THE NOMINATION BOARD TO Chairman of Kemira's Board of Directors as an expert THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2017 member. The Nomination Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting of Kemira Oyj that six members (previously seven) FIRE AT A SUPPLIER’S SITE IN PORI, FINLAND be elected to the Board of Directors and that the present On January 30, 2017 an extensive fire occurred at Huntsmembers Wolfgang Büchele, Kaisa Hietala, Timo Lappaman Pigments’ plant in Pori, Finland. Kemira’s facilities at lainen, Jari Paasikivi and Kerttu Tuomas be re-elected as the site were not directly exposed and there were no members of the Board of Directors. The Nomination Board personal injuries. Huntsman Pigments is a key raw material proposes that Ms. Shirley Cunningham be elected as new supplier for Kemira’s coagulant production and also member of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Nominapurchases chemicals and energy from Kemira. Kemira is tion Board proposes Jari Paasikivi be re-elected as the taking actions to mitigate the disruption of the raw Chairman of the Board of Directors and Kerttu Tuomas be material supply. The length of the stoppage at the Huntsre-elected as the Vice Chairman. All the nominees have man Pigments’ site and the possible financial impact to given their consent to the position. Winnie Fok and Juha Kemira is currently unknown. Laaksonen have advised the Nomination Board, that they are not available as candidates to continue in Kemira’s Board of Directors. DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY Ms. Shirley Cunningham, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Ag Business and Enterprise On December 31, 2016, Kemira Oyj’s distributable funds Strategy, is a member of the Senior Leadership Team at totaled EUR 822,049,454 of which net profit for the period CHS Inc., USA. She currently serves on the Board of was EUR 215,781,981. No material changes have taken Directors of Ardent Mills, LLC, Ventura Foods, LLC and place in the company’s financial position after the balance TEMCO, LLC. Ms. Cunningham holds a master’s degree in sheet date. business administration from Washington University. Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors proposes to the Annual The Nomination Board proposes to the Annual General General Meeting to be held on March 24, 2017 that a Meeting that the remuneration paid to the members of the dividend of EUR 0.53 per share totaling EUR 81 million shall Board of Directors will remain unchanged. The remunerabe paid on the basis of the adopted balance sheet for the tion paid to the members of the Board of Directors would financial year ended December 31, 2016. thus be as follows. The annual fees: for the Chairman EUR Kemira’s dividend policy aims to pay a stable and 80,000 per year, for the Vice Chairman and the Chairman of competitive dividend. 12 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2016 MIDAND LONG-TERM FINANCIAL TARGETS Kemira has launched an operational excellence program AND OUTLOOK FOR 2017 'BOOST' to further improve its efficiency. Estimated annual savings run-rate from the program are EUR 20–30 million Kemira updated its midto long-term financial targets on in 2–3 years. BOOST will focus on the supply chain process September 14, 2016, emphasizing its continued goal of optimization and improved asset utilization. above-the-market revenue growth with improving profitThe integration of the acquired AkzoNobel’s paper ability. The company has progressed well towards the chemicals business has progressed better than expected previous targets of EUR 2.7 billion in revenue and operative and Kemira has raised the synergy target from EUR 15 EBITDA margin of 15%, despite the weak developments in million to EUR 20 million. oil & gas markets, which started in 2015. In addition, Kemira continues to evaluate acquisition Kemira aims at above-the-market revenue growth with opportunities to enhance profitable growth. operative EBITDA margin of 14–16%. The gearing target is below 60%. OUTLOOK FOR 2017 Kemira expects its operative EBITDA to increase from the Main drivers for Kemira's profitable growth are: prior year (2016: EUR 302.5 million). • In Pulp & Paper: above-the-market growth arising from the new Total Chemistry Management (TCM) contracts and bleaching chemical capacity additions, as well as synergy capture from acquisitions • In Oil & Mining: profitable growth in newer applications such as Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery (CEOR) and oil sands, as well as potential oil market recovery • In Municipal & Industrial: increasing revenue from Advanced Water Treatment (AWT) applications, as well as continuing growth in current business driven by selective geographic expansion • Group-wide operational efficiencies with new BOOST program. Helsinki, February 7, 2017 Kemira Oyj Board of Directors All forward-looking statements in this review are based on the management’s current expectations and beliefs about future events, and actual results may differ materially from the expectations and beliefs such statements contain. 2016 13 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Group key figures GROUP KEY FIGURES Kemira provides certain financial performance measures viewed in isolation to the equivalent IFRS measures and (alternative performance measures) on non-GAAP basis. alternative performance measures should be read in Kemira believes that alternative performance measures, conjunction with the most directly comparable IFRS like operative EBITDA and operative EBIT, followed by measures. Definitions of the alternative performance Kemira management, provide useful and more comparable measures can be found from the Definitions of the key information of its operative business performance. figures in this financial statements, as well as at Kemira’s alternative performance measures should not be www.kemira.com >Investors > Financial information. 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 INCOME STATEMENT AND PROFITABILITY Revenue, EUR million 2,363 2,373 2,137 2,229 2,241 Operative EBITDA, EUR million 303 287 253 252 249 Operative EBITDA, % 12.8 12.1 11.8 11.3 11.1 EBITDA, EUR million 1) 2) 284 264 253 142 180 EBITDA, % 12.0 11.1 11.8 6.4 8.0 Operative EBIT, EUR million 170 163 158 164 156 Operative EBIT, % 7.2 6.9 7.4 7.4 6.9 Operating profit (EBIT), EUR million 1) 2) 147 133 153 43 33 Operating profit (EBIT), % 6.2 5.6 7.1 1.9 1.5 Share of the results of associates, EUR million 1) 0 0 0 -1 11 Finance costs (net), EUR million 19 31 31 39 16 % of revenue 0.8 1.3 1.4 1.7 0.7 Interest cover 1) 2) 15 9 8 4 11 Profit before tax, EUR million 2) 128 102 122 3 29 % of revenue 5.4 4.3 5.7 0.1 1.3 Net profit for the period (attributable to equity owners of the parent), EUR million 2) 92 71 90 -32 18 Return on investment (ROI), % 2) 3) 7 7 8 1 3 Return of equity (ROE), % 2) 8 6 8 -3 1 Capital employed, EUR million 2) 1,718 1,660 1,428 1,496 1,768 Operative return on capital employed (ROCE), % 2) 9.9 9.8 11.1 10.9 9.4 Return on capital employed (ROCE), % 2) 8.6 8.0 10.7 2.8 2.5 Research and development expenses, EUR million 32 32 28 32 42 % of revenue 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.6 CASH FLOW Net cash generated from operating activities, EUR million 271 248 74 200 176 Disposals of subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, EUR million 37 3 146 193 30 Capital expenditure, EUR million 211 305 145 198 134 % of revenue 9 13 7 9 6 Capital expenditure excl. acquisitions, EUR million 213 182 146 139 134 % of revenue 9 8 7 6 6 Cash flow after investing activities, EUR million 98 -54 75 196 72 Cash flow return on capital invested (CFROI), % 2) 12 12 4 10 8 1) Share of the results of associates is presented after the finance costs, net. 2) Comparative figures for 2012 have been restated according to the revised IAS 19 `Employee Benefits´. 3) The financial figure for 2013 has been restated. Finance costs relating to a write-down of the associate company of Sachtleben have been decreased by EUR 23 million. 4) Number of shares outstanding, excluding the number of treasury shares. 5) The dividend for 2016 is the Board of Directors' proposal to the Annual General Meeting. 14 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Group key figures 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 BALANCE SHEET AND SOLVENCY Non-current assets, EUR million 1,822 1,825 1,613 1,501 1,682 Shareholders' equity (Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent), EUR million 2) 1,170 1,180 1,151 1,113 1,247 Total equity including non-controlling interests, EUR million 2) 1,183 1,193 1,163 1,126 1,261 Total liabilities, EUR million 1,438 1,402 1,132 1,086 1,202 Total assets, EUR million 2) 2,621 2,595 2,296 2,211 2,462 Net working capital 195 218 222 198 230 Interest-bearing net liabilities, EUR million 634 642 486 456 532 Equity ratio, % 2) 45 46 51 51 51 Gearing, % 2) 54 54 42 41 42 Interest-bearing net liabilities per EBITDA 2) 2.2 2.4 1.9 3.2 3.0 PERSONNEL Personnel at period-end 4,818 4,685 4,248 4,453 4,857 Personnel (average) 4,802 4,559 4,285 4,632 5,043 of whom in Finland 807 793 823 1,027 1,173 EXCHANGE RATES Key exchange rates at 31 Dec USD 1.054 1.089 1.214 1.379 1.319 CAD 1.419 1.512 1.406 1.467 1.314 SEK 9.553 9.190 9.393 8.859 8.582 CNY 7.320 7.061 7.536 8.349 8.221 BRL 3.431 4.312 3.221 3.258 2.704 PER SHARE FIGURES Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 2) 4) 0.60 0.47 0.59 -0.21 0.12 Net cash generated from operating activities per share, EUR 4) 1.78 1.63 0.49 1.32 1.16 Dividend per share, EUR 4) 5) 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 Dividend payout ratio, % 2) 4) 5) 88.0 113.5 89.6 -255.0 455.1 Dividend yield, % 4) 5) 4.4 4.9 5.4 4.4 4.5 Equity per share, EUR 2) 4) 7.68 7.76 7.57 7.32 8.20 Price per earnings per share (P / E ratio) 2) 4) 20.14 23.29 16.72 -58.50 101.51 Price per equity per share 2) 4) 1.58 1.40 1.31 1.66 1.44 Price per cash flow from operations per share 4) 6.83 6.68 20.24 9.23 10.18 Dividend paid, EUR million 5) 80.8 80.7 80.6 80.6 80.6 SHARE PRICE AND TRADING Share price, year high, EUR 12.55 12.27 12.27 13.02 12.00 Share price, year low, EUR 8.92 9.14 9.11 10.55 8.00 Share price, year average, EUR 10.96 10.86 10.87 11.76 10.10 Share price at 31 Dec, EUR 12.13 10.88 9.89 12.16 11.81 Number of shares traded (1,000) 64,827 74,877 75,018 64,937 88,346 % on number of shares 42 49 49 42 57 Market capitalization at 31 Dec, EUR million 4) 1,848.2 1,654.4 1,503.8 1,848.8 1,795.6 NUMBER OF SHARES AND SHARE CAPITAL Average number of shares, basic (1,000) 4) 152,314 152,059 152,048 152,039 152,037 Average number of shares, diluted (1,000) 4) 152,526 152,395 152,203 152,179 152,173 Number of shares at 31 Dec, basic (1,000) 4) 152,367 152,062 152,051 152,042 152,041 Number of shares at 31 Dec, diluted (1,000) 4) 152,619 152,544 152,373 152,091 152,090 Increase in number of shares (1,000) 305 11 9 1 11 Share capital, EUR million 221.8 221.8 221.8 221.8 221.8 2016 15 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Group key figures REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS OPERATING EXPENSES CASH FLOW EUR million 300 271 248 10% 14% 14% 250 200 196 200 176 150 2,363.3 17% 2,084.2 98 MEUR 100 MEUR 72 74 75 38% 50 38% 0 69% -50 -54 -100 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Finland, domicile of the parent ■ Material and services ■ Net cash generated from operating company ■ Employee benefit expenses activities ■ Other Europe, Middle-East and Africa ■ Other operating expenses ■ Cash flow after investing activities ■ Americas ■ Asia Pacific CAPITAL EXPENDITURE BY SEGMENT EXCLUDING ACQUISITIONS INTEREST-BEARING NET LIABILITIES EUR million 700 642 634 600 22% 28% 532 486 500 456 212.6 45% 212.6 400 MEUR MEUR 300 18% 60% 200 27% 100 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Pulp & Paper ■ Maintenance ■ Oil & Mining ■ Improvement ■ Municipal & Industrial ■ Expansion DIVIDEND PER SHARE AND GEARING EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDEND YIELD 1) % EUR EUR 100 1.0 0.6 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.8 0.5 80 0.59 0.60 0.6 0.47 0.4 60 54 54 0.4 4.5 4.4 5.4 4.9 4.4 0.3 42 41 42 40 0.2 0.12 0.2 0 20 0.1 -0.2 -0.21 0 -0.4 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Dividend per share 1) Dividend yield, % 1) 1) The dividend for 2016 is the Board of Directors' proposal to the Annual General Meeting. 16 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Definitions of key figures DEFINITIONS OF KEY FIGURES FINANCIAL FIGURES NET FINANCIAL COST, % (Finance costs, net dividend income exchange rate differences) x 100 Interest-bearing net liabilities 2) OPERATIVE EBITDA Operating profit (EBIT) + depreciation and amortization + impairments NET WORKING CAPITAL items affecting comparability Inventories + trade receivables + other receivables, excluding derivatives, accrued interest income and other financing items ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY1) trade payables other liabilities, excluding derivatives, accrued Restructuring and streamlining programs + transaction and interest expenses and other financing items integration expenses in acquisitions + divestment of businesses and other disposals + other items CAPITAL EMPLOYED Property, plant and equipment + intangible assets + net working OPERATIVE EBIT capital + investments in associates Operating profit (EBIT) items affecting comparability INTEREST-BEARING NET LIABILITIES Interest-bearing liabilities cash and cash equivalents PER SHARE FIGURES EQUITY RATIO, % EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Total equity x 100 Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent Total assets prepayments received Average number of shares GEARING, % NET CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES PER Interest-bearing net liabilities x 100 SHARE Total equity Net cash generated from operating activities Average number of shares INTEREST COVER Operating profit + depreciation, amortization and impairments DIVIDEND PER SHARE Finance costs, net Dividend paid Number of shares at 31 Dec RETURN ON INVESTMENTS (ROI), % (Profit before tax + interest expenses + other financial expenses) x 100 DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO, % (Total assets non-interest-bearing liabilities) 2) Dividend per share x 100 Earnings per share (EPS) RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE), % Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent x 100 DIVIDEND YIELD, % Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent 2) Dividend per share x 100 Share price at 31 Dec CASH FLOW RETURN ON INVESTMENT (CFROI), % Net cash generated from operating activities x 100 EQUITY PER SHARE (Total assets interest-free liabilities) 2) Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent at 31 Dec Number of shares at 31 Dec CASH FLOW AFTER INVESTING ACTIVITIES Net cash generated from operating activities + net cash used in SHARE PRICE, YEAR AVERAGE investing activities Shares traded (EUR) Shares traded (volume) OPERATIVE RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (OPERATIVE ROCE ), % PRICE PER EARNINGS PER SHARE (P / E) (Operative EBIT + share of profit or loss of associates) x 100 3) Share price at 31 Dec Capital employed 4) Earnings per share (EPS) RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE), % PRICE PER EQUITY PER SHARE (Operating profit + share of the results of associates) x 100 3) Share price at 31 Dec Capital employed 4) Equity per share attributable to equity owners of the parent CAPITAL TURNOVER PRICE PER NET CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATING Revenue ACTIVITIES PER SHARE Capital employed 4) Share price at 31 Dec Net cash generated from operating activities per share INTEREST-BEARING NET LIABILITIES / EBITDA Interest-bearing net liabilities SHARE TURNOVER, % Operating profit (EBIT) + depreciation and amortization + impairments Number of shares traded x 100 Average number of shares 1) Non-GAAP measures excludes the effects of significant items of income and expenses which may have an impact on the comparability in the financial reporting of Kemira Group. Restructuring and streamlining programs; transaction and integration expenses in acquisition; divestments of businesses and other disposals are considered to be the most common items affecting comparability. 2) Average 3) Operating profit and share of profit or loss of associates taken into account for a rolling 12-month period ending at the end of the review period. 4) 12-month rolling average 2016 17 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Income Statement (EUR million) CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT (IFRS) Year ended 31 December Note 2016 2015 Revenue 2 2,363.3 2,373.1 Other operating income 3 5.1 7.1 Operating expenses 4, 5 -2,084.2 -2,116.4 EBITDA 284.2 263.8 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 6, 11, 12, 13 -137.2 -131.2 Operating profit (EBIT) 147.0 132.6 Finance income 7 9.5 5.2 Finance expense 7 -27.5 -33.9 Exchange differences 7 -1.1 -2.1 Finance costs, net 7 -19.1 -30.8 Share of the results of associates 2, 8 0.1 0.3 Profit before tax 128.0 102.1 Income taxes 9 -30.1 -24.9 Net profit for the period 97.9 77.2 Net profit attributable to Equity owners of the parent 91.8 71.0 Non-controlling interests 18 6.1 6.2 Net profit for the period 97.9 77.2 Earnings per share for net profit attributable to the equity owners of the parent company (EUR per share) Basic and diluted 10 0.60 0.47 The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 18 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (EUR million) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (IFRS) Year ended 31 December Note 2016 2015 Net profit for the period 97.9 77.2 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Available-for-sale financial assets -31.6 -21.0 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 11.3 26.2 Cash flow hedges 8.5 -2.5 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements on defined benefit plans -10.7 35.9 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 9, 18 -22.5 38.6 Total comprehensive income for the period 75.4 115.8 Total comprehensive income attributable to Equity owners of the parent 69.6 109.6 Non-controlling interests 18 5.8 6.2 Total comprehensive income for the period 75.4 115.8 Items in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are disclosed net of tax. The income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in Note 9. The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 2016 19 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Balance Sheet (EUR million) CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (IFRS) As at 31 December Note 2016 2015 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Goodwill 11 522.4 518.3 Other intangible assets 12 115.9 134.7 Property, plant and equipment 13 915.6 815.3 Investments in associates 8 1.2 1.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 14, 15 202.5 271.6 Deferred tax assets 21 27.5 29.5 Other investments 15 4.4 5.8 Receivables of defined benefit pension 22 32.1 48.9 Total non-current assets 1,821.6 1,825.3 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 16 216.9 207.0 Interest-bearing receivables 15, 17 0.2 0.2 Trade receivables and other receivables 15, 17 386.1 389.8 Current income tax assets 22.7 21.4 Cash and cash equivalents 28 173.4 151.5 Total current assets 799.3 769.9 Total assets 2,620.9 2,595.2 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY 18 Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent Share capital 221.8 221.8 Share premium 257.9 257.9 Fair value and other reserves 72.2 94.2 Unrestricted equity reserve 196.3 196.3 Translation differences -0.8 -12.4 Treasury shares -20.0 -22.0 Retained earnings 442.6 444.5 Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent 1,170.0 1,180.3 Non-controlling interests 12.9 12.9 Total equity 1,182.9 1,193.2 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Interest-bearing liabilities 15, 19, 20 649.5 670.9 Other liabilities 15 21.4 21.4 Deferred tax liabilities 21 63.2 55.9 Liabilities of defined benefit pension 22 79.8 77.3 Provisions 23 26.5 28.1 Total non-current liabilities 840.4 853.6 CURRENT LIABILITIES Interest-bearing liabilities 15, 19, 20 157.9 122.7 Trade payables and other liabilities 15, 24 405.2 388.7 Current income tax liabilities 20.3 22.1 Provisions 23 14.2 14.9 Total current liabilities 597.6 548.4 Total liabilities 1,438.0 1,402.0 Total equity and liabilities 2,620.9 2,595.2 The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 20 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow (EUR million) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW (IFRS) As at 31 December Note 2016 2015 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net profit for the period 97.9 77.2 Adjustments for Depreciation, amortization and impairments 6, 11, 12, 13 137.2 131.2 Income taxes 9 30.1 24.8 Finance costs, net 7 19.1 30.8 Share of the results of associates 8 -0.1 -0.3 Other non-cash income and expenses not involving cash flow 0.3 2.6 Operating profit before change in net working capital 284.5 266.3 Change in net working capital Increase (-) / decrease (+) in inventories -4.6 7.7 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in trade and other receivables 13.3 -28.9 Increase (+) / decrease (-) in trade payables and other liabilities 20.8 41.9 Change in net working capital 29.5 20.7 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 314.0 287.0 Interest and other finance cost paid -27.1 -26.3 Interest and other finance income received 1.1 4.3 Realized exchange gains and losses 5.6 -5.2 Dividends received 0.2 0.1 Income taxes paid -23.2 -12.3 Net cash generated from operating activities 270.6 247.6 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchases of subsidiaries and asset acquisitions, net of cash acquired 26 2.0 -123.4 Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets 0.0 -4.2 Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -212.6 -177.5 Change in long-term loan receivables decrease (+) / increase (-) 0.9 0.4 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 25 0.0 1.1 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets 35.4 0.1 Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 1.5 2.1 Net cash used in investing activities -172.8 -301.4 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from non-current interest-bearing liabilities (+) 50.0 250.0 Repayment from non-current interest-bearing liabilities (-) -48.1 -86.0 Short-term financing, net increase (+) / decrease (-) 6.8 9.9 Dividends paid -86.5 -86.6 Other finance items 0.0 0.1 Net cash used in financing activities -77.8 87.4 Net decrease (-) / increase (+) in cash and cash equivalents 20.0 33.6 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec 173.4 151.5 Exchange gains (+) / losses (-) on cash and cash equivalents 1.9 -1.2 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 Jan 151.5 119.1 Net decrease (-) / increase (+) in cash and cash equivalents 20.0 33.6 The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 2016 21 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (EUR million) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (IFRS) EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT Share premium Fair value and Unrestricted Share capital Total equity Exchange NonTreasury Retained other reserves controlling equity reserve differences shares earnings Total interests Equity at January 1, 2015 221.8 257.9 117.4 196.3 -38.6 -22.1 418.0 1,150.7 12.6 1,163.3 Net profit for the period 71.0 71.0 6.2 77.2 Available-for-sale financial assets -21.0 -21.0 -21.0 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 26.2 26.2 26.2 Cash flow hedges -2.5 -2.5 -2.5 Remeasurements on defined benefit plans 35.9 35.9 35.9 Total comprehensive income -23.5 26.2 106.9 109.6 6.2 115.8 Transactions with owners Dividends paid -80.6 -80.6 -5.9 -86.5 Treasury shares issued to the Board of Directors 0.1 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments 0.7 0.7 0.7 Transfers in equity 0.3 -0.3 0.0 0.0 Other changes -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 Transactions with owners 0.3 0.1 -80.4 -80.0 -5.9 -85.9 Equity at December 31, 2015 221.8 257.9 94.2 196.3 -12.4 -22.0 444.5 1,180.3 12.9 1,193.2 Equity at January 1, 2016 221.8 257.9 94.2 196.3 -12.4 -22.0 444.5 1,180.3 12.9 1,193.2 Net profit for the period 91.8 91.8 6.1 97.9 Available-for-sale financial assets -31.6 -31.6 -31.6 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 11.6 11.6 -0.3 11.3 Cash flow hedges 8.5 8.5 8.5 Remeasurements on defined benefit plans -10.7 -10.7 -10.7 Total comprehensive income -23.1 11.6 81.1 69.6 5.8 75.4 Transactions with owners Dividends paid -80.7 -80.7 -5.8 -86.5 Treasury shares issued to the target group of share-based incentive plan 1.9 1.9 1.9 Treasury shares issued to the Board of Directors 0.1 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 Transfers in equity 1.1 -1.1 0.0 0.0 Transactions with owners 1.1 2.0 -83.0 -79.9 -5.8 -85.7 Equity at December 31, 2016 221.8 257.9 72.2 196.3 -0.8 -20.0 442.6 1,170.0 12.9 1,182.9 The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 22 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1. THE GROUP’S ACCOUNTING Finnish accounting and corporate legislation, which 1 POLICIES FOR THE supplement the IFRS regulations. 2 The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL in million euros and have been prepared based on the 3 STATEMENTS historical cost excluding the items measured at fair value 4 that are available-for-sale financial assets, financial The principal accounting policies applied in the preparaassets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and 5 tion of these Consolidated Financial Statements are set share-based payments on the grant date. 6 out below. These policies have been consistently applied to The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. in conformity with the IFRS requires the use of certain criti7 cal accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s 8 GROUP PROFILE accounting policies. The areas which need a higher degree 9 of judgment and are significant to the Consolidated Kemira is a global chemicals company serving customers Financial Statements are described below in section 10 in water-intensive industries. The company provides “Critical accounting estimates and judgments”. 11 expertise in application know-how and chemicals that improve its customers’ water, energy and raw material 12 efficiency. Kemira’s three segments Pulp & Paper, Oil & CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND 13 Mining and Municipal & Industrial focus on customers in DISCLOSURES pulp & paper, oil & gas, mining and water treatment 14 respectively. NEW AND AMENDED IFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS 15 The Group’s parent company is Kemira Oyj. It is domiADOPTED IN 2016 ciled in Helsinki, Finland, and its registered address is The following new and revised IFRSs have been adopted in 16 Porkkalankatu 3, FI-00180 Helsinki, Finland. The parent these Consolidated Financial Statements. The application company is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. A copy of the of these new and revised IFRSs has not had any material 17 Consolidated Financial Statements is available at www. impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior 18 kemira.com. years but may affect the accounting for future transactions The Board of Directors of Kemira Oyj has approved the and events. 19 Financial Statements for publication at its meeting on • Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative. 20 February 7, 2017. Under the Finnish Limited Liability • Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Companies Act, the shareholders may accept or reject the Interests in Joint Operations. 21 Financial Statements at the General Meeting of Sharehold• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment 22 ers held after their publication. The meeting also has the Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception. power to make decision to amend the Financial State• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of 23 ments. Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation. 24 • IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants. • Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee 25 BASIS OF PREPARATION FOR THE Contributions. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle. 26 • Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle. 27 The Group has prepared its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with IAS and IFRS (International APPLICATION OF NEW AND REVISED IFRSs 28 Financial Reporting Standards) and the related SIC and IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE 29 IFRIC interpretations, issued by the IASB (International IASB has published the following new or revised standards Accounting Standards Board). In the Finnish Accounting and interpretations not yet adopted by the Group. The 30 Act and the statutes under it, the International Financial Group will adopt each standard as of the effective date, or 31 Reporting Standards refer to the endorsed standards and if the effective date is other than the first day of the their interpretations under the European Union Regulation reporting period, from the next reporting period beginning 32 No. 1606 / 2002 regarding the adoption of the International after the effective date. 33 Financial Reporting Standards applicable within the • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective in the EU for Community. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018). 34 Statements also comply with the requirements of the IFRS 9 will supersede current IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. IFRS introduced 2016 23 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note new requirements for the classification and measure1, 2018. The Group has assessed the impacts of the ment of financial assets and introduces a new impairIFRS 15 standard on the financial reporting and the ment model for financial assets, which is based on work will continue in 2017. The Group estimates that expected credit losses. Recognition and measurement the new standard will not have a material impact on the 1 of financial liabilities will mainly continue to be on the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Group’s same bases as currently adopted under IAS 39. The new revenue mainly consists of the sale of chemical 2 general hedge accounting requirements retain the products. The revenue recognition for these sales 3 three types of hedge accounting mechanisms currently remain substantially unchanged and occurs at the available in IAS 39. However, greater flexibility has been point when control of a sale of the products is trans4 introduced to the types of transactions eligible for ferred to the customer. Shipping and handling services 5 hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types of are recognized in conjunction with the sale of the instruments that qualify as hedging instruments and products and they are not treated as separate perfor6 the types of risk components of non-financial items mance obligations. 7 that are eligible for hedge accounting. • IFRS 16 Leases (effective for annual periods beginning In the previous financial years, the Group has on or after 1 January 2019). IFRS 16 provides a compre8 applied cash flow hedge accounting for electricity hensive model for the identification of lease arrange9 forward contracts in accordance with IAS 39. IFRS 9 will ments and their treatment in the financial statements change the assessment of the effectiveness of electricof both lessees and lessors. It will supersede the 10 ity derivatives. In addition, expected credit losses of current guidance including IAS 17 Leases and the loans and receivables will be calculated and recognized related interpretations when it becomes effective. IFRS 11 in accordance with the requirements of the new 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the 12 standard. The Group´s analyzes of IFRS 9 impacts will basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a be completed in the year 2017. The Group estimates customer. Distinction of operating leases (off balance 13 that the new standard will not have material impact on sheet) and finance leases (on balance sheet) are 14 the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Group will removed for lessee accounting, and is replaced by a apply IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018. model where a right-of-use asset and a corresponding 15 • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers liability have to be recognized for all leases by lessees 16 (effective in the EU for annual periods beginning on or (i.e. all on balance sheet) except for short-term leases after 1 January 2018). IFRS 15 establishes a single and leases of low value assets. In contrast to lessee 17 comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting accounting, IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the 18 for revenue arising from contracts with customers. IFRS lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17, and contin15 will supersede the current revenue recognition ues to require a lessor to classify a lease either as an 19 guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction operating lease or a finance lease. In addition, IFRS 16 Contracts and the related interpretations when it requires extensive disclosures. On the reporting date 20 becomes effective. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that December 31, 2016, the Group’s operating lease 21 an entity should recognize revenue to depict the commitments of EUR 211.2 million are disclosed in the transfer of promised goods or services to customers an Note 29. The Group continues to identify and assess the 22 amount that reflects the consideration to which the existing operating lease agreements and right-of-use 23 entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those assets and lease liabilities to be recognized in the goods or services. Under IFRS 15, an entity recognizes balance sheet on the basis of these agreements. IFRS 24 revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is 16 standard will change the accounting practices 25 satisfied, i.e. when ‘control’ of the good or service relating the lease agreements. The Group estimates underlying the particular performance obligation is that this will have an impact on the balance sheet and 26 transferred to the customer. Furthermore, extensive key figures, as well as the classification of the income 27 disclosures are required by IFRS 15. statement and cash flow. The assessment of the Quarterly results for the financial year 2018 and the impact of IFRS 16 is not completed and will continue in 28 annual Consolidated Financial Statements 2018 will be 2017. The standard has not yet been endorsed by the prepared in compliance with IFRS 15. The standard EU. 29 guidance permits two methods of adoption: full • IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions 30 retrospective method or modified retrospective and Advance Consideration (effective for annual periods method. The Group expects to adopt the IFRS 15 beginning on or after 1 January 2018). The interpreta31 standard using the modified retrospective method for tion issued on December 2016 provides guidance on 32 the existing and new sales contracts on January 1, “the date of the transaction” when an entity pays or 2018. The information from the prior years 2016 and received consideration in advance in a foreign currency. 33 2017 will be disclosed in accordance with the existing In 2017, the Group will assess the potential impact of 34 revenue recognition standards IAS 18 and IAS 11. the interpretation. The interpretation has not yet been Possible cumulative effect of the transition to the IFRS endorsed by the EU. 15 standard will be recognized in the equity on January 24 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) • Other already published, but not yet effective under the If the parent company’s ownership interest in the Note new standards, standard amendments or IFRIC subsidiary is reduced but the control is retained, the interpretation are not expected to have impact on the transactions are treated as equity transactions. When the Group's financial reporting. Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair 1 value, and the difference is recognized in profit or loss. 2 CONSOLIDATION ASSOCIATES (NOTE 8) 3 SUBSIDIARIES (NOTE 33) Associated companies are companies over which the Group 4 The Consolidated Financial Statements include the parent exercises significant influence (voting rights generally company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are all entities being 20–50 percent) but not control. Holdings in associ5 over which the Group has control (voting rights generally ated companies are consolidated using the equity method. 6 being over 50 percent). The Group controls an entity when If the Group’s share of the associate’s losses exceeds the the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns carrying amount of the investment, the exceeding losses 7 from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to will not be consolidated unless the Group has a commitaffect those returns through its power over the entity. ment to fulfill the obligations on behalf of the associate. 8 Subsidiaries become fully consolidated from the date The Group’s share of the associated companies’ net profit 9 on which the control is transferred to the Group. They are for the financial year is stated as a separate item in the de-consolidated from the date on which the control ceases. consolidated income statement after operating profit, in 10 All intra-group transactions are eliminated. Intra-group proportion to the Group’s holdings. The Group’s share of its 11 shareholdings are eliminated by using the acquisition associates’ movements in other comprehensive income is method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition recognized in Group’s other comprehensive income. The 12 of a subsidiary is defined as an aggregate of the fair values Group’s associates do not have such items for financial 13 of the assets transferred, the liabilities assumed and the years 2015–2016. equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration 14 transferred may include the fair value of any asset or 15 liability resulting from the contingent consideration FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as 16 incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and Items included in the financial statements of each of the contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination Group’s entities are measured by using the currency of the 17 are measured at their fair values on the acquisition date. primary economic environment in which the entity operates 18 On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recog(‘the functional currency’). The Consolidated Financial nizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at Statements are presented in euros, which is the Group’s 19 fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate presentation currency and the parent company’s functional 20 share of the acquiree’s net assets. currency. The amount that exceeds the aggregate of consideraIn the Consolidated Financial Statements, the income 21 tion transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into euro 22 in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any using the financial year’s average foreign currency previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value exchange rates, and the balance sheets are translated 23 of the Group’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded using the exchange rates quoted on the balance sheet date. 24 as goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net Retranslating the net profit for the period and the other assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain comprehensive income using different exchange rates in 25 purchase, the difference is recognized directly in the the income statement and in the balance sheet causes a income statement. translation difference recognized in equity in the balance 26 Net profit or loss for the financial year and other sheet; the change in this translation difference is pre27 comprehensive income attributable to the equity holders of sented under other comprehensive income. Goodwill and the parent and non-controlling interests are presented in fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of the 28 the income statement and in the statement of comprehenassets and liabilities that arise from the acquisition of a 29 sive income. The portion of equity attributable to nonforeign entity are accounted for as part of the assets and controlling interests is stated as an individual item liabilities of the foreign entity, and translated into euro at 30 separately from the equity to the equity holders of the the rate quoted on the balance sheet date. 31 parent. Total comprehensive income shows separately the Translation differences in the loans granted to foreign total amounts attributable to the equity holders of the subsidiaries in replacement of their equity are treated as 32 parent and to non-controlling interests. The Group recogan increase or decrease in other comprehensive income. 33 nizes negative non-controlling interests, unless nonWhen the Group ceases to have control over a subsidiary, controlling interest do not have a binding obligation to the accumulated translation difference is transferred into 34 cover the losses up to the amount of their investment. the income statement as part of gain or loss on the sale. 2016 25 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note In their day-to-day accounting, the Group companies using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that translate foreign currency transactions into their functional are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will currency at the exchange rates quoted on the transaction be paid, and that have the terms to maturity approximating date. In the Financial Statements, foreign currency denomto the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries 1 inated receivables and liabilities are measured at the where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market exchange rates quoted on the balance sheet date, and rates on government bonds are used. 2 non-monetary items using the rates quoted on the transacActuarial gains and losses arising from experience 3 tion date. Any foreign exchange gains and losses related to adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are business operations are treated as adjustments to sales charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive 4 and purchases. Exchange rate differences associated with income in the period in which they arise. 5 financing transactions and the hedging of the Group’s Current service costs are included in the Consolidated overall foreign currency position are stated in foreign Income Statement as the employee benefits expenses and 6 exchange gains or losses under financial income and net interest cost on finance income and finance expense. 7 expenses. Past-service costs are recognized immediately in income statements. 8 For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contri9 REVENUE RECOGNITION butions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary 10 Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once received or receivable, and represents the total invoicing the contributions have been paid. The contributions are 11 value of products sold and services rendered less; sales recognized as employee benefit expense when they are 12 tax, discounts and foreign exchange differences in trade due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to receivables as adjusting items. the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future 13 The revenue from the sale of goods is recognized in the payments is available. 14 income statement when the major risks and rewards related to the ownership of the goods have been trans15 ferred to the buyer. Revenue from services is recognized in SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (NOTE 5, 31) 16 the accounting period in which the services are rendered. The Group has equity-settled share-based compensation 17 plans under which the Group receives services from 18 PENSION OBLIGATIONS (NOTE 22) employees as consideration for equity instrument of the Group. The potential rewards are provided partly in shares 19 The Group has post-employment schemes, including both and partly in cash. The potential reward provided in shares defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans in is recognized as a personnel expense in the income 20 accordance with the local conditions and practices in the statement and in the equity. Correspondingly, the rewards 21 countries in which it operates. Pension plans are generally provided in cash are recognized as a personnel expense in funded through contributions to insurance companies or a the income statement and in liabilities. The total expense is 22 separate pension fund. recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over 23 A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate Share-based compensation expense is determined on 24 entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to the grant date based on the Group's estimate of the 25 pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufnumber of shares that are expected to vest at the end of ficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to the vesting period. Based on the vesting conditions, the 26 employee service in the current and prior periods. A Group revises its estimates of the number of shares 27 defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined expected to vest based on the balance sheet date. It contribution plan. recognizes the potential impact of the revision to original 28 Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of estimates in the income statement as a personnel expense, pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirewith the corresponding adjustment made to equity and 29 ment, usually dependent on one or more factors such as liabilities at fair value. 30 compensation and years of service. The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect 31 to the defined benefit pension plans is the present value of CURRENT AND DEFERRED INCOME TAX 32 the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting (NOTE 9, 21) period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 33 benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent The Group’s tax expense for the period comprises current 34 actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The tax, adjustments prior tax periods and deferred tax. Tax is present value of the defined benefit obligation is deterrecognized in the income statement, except in the case it mined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income 26 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized Development costs are capitalized as intangible assets Note in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. when it can be shown that a development project will The current income tax charge is calculated based on generate probable future economic benefit, and the costs tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance attributable to the development project can reliably be sheet date in the countries where the company and its measured. Capitalized development costs are presented as 1 subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Mana separate item and amortized over their useful lives. 2 agement periodically evaluates positions taken in tax Capitalized development costs include material, labor and returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax testing costs, and any capitalized borrowing costs that are 3 regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes directly attributable to bringing the asset ready for its 4 provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts intended use. Other development costs that do not meet expected to be paid to the tax authorities. these criteria are recognized as an expense as incurred. 5 Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability Development costs previously recognized as an expense 6 method, on temporary differences arising between the tax are not recognized as an asset in the subsequent periods. bases of the assets and liabilities and their carrying Other intangible assets include for instance software 7 amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements. and software licenses as well as patents, technologies, However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they non-compete agreements and customer relationships 8 arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a bases acquired in business combinations. 9 transaction other than a business combination that at the Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and intangible time of the transaction affects neither accounting profit assets (with definite useful lives) are measured at cost less 10 nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is deteraccumulated depreciation and amortization and any 11 mined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or impairment losses. The Group has no intangible assets that substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are have an indefinite useful life other than goodwill. 12 expected to apply when the related deferred income tax Land is not depreciated. Depreciation / amortization is 13 asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is calculated on a straight-line basis over the asset’s useful settled. life. The most commonly applied depreciation / amortization 14 Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the periods according to the Group’s accounting policies are: 15 extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be PP&E 16 utilized. • Buildings and constructions 20–40 years Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differ• Machinery and equipment 3–15 years 17 ences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associ18 ates, except for deferred income tax liability where the Intangible assets timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is • Development costs a maximum of 8 years 19 controlled by the Group and it is probable that the tempo• Customer relationships 5–7 years 20 rary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. • Technologies 5–10 years Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset • Non-compete agreements 3–5 years 21 when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current • Other intangible assets 5–10 years 22 tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to the The residual values and useful lives of the assets are 23 income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on reviewed at least at the end of each financial year. Gains 24 either the same tax entity or different taxable entities and losses on the sale of non-current assets are included where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net in other operating income and expenses, respectively. 25 basis. Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of a qualifying asset are capitalized as part of 26 the cost of the asset in question when it is probable that 27 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, they will generate future economic benefit and the costs PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (NOTE 11–13) can be reliably measured. The costs of major inspections or 28 the overhaul of asset performed at regular intervals and 29 Goodwill arises from business combinations. Goodwill identified as separate components are capitalized and represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the depreciated over their useful lives. 30 amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for 31 the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity use and it ceases at the moment when the asset is classiinterest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifified under IFRS 5 as held for sale or is include in disposal 32 able net assets acquired. Goodwill is measured at cost less group. 33 accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is any indication 34 that an asset may be impaired. For this purpose, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units. 2016 27 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note GOVERNMENT GRANTS (NOTE 4) CATEGORY FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MEASUREMENT Financial Currency forward contracts, Fair value Government grants for investments are recognized as a assets at fair currency options, currency deduction from the carrying amount of these assets. The value through swaps, interest rate forwards 1 grants are recognized in the income statement as smaller profit or loss , interest rate futures, interest rate options, interest rate depreciations over the asset’s useful life. Government swaps, electricity forwards, 2 grants for research activities are deducted from expenses. certificates of deposit, commercial papers, units 3 in mutual funds, embedded derivatives 4 LEASES (NOTE 21, 29) Loans and Non-current loan receivables, (Amortized) cost 5 receivables bank deposits, trade Leases involving tangible assets, in which the Group acts receivables and other 6 receivables as a lessee, are classified as finance leases if all of the 7 risks and rewards of ownership transfer substantially to Available-forShares, bond investments Fair value the Group. sale financial 8 At the commencement of the lease term, the finance assets 9 lease assets are recognized at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH 10 lease payments. These assets and related rental obligaINCOME STATEMENTS tions are presented as part of the Group’s non-current Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are 11 assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In respect to the measured at fair value. Fair value is the amount for which 12 finance lease agreements, depreciation on the leased an asset could be exchanged or loans paid between assets and interest expenses from the associated liability knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transac13 are shown in the income statement. Rents paid on the tion. These derivative contracts to which hedge accounting 14 basis of operating leases are expensed on a straight-line in accordance with IAS 39 is not applied are classified as basis over the lease terms. financial assets held for trading. These are classified as 15 When the Group is a lessor, it recognizes assets held financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. In the 16 under the finance lease as receivables in the balance balance sheet, these derivative contracts are shown under sheet. Assets held under operating leases are included in prepaid expenses and accrued income and accrued 17 PP&E. expenses and prepaid income. Any gains or losses arising 18 Also the arrangements that are not leases in their legal from changes in fair value are recognized through profit or form but convey the rights to use assets in return for a loss on the transaction date. 19 payment or series of payments are treated as leases. LOANS AND RECEIVABLES 20 Loans and receivables include non-current receivables 21 INVENTORIES (NOTE 16) carried at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method and accounting for any impairment. 22 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net 23 realizable value. Costs are determined on a first-in first-out AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS (NOTE 14) (FIFO) basis or by using a weighted average cost formula, Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair 24 depending on the nature of the inventory. The cost of value if it is considered that fair value can be determined 25 finished goods and work in progress include the proportion reliably. Unrealized changes in fair value of financial assets of production overheads of the normal capacity. The net available for sale are recognized in other comprehensive 26 realizable value is the sales price received in the ordinary income and presented under equity in the fair value reserve 27 course of business less the estimated costs for completing taking the tax effect into account. Accumulated changes in the asset and the sales costs. fair value are transferred to the income statement as a 28 reclassification adjustment when the investment is divested or it has been impaired to the extent that an 29 FINANCIAL ASSETS, FINANCIAL LIABILITIES impairment loss has to be recognized. Available-for-sale 30 AND DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS financial assets include non-listed companies, the shareholdings in Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO) and Teollisuuden 31 When a financial asset or a financial liability is initially Voima Oyj (TVO) representing the largest investments. 32 recognized on the trade date, it is measured at cost, which PVO and its subsidiary TVO comprise a private electricequals the fair value of the consideration given or received. ity-generating group owned by Finnish manufacturing and 33 The Group’s financial assets are classified for subsequent power companies, to which it supplies electricity at cost. 34 measurement as financial assets at fair value through PVO Group owns and operates, among others, two nuclear profit or loss, loans and receivables issued by the Group, power plant units in Olkiluoto in the municipality of and available-for-sale financial assets. Eurajoki. The Group has A and C series shares in TVO and A, 28 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) B, C, G and M series shares in PVO. Different share series include derivatives to which hedge accounting is not Note entitle the shareholder to electricity generated by different applied. power plants. The owners of each share series are responsible for the fixed costs of the series in question in proporCATEGORY FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MEASUREMENT tion to the number of the shares, regardless of whether 1 they use their power or energy share or not, and for variable Financial Currency forward contracts, Fair value liabilities currency options, currency 2 costs in proportion to the amount of energy used. at fair value swaps, interest rate forwards, Kemira Oyj’s holding in PVO Group that entitles to the through profit interest rate futures, interest 3 electricity from completed power plants is measured at fair or loss rate options, interest rate swaps, electricity forwards, 4 value based on the discounted cash flow resulting from the embedded derivatives difference between the market price of electricity and the 5 cost price. The forward electricity price quotations in Other Current and non-current (Amortized) cost financial loans, pension loans, bond 6 Finland area published by the Nordic Electricity Exchange liabilities and trade payables have been used as the market price for electricity of the 7 first five years and after this the development of the prices based on a fundamental simulation model of the Nordic DERIVATIVES (NOTE 27) 8 electricity market. The impact of inflation in the coming The fair values of currency, interest rate and commodity 9 years is taken into account in the price of electricity and derivatives, currency options and units in mutual funds as the cost prices. The cost prices are determined by each well as publicly traded shares are based on prices quoted 10 share series. Future cash flows have been discounted in active markets on the balance sheet date. The value of 11 based on the estimated useful lifecycles of the plants other financial instruments measured at fair value is related to each share series, and hydro power includes determined on the basis of valuation models using infor12 terminal value. The discount rate has been calculated using mation available in the financial market. 13 the annually determined average weighted cost of capital. Changes in the value of forward contracts are calculated by measuring the contracts against the forward 14 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (NOTE 28) exchange rates on the balance sheet date and comparing 15 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, them with the counter values calculated through the demand deposits and other short-term, highly liquid forward exchange rates on the date of entry into the 16 investments. Items classified as cash and cash equivalents forward contracts. The fair value of interest rate derivatives have a maximum maturity of three months from the date of is determined using the market value of similar instru17 purchase. Credit facilities in use are included in current ments on the balance sheet date. Other derivatives are 18 interest-bearing liabilities. measured at the market price on the balance sheet date. All of the derivatives open on the balance sheet date 19 IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS are measured at their fair values. As a rule, fair value 20 The Group assesses any impairment losses on its financial changes from open derivative contracts are recognized instruments on each balance sheet date. An impairment of through profit or loss in the Consolidated Financial 21 a financial asset is recognized when an event with a Statements. The number of embedded derivatives used by 22 negative effect on the future cash flows from the investthe Group is low. ment has occurred. For items measured at amortized cost, Other financial liabilities are initially recognized in the 23 the amount of the impairment loss equals the difference balance sheet at the initial value of received net assets 24 between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value deducted with direct costs. Later, these financial liabilities of estimated future cash flows from the receivable. This is are measured at amortized cost, and the difference 25 discounted at the financial asset’s original effective between the received net assets and amortizations is interest rate. For items measured at fair value, the fair recognized as interest costs over the loan term. 26 value determines the amount of impairment. Impairment 27 charges are recognized in the income statement. The Group sells certain trade receivables to finance HEDGE ACCOUNTING (NOTE 27) 28 companies within the framework of limits stipulated in the 29 agreement. The credit risk associated with these sold According to IAS 39, hedge accounting refers to a method receivables and contractual rights to the financial assets in of accounting aimed at allocating one or more hedging 30 question are transferred from the Group on the selling date. instruments in such a way that their fair value offsets, in 31 The related expenses are recognized in the financial full or in part, the changes in the fair value or cash flows of expenses. the hedged item. Hedge accounting is applied to hedging 32 the interest rate risk, commodity risk and fair value. 33 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Hedge effectiveness is monitored as required by IAS 39. Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at Effectiveness refers to the capacity of a hedging instru34 fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabiliment to offset changes in the fair value of the hedged item ties. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss or cash flows from a hedged transaction, which are due to 2016 29 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note the realization of the risk being hedged. A hedging relationPROVISIONS (NOTE 23) ship is considered to be highly effective when the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument offsets changes in Provisions for restructuring costs, personnel related costs, the cash flows attributable to the hedged items in the environmental obligations, legal claims, and onerous 1 range of 80–125 percent. Hedge effectiveness is assessed contracts are recognized in the balance sheet when the both prospectively and retrospectively. Hedge effectiveGroup has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 2 ness testing is repeated on each balance sheet date. result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of 3 Hedge accounting is discontinued when the criteria for resources will be required to settle the obligation and a hedge accounting are no longer fulfilled. Gains or losses reliable estimate of the amount of this obligation can be 4 recognized in other comprehensive income and presented made. A restructuring provision is recognized when there is 5 under equity are derecognized and transferred immediately a detailed and appropriate plan prepared for it and the in the income statement, if the hedged item is sold or falls implementation of the plan has begun or has been notified 6 due. However, gains or losses arising from changes in the to those whom the restructuring concerns. 7 fair value of those derivatives not fulfilling the hedge The amount recognized as a provision is the present accounting criteria under IAS 39 are recognized directly in value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle 8 the income statement. the obligation on the balance sheet date using a pre-tax 9 At the inception of a hedge, the Group has documented rate that reflects current market assessments of the time the existence of the hedging relationship, including the value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. 10 identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, the 11 objectives of risk management and the strategy for CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (NOTE 29) 12 undertaking hedging, as well as the description of how hedge effectiveness is assessed. Contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from 13 past events and whose existence will be confirmed by the 14 CASH FLOW HEDGING occurrence of uncertain future events not wholly within the Cash flow hedging is used to hedge against variability in control of the Group or a present obligation that it is not 15 cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic 16 a recognized asset or liability in the balance sheet or a benefits will be required to settle the obligation; or the highly probable forecast transaction. Interest rate and amount of the obligation cannot be measured with suf17 commodity derivatives are used as investment instruments ficient reliability. Contingent liability is disclosed in the 18 in cash flow hedging. Interest rate and commodity derivanotes. tives are used as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges. 19 Cash flow hedge accounting, specified in IAS 39 is applied by the Group to only selected hedging items. Changes in NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND 20 the fair value of derivative instruments associated with DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 21 cash flow hedge are recognized in other comprehensive income (including the tax effect) and presented under Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale 22 equity, providing that they fulfill the criteria set for hedge when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally 23 accounting and are based on effective hedging. The through a sale transaction and a sale transaction and a ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging sale is considered highly probable. Since the time of 24 instrument is recognized under financial items in the classification, the assets are valued at the lower of carrying 25 income statement. Derivatives not fulfilling the hedge amount and fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation on accounting criteria are recognized in financial items these assets discontinues at the time of classification. 26 through profit or loss. Non-current assets classified as held for sale are disclosed 27 separately in the balance sheet. FAIR VALUE HEDGING A discontinued operation is a component of the Group 28 Fair value hedges are related to the fixed rate bond loan. that has either been disposed of, or is classified as held for Interest rate derivatives are used as instruments in fair sale, and meets one of the following criteria: 29 value hedging. The fair value of the hedging derivative • it represents a separate major line of business or 30 contracts of change in fair value are recognized in the geographical area of operations, income statement and the hedged item's book value is • it is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a 31 adjusted through profit or loss to the extent that the hedge separate major line of business or geographical area of 32 is effective. operations, or • it is a subsidiary that has been acquired exclusively 33 with a prospect of reselling. 34 The profit or loss of the discontinued operation is stated as a separate item in the consolidated income statement and 30 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) statement of comprehensive income. Assets held for sale nominal value (zero). A provision for the fulfillment of the Note and related to other comprehensive income items are obligation to return allowances is recognized if the free-ofrecognized in the balance sheet separately from other charge allowances are not sufficient to cover actual items. emissions. The Group’s consolidated balance sheet shows no items related to emissions allowances when the volume 1 of actual emissions is lower than that of the free-of-charge 2 IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS emissions allowances and the Group has not bought (NOTE 11) allowances in the market. 3 4 On each balance sheet date, the Group’s assets are assessed to determine whether there is any indication of TREASURY SHARES (NOTE 18) 5 an asset’s impairment. If any indication of impairment 6 exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or the cashPurchases of own shares (treasury shares), including the generating unit is calculated on the basis of the value in related costs, are deducted directly from equity in the 7 use or the net selling price. Annual impairment tests cover Consolidated Financial Statements. goodwill and intangible assets not yet ready for use. 8 A cash-generating unit has been defined as an operat9 ing segment. Operating segments are Pulp & Paper, Oil & DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION Mining and Municipal & Industrial. Two or more operating 10 segments are not combined one reportable segment. Any dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is not 11 Goodwill impairment is tested by comparing the reportable deducted from distributable equity until approved by the segment’s (Pulp & Paper, Oil & Mining and Municipal & shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 12 Industrial) recoverable amount with its carrying amount. 13 The Group does not have intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. All goodwill has been EARNINGS PER SHARE (NOTE 10) 14 allocated to the reportable segments. 15 The recoverable amount of a reportable segment is Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit defined as its value in use, which consists of the disattributable to equity owners of the parent company by the 16 counted future cash flows to the unit. Estimates of future weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue cash flows are based on continuing use of an asset and on during the period excluding ordinary shares purchased by 17 the latest five-year forecasts by the business unit’s Kemira Oyj and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings 18 management. The annual growth rate used to extrapolate per share is calculated by the adjusting the weighted cash flows subsequent to the forecast period is assumed average number of ordinary shares plus diluted effect of all 19 to be zero. Cash flow estimates do not include the effects potential ordinary shares dilutive such as shares from the 20 of improved asset performance, investments or future share-based payments. reorganizations. 21 An impairment loss is recognized, whenever the 22 carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is JUDGMENTS 23 recognized in the income statement. Note 11 provides 24 more detailed information on impairment testing. Estimates and judgments are continuously evaluated and If there has been a positive change in the estimates they are based on previous experience and other factors, 25 used to determine an asset's recoverable amount since the such as expectations of future events that are expected to last impairment loss was recognized, an impairment loss be reasonable under the circumstances. 26 recognized previously is reversed only to the extent that The Group makes estimates and assumptions concern27 the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying ing the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by amount that would have been determined if no impairment definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The 28 loss had been recognized. An impairment loss for goodwill estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of 29 is never reversed. causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 30 addressed below. 31 EMISSIONS ALLOWANCES (NOTE 30) ESTIMATED IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL 32 The Group holds assigned emissions allowances, under the The impairment tests of goodwill and other assets include 33 EU emissions trading system, at its Helsingborg site in determining future cash flows which, with regard to the Sweden. Carbon dioxide allowances are accounted for as most significant assumptions, are based on gross margin 34 intangible assets measured at cost. Carbon dioxide levels, discount rates and the projected period. Major allowances received free of charge are measured at their adverse developments in cash flows and interest rates may 2016 31 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note necessitate the recognition of an impairment loss. More 2. SEGMENT INFORMATION information on goodwill impairment testing, as well as the assumptions used in the sensitivity analysis is presented The reporting segments presented in the segment informain Note 11. tion are: 1 ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE OF SHARES IN PVO GROUP 2 The Group’s investments include non-listed shares, PULP & PAPER 3 holdings in PVO Group representing the largest of these. The Group’s shareholding in the company is measured at Pulp & Paper has unique expertise in applying chemicals 4 fair value, based on the discounted cash flow resulting and supporting pulp & paper producers in innovating and 5 from the difference between the market price of electricity constantly improving their operational efficiency. The and the cost price. Developments in the actual fair value segment develops and commercializes new products to 6 may differ from the estimated value due to factors, such as fulfill customer needs, ensuring the leading portfolio of 7 electricity prices, the forecast period or the discount rate. products and services for paper wet-end, focusing on More information on PVO Group's fair value determination packaging and board, as well as tissue. 8 is presented in Note 14. 9 DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS OIL & MINING 10 Determining pension liabilities under defined benefit pension plans includes a number of actuarial assumptions, Oil & Mining provides a unique combination of innovative 11 and significant changes in these assumptions may affect chemicals and application knowledge that improves 12 the amounts of pension liabilities and expenses. Actuarial process efficiency and yield in oil, gas, and metals recovery. calculations include assumptions by the management, The segment uses its in-depth understanding of extraction 13 such as the discount rate and assumptions of salary processes to tailor solutions for water management and 14 increases and the termination of employment contracts. re-use. Pension liability is calculated by independent actuaries. 15 See Note 22 for details on the calculation of the defined 16 benefit pension assumptions. MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL 17 ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS Municipal & Industrial is a leading water chemicals 18 Recognizing environmental provisions requires the mansupplier for raw and wastewater applications in EMEA and agement’s estimates, since the precise euro amount of North America, and aims to capture selected growth 19 obligations related to the provisions is not known when opportunities in emerging markets. The segment enables preparing the Financial Statements. Provisions are its municipal and industrial customers to improve their 20 disclosed in Note 23. water treatment efficiency by supplying them with com21 petitive, high-performing products and value adding DEFERRED TAXES application support. 22 For the recognition of deferred tax assets on tax losses and 23 other items, the management assesses the amount of a probable future taxable profit against which unused tax SEGMENT REPORTING 24 losses and unused tax credits can be utilized. Actual 25 profits may differ from the forecasts and in such case, the Segment information is presented in a manner consistent change will affect the taxes in future periods. Deferred with the Group’s internal organizational and reporting 26 taxes are disclosed in Note 21. structure. Kemira management evaluates the segments 27 performance based on operative EBITDA and operating EBIT, among other factors. Assets and liabilities dedicated 28 to a particular segment’s operations are included in that segment’s total assets and liabilities. Segment assets 29 include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, 30 investments in associates, inventories, and current non-interest-bearing receivables. Segment liabilities 31 include current non-interest-bearing liabilities. Geographi32 cally, Kemira’s operations are divided into three business regions: Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), the 33 Americas and Asia Pacific (APAC). 34 32 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS Note Municipal & 2016 Pulp & Paper Oil & Mining Industrial Group Revenue 1) 1,457.3 309.5 596.5 2,363.3 1 2 EBITDA 2) 187.8 11.6 84.8 284.2 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -86.2 -23.7 -27.3 -137.2 3 Operating profit (EBIT) 2) 101.6 -12.1 57.5 147.0 4 Finance costs, net -19.1 Share of the results of associates 0.1 5 Profit before tax 128.0 Income taxes -30.1 6 Net profit for the period 97.9 7 1) Segments revenue consists only of sales from external customers and there are no intersegment sales. Revenue consists mainly of sale of products. 8 2) Includes items affecting comparability. 9 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY IN EBITDA AND EBIT 10 11 Municipal & 2016 Pulp & Paper Oil & Mining Industrial Group 12 Operative EBITDA 195.3 18.4 88.8 302.5 13 Restructuring and streamlining programs -5.8 Transaction and integration expenses in acquisition -5.0 14 Divestment of businesses and other disposals 0.5 Other items -8.0 15 Total items affecting comparability -7.5 -6.8 -4.0 -18.3 16 EBITDA 187.8 11.6 84.8 284.2 17 Operative EBIT 111.6 -3.8 62.3 170.1 18 Items affecting comparability in EBITDA -7.5 -6.8 -4.0 -18.3 Items affecting comparability in depreciation, 19 amortization and impairments -2.5 -1.5 -0.8 -4.8 Operating profit (EBIT) 101.6 -12.1 57.5 147.0 20 21 22 BALANCE SHEET ITEMS 23 Municipal & 2016 Pulp & Paper Oil & Mining Industrial Group 24 Segment assets 1,364.7 345.8 430.8 2,141.3 25 Reconciliation to total assets as reported in the Group balance sheet: 26 Available-for-sale financial assets 202.5 Deferred income tax assets 27.5 27 Other investments 4.4 28 Defined benefit pension receivables 32.1 Other assets 39.7 29 Cash and cash equivalents 173.4 30 Total assets as reported in the Group balance sheet 2,620.9 31 Segment liabilities 231.3 65.1 95.2 391.6 32 Reconciliation to total liabilities as reported in the Group balance sheet: 33 Interest-bearing non-current financial liabilities 649.5 Interest-bearing current financial liabilities 157.9 34 Other liabilities 239.0 Total liabilities as reported in the Group balance sheet 1,438.0 2016 33 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note OTHER ITEMS Municipal & 2016 Pulp & Paper Oil & Mining Industrial Group 1 Capital employed by segments at 31 Dec 1,133.4 280.7 335.6 1,749.7 Capital employed by segments, 12-month rolling average 1,111.8 274.5 330.7 1,718.2 2 Operative ROCE, % 10.0 -1.4 18.8 9.9 3 Capital expenditure 125.1 38.0 47.5 210.6 4 5 INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS 6 Municipal & 2015 Pulp & Paper Oil & Mining Industrial Group 7 Revenue 1) 1,417.3 350.1 605.7 2,373.1 8 EBITDA 2) 157.1 30.8 75.9 263.8 9 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -74.5 -27.9 -28.8 -131.2 10 Operating profit 2) 82.6 2.9 47.1 132.6 Finance costs, net -30.8 11 Share of the results of associates 0.3 12 Profit before tax 102.1 Income taxes -24.9 13 Net profit for the period 77.2 14 1) Segments revenue consists only of sales from external customers. There are no intersegment sales. Revenue consists mainly of sale of products. 2) Includes items affecting comparability. 15 16 17 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY IN EBITDA AND EBIT 18 Municipal & 19 2015 Pulp & Paper Oil & Mining Industrial Group Operative EBITDA 171.0 33.5 82.8 287.3 20 Restructuring and streamlining programs -5.7 21 Transaction and integration expenses in acquisition -13.0 Divestment of businesses and other disposals -1.8 22 Other items -3.0 23 Total items affecting comparability -13.9 -2.7 -6.9 -23.5 EBITDA 157.1 30.8 75.9 263.8 24 Operative EBIT 96.8 11.1 55.2 163.1 25 Items affecting comparability in EBITDA -13.9 -2.7 -6.9 -23.5 26 Items affecting comparability in depreciation, amortization and impairments -0.3 -5.5 -1.2 -7.0 27 Operating profit (EBIT) 82.6 2.9 47.1 132.6 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 34 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) BALANCE SHEET ITEMS Note Municipal & 2015 Pulp & Paper Oil & Mining Industrial Group Segment assets 1,304.0 333.3 415.9 2,053.2 1 Reconciliation to total assets as reported in the Group balance sheet: 2 Available-for-sale financial assets 271.6 3 Deferred income tax assets 29.5 Other investments 5.8 4 Defined benefit pension receivables 48.9 5 Other assets 34.7 Cash and cash equivalents 151.5 6 Total assets as reported in the Group balance sheet 2,595.2 7 Segment liabilities 214.4 56.6 94.8 365.8 8 Reconciliation to total liabilities as reported in the Group balance sheet: 9 Interest-bearing non-current financial liabilities 670.9 10 Interest-bearing current financial liabilities 122.7 Other liabilities 242.6 11 Total liabilities as reported in the Group balance sheet 1,402.0 12 13 OTHER ITEMS 14 15 Municipal & 2015 Pulp & Paper Oil & Mining Industrial Group 16 Capital employed by segments at 31 Dec 1,089.6 276.7 321.1 1,687.4 Capital employed by segments, 12-month rolling average 1,068.6 271.4 320.2 1,659.5 17 Operative ROCE, % 9.1 4.1 17.2 9.8 18 Capital expenditure 240.1 30.8 34.2 305.1 19 20 INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 21 Revenue by geographical area based on customer location 2016 2015 22 Finland, domicile of the parent company 334.7 334.8 Other Europe, Middle East and Africa 904.6 906.0 23 Americas 896.3 935.9 24 Asia Pacific 227.7 196.4 Total 2,363.3 2,373.1 25 26 Non-current assets by geographical area 2016 2015 27 Finland, domicile of the parent company 660.1 710.1 Other Europe, Middle East and Africa 459.4 441.1 28 Americas 504.4 477.3 29 Asia Pacific 138.1 118.1 Total 1,762.0 1,746.6 30 31 INFORMATION ABOUT MAJOR CUSTOMERS 32 33 The Group derives revenue from many significant customers. However, 10% or more of the Group's revenue is not derived from any single external customer in 2016 or 2015. 34 2016 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES Gains on sale of non-current assets 0.9 1.0 Wages and salaries 1 Rental income 1.2 1.5 Wages 280.7 274.4 2 Services 2.6 2.3 Emoluments of Kemira Oyj's CEO Sale of scrap and waste 0.1 0.1 and the Board of Directors 31 1.9 1.1 3 Income from royalties, know-how and Share-based payments 5 2.3 2.1 licenses 0.0 0.1 4 Total 284.9 277.6 Other income from operations 0.3 2.1 5 Total 5.1 7.1 Indirect employee benefit expenses 6 Expenses for defined benefit plans 22 3.6 3.4 7 Pension expenses for defined 4. OPERATING EXPENSES contribution plans 22.5 20.8 8 Other employee benefit costs 53.6 54.2 Total 79.7 78.4 9 2016 2015 Change in inventories of finished goods 10 (inventory increase + / decrease -) 3.6 11.0 Total employee benefit expenses 364.6 356.0 Own work capitalized 1) -2.7 -2.3 11 Total 0.9 8.7 12 2016 2015 Materials and services 2) 13 Materials and supplies NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 14 Purchases during the financial year 1,389.0 1,426.8 Average number of personnel by Change in inventories of materials geographical area 15 and supplies (inventory increase + / Europe, Middle East and Africa 2,609 2,536 decrease -) 6.3 -1.4 Americas 1,578 1,550 16 External services 36.7 33.8 Asia Pacific 615 473 Total 1,432.0 1,459.2 17 Total 4,802 4,559 18 Employee benefit expenses 364.6 356.0 Personnel in Finland, average 807 793 19 2) Personnel outside Finland, average 3,995 3,766 Other operating expenses Total 4,802 4,559 20 Rents 53.6 47.6 Loss on sales of property, plant and 21 equipment 0.0 0.1 Number of personnel at 31 Dec 4,818 4,685 3) Other expenses 233.1 244.8 22 Total 286.7 292.5 23 2016 2015 Total operating expenses 2,084.2 2,116.4 24 DELOITTE & TOUCHE OY'S FEES AND 1) Own work capitalized mainly comprises wages, salaries and other SERVICES 25 personnel expenses, and changes in inventories relating to selfconstructed property, plant and equipment for own use. Audit fees 1.5 1.5 26 2) The Group has revised presentation of the items and year 2015 has Tax services 0.2 0.3 been restated. Other services 0.4 0.5 27 3) In 2016, other operating expenses include research and development Total 2.1 2.3 expenses of EUR 32.1 million (31.9). Government grants received for 28 R&D were EUR 0.8 million (1.2). The extent of grants received reduces research and development expenses. 29 30 31 32 33 34 36 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 5. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 6. D  EPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION Note AND IMPAIRMENTS LONG-TERM SHARE INCENTIVE 2016 2015 PLAN 2015–2017 1 Amortization of intangible assets Other intangible assets 1) 26.6 25.7 2 Kemira's long-term share incentive plan comprises three Development costs 1.7 3.8 performance periods: calendar years 2015, 2016, and 2017. 3 Total 28.3 29.5 The Board of Directors of Kemira will decide on the Plan's 4 performance criteria and on the required performance Depreciation of property, plant and levels for each criterion at the beginning of each perforequipment 5 mance period. The Plan reward for the performance period Buildings and constructions 16.9 16.2 6 2015 and 2016 was based on the Group's revenue and on Machinery and equipment 81.7 78.1 the Group's operative EBITDA margin. For the earning Other tangible assets 5.5 5.9 7 period 2015, the shares of 294.445 pcs were delivered to 84 Total 104.1 100.2 participants under the rule. For the earning period 2016, 8 the Plan financial targets were not achieved, and thus Impairment of intangible assets and 9 there will be no reward payout. property, plant and equipment The rewards for the performance periods will be paid Other intangible assets 1.8 0.0 10 partly in Kemira's shares and partly in cash. The cash Goodwill 0.1 0.8 11 proportion is intended to cover taxes and tax-related costs Land 0.4 0.7 arising from the reward to the participant. As a rule, no Buildings and constructions 0.3 0.0 12 reward will be paid if a participant's employment or service Machinery and equipment 2.2 0.0 13 ends before the reward payment. Total 4.8 1.5 The shares paid as reward may not be transferred 14 during the restriction period, which will end two years after Total depreciation, amortization and impairments 137.2 131.2 15 the end of the performance period. Should a participant's employment or service end during the restriction period, as 1) Includes amortization of EUR 14.0 million (7.4) during financial year 16 a rule, he or she must gratuitously return the shares given 2016 related to AkzoNobel paper chemicals business, Soto Industries as reward. LLC and Polymer Services LLC acquisitions. More information on the 17 acquisitions is disclosed in Notes 12 and 26. Total amortization related to business acquisitions is EUR 19.2 million (12.6) during 18 LONG-TERM SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN 2015 financial year 2016. The key assumptions for the fair value of the rewards 19 relating to the performance period 2015 are presented in Goodwill impairment tests is disclosed in Note 11. 20 the following table. 21 Performance period (calendar year) 2015 22 Lock-up period of shares 2 years Number of shares at December 31, 2016 292,572 23 Number of participants at December 31, 2016 83 24 25 THE EFFECT OF SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS ON OPERATING PROFIT 26 2016 2015 27 Rewards provided in shares 0.9 0.9 Rewards provided in cash 1.4 1.2 28 Total 2.3 2.1 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 37 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 7. FINANCE INCOME AND 8. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES EXPENSES 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net book value at 1 Jan 1.2 0.9 1 Dividends received -0.1 0.0 Finance income 2 Dividend income 0.1 0.0 Share of the results of associates 0.1 0.3 Interest income Net book value at 31 Dec 1.2 1.2 3 Interest income from loans and receivables 1) 1.7 4.0 The Group does not have any significant individual associ4 Interest income from financial assets ate. The Group's associates and ownership of shares has 5 at fair value through profit or loss 0.4 0.7 been presented in Note 33. Other finance income 2) 7.3 0.4 Summary of the associates financial information is 6 Total 9.5 5.1 presented in the following table. The presented figures 7 equal the figures in the financial statements of the each Finance expense associate, not the portion of Kemira Group. 8 Interest expenses Interest expenses from other liabilities -19.9 -17.7 2016 2015 9 Interest expenses from financial Assets 19.3 21.4 10 assets at fair value through profit or loss -3.8 -7.7 Liabilities 17.4 19.2 11 Other finance expenses 3) -3.8 -8.5 Revenue 6.6 7.5 Total -27.5 -33.9 Profit (+) / loss (-) for the period 0.2 0.5 12 Related party transactions carried out with associates are 13 Exchange gains and losses disclosed in Note 31. Exchange gains and losses from 14 financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss -1.9 0.0 15 Exchange gains and losses from loans 16 and other receivables Exchange gains and losses from other -3.0 -1.7 9. INCOME TAXES liabilities 3.8 -0.3 17 Total -1.1 -2.0 2016 2015 18 Current taxes -19.6 -24.2 Total finance income and expenses -19.1 -30.8 Taxes for prior years -1.8 4.8 19 Change in deferred taxes -8.7 -5.5 20 Net finance expenses as a percentage of Total -30.1 -24.9 revenue 0.8 1.3 21 Net interest as a percentage of revenue 0.9 0.9 Subsidiaries have EUR 108.1 million (143.9) tax losses, of 22 Change in Consolidated Statement of which no deferred tax benefits have been recognized. 23 Comprehensive Income from hedge Subsidiaries' tax losses have been used during the fiscal accounting instruments year and deferred tax benefits have been recognized. 24 Cash flow hedge accounting: Amount recognized in the Consolidated Subsidiaries' tax losses are incurred in different currencies 25 Statement of Comprehensive Income 8.5 -2.5 and therefore exchange rate differences affect the amount Total 8.5 -2.5 of the tax losses. 26 Due to the Group's wide global business operations, the 27 Exchange differences Group has several tax audits on going at all times. Prior tax Realized 0.3 -5.1 audits have not resulted in material adjustments to income 28 Unrealized -1.4 3.1 tax assessments. In addition, the Group has a tax dispute Total -1.1 -2.0 pending at the Administrative Court in Finland due to the 29 appeal of the Tax Recipients' Legal Services Unit. In case of 1) In 2015 includes interest income from income taxes of EUR 3 million. 30 2) In 2016 includes EUR 5 million gain from sale of electricity production an unfavorable decision, there will be no tax effect for the assets (Pohjolan Voima Oy) and changes in fair values of electricity Group. 31 derivatives EUR 2.2 million. 3) In 2015 includes write-down of EUR -2.3 million a shareholder's loan 32 related to Kemira's ownership in TVO (Teollisuuden Voima Oyj), a Finnish power company and ineffective portion of electricity hedge 33 EUR -0.8 million. 34 38 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) RECONCILIATION BETWEEN TAX EXPENSE AND TAX CALCULATED AT DOMESTIC TAX RATE Note 2016 2015 Profit before tax 128.0 102.1 1 Tax at parent's tax rate 20% -25.6 -20.4 Foreign subsidiaries' different tax rate -3.0 2.0 2 Non-deductible expenses and tax-exempt profits -2.9 -1.2 3 Share of profit or loss of associates 0.0 0.1 Tax losses -5.5 -7.4 4 Tax for prior years -1.8 4.8 5 Effect of change in tax rates -0.2 0.0 Tax credit from WHT related to prior years 3.1 0.0 6 Changes in deferred taxes related to prior years 5.8 -2.8 Others 0.0 0.0 7 Total taxes -30.1 -24.9 8 9 THE TAX RELATING TO COMPONENTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 10 2016 2015 Tax charge (-) / Tax charge (-) / 11 Before tax credit (+) After tax Before tax credit (+) After tax 12 Available-for-sale financial assets -39.5 7.9 -31.6 -26.3 5.3 -21.0 Exchange differences on translating 13 foreign operations 23.4 -12.1 11.3 26.2 0.0 26.2 Cash flow hedges 10.6 -2.1 8.5 -3.1 0.6 -2.5 14 Remeasurements on defined benefit plans -17.3 6.6 -10.7 44.8 -8.9 35.9 15 Other comprehensive income -22.8 0.3 -22.5 41.6 -3.0 38.6 16 17 18 10. EARNINGS PER SHARE 19 2016 2015 20 Earnings per share, basic Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent 91.8 71.0 21 Weighted average number of shares 1) 152,314,390 152,059,309 22 Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.60 0.47 23 Earnings per share, diluted Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent 91.8 71.0 24 Weighted average number of shares 1) 152,314,390 152,059,309 25 Adjustments for: Treasury shares possibly subject to emission in share-based payments 211,454 335,317 26 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 152,525,844 152,394,626 27 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.60 0.47 28 1) Weighted average number of shares outstanding, excluding the number of treasury shares. 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 39 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 11. GOODWILL KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL Note 2016 2015 Net book value at 1 Jan 518.3 485.6 LONG-TERM GROWTH RATE 1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and The long-term growth rate used is purely for the impairbusiness acquisitions 1) 26 0.0 21.3 ment testing of goodwill. The assumptions of the long-term 2 Decreases and other changes -0.1 -0.8 growth rate were used based on the Group’s financial 3 Exchange differences 4.2 12.2 forecasts prepared and approved by the management Net book value at 31 Dec 522.4 518.3 covering a five-year horizon. Forecasts for cash flow growth 4 reflect the management's perception of developments in 1) In 2015, goodwill has increased by EUR 21.3 million, which is related sales and cost items during the forecast period. The growth 5 to the acquired AkzoNobel paper chemicals business. rate used to extrapolate cash flows subsequent to the 6 five-year forecast period was assumed to be zero. 7 GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING DISCOUNT RATE 8 The discount rates applied were based on the Group's 9 The Group performs its annual impairment testing of adjusted weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The goodwill on September 30. Impairment testing for goodwill risk-adjusted WACC rate was defined separately for each 10 is also carried out when changes in circumstances indicate cash-generating unit. The discount rates used in performthat the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The ing the impairment tests of the Group's reportable seg11 recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been ments are presented in the following table. 12 determined based on value in use calculations. The key assumptions are long-term growth rate and discount rate. % 2016 2015 13 In 2016, impairment testing did not indicate any impairPulp & Paper 6.5 6.1 14 ment (2015: no impairment). Oil & Mining 6.8 6.7 Goodwill is allocated to three individual cash-generatMunicipal & Industrial 6.5 5.4 15 ing unit that are the Group's reportable segements. The 16 reportable segment represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 17 management purposes. The Group’s three reportable The sensitivity analyses were made under the assumption 18 segments are Pulp & Paper, Oil & Mining and Municipal & that there would be a decline in the growth rate of cash Industrial. A summary of the net book value and goodwill to flows during and after the forecast period. A general 19 the Group’s reportable segments is presented in the increase in interest rates has also been taken into considfollowing table. eration as well as a decrease in profitability. A decrease of 20 10% in the estimated cash flow or an increase of 2 per21 Dec 31, 2016 centage points in the discount rate would not result in any Net book value of which goodwill impairment losses to be recorded on the reportable 22 Pulp & Paper 1,086 360 segment level. 23 Oil & Mining 282 83 Municipal & Industrial 302 79 24 Total 1,670 522 25 26 Dec 31, 2015 27 Net book value of which goodwill Pulp & Paper 1,025 357 28 Oil & Mining 255 83 29 Municipal & Industrial 300 78 Total 1,580 518 30 31 32 33 34 40 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 12. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Note Internally generated Other intangible 2016 development costs assets Prepayments Total 1 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 47.2 208.5 12.8 268.5 Additions 22.8 -8.5 14.3 2 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and business acquisitions -4.0 -4.0 3 Decreases and other changes -6.6 -0.1 -6.7 Exchange rate differences 1.5 1.5 4 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 47.2 222.2 4.2 273.6 5 Accumulated amortization at 1 Jan -45.5 -88.3 -133.8 6 Accumulated amortization relating to decreases and transfers 6.8 6.8 7 Amortization during the financial year -1.7 -26.9 -28.6 8 Impairments -1.8 -1.8 Exchange rate differences -0.3 -0.3 9 Accumulated amortization at 31 Dec -47.2 -110.5 -157.7 10 Net book value at 31 Dec 0.0 111.7 4.2 115.9 11 12 13 Internally generated Other intangible 14 2015 development costs assets Prepayments Total Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 47.2 185.9 13.5 246.6 15 Additions 8.8 2.6 11.4 16 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and business acquisitions 1) 75.6 -0.1 75.5 Decreases and other changes -62.8 -3.7 -66.5 17 Exchange rate differences 1.0 0.5 1.5 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 47.2 208.5 12.8 268.5 18 19 Accumulated amortization at 1 Jan -41.7 -128.6 -170.3 Accumulated amortization relating to 20 decreases and transfers 66.6 66.6 21 Amortization during the financial year -3.8 -25.7 -29.5 Exchange rate differences -0.6 -0.6 22 Accumulated amortization at 31 Dec -45.5 -88.3 -133.8 23 Net book value at 31 Dec 1.7 120.2 12.8 134.7 24 1) Other intangible assets include AkzoNobel's paper chemicals business, Soto Industries LLC, and Polymer Services LLC, of which acquisition value 25 EUR 75,6 million was allocated to intangible assets as customer relationships, non-compete agreements, patents and technologies. 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 41 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Other Prepayments Machinery property, and non-current Buildings and and plant and assets under 1 2016 Land constructions equipment equipment construction 1) Total Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 54.5 446.3 1,319.2 54.7 127.8 2,002.5 2 Additions 39.0 130.4 6.5 22.4 198.3 3 Decreases and other changes -0.6 -2.2 -0.5 -0.7 -0.7 -4.7 Reclassifications 0.1 4.2 0.4 -4.7 0.0 4 Exchange rate differences -0.8 -2.3 -0.6 0.8 9.6 6.7 5 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 53.1 480.9 1,452.7 61.7 154.4 2,202.8 6 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan . -9.5 -247.2 -905.5 -25.0 -1,187.2 Accumulated depreciation related to 7 decreases and transfers 1.6 1.2 0.6 3.4 8 Depreciation during the financial year -17.1 -83.4 -5.6 -106.1 Impairments -0.4 -0.3 -2.2 -2.9 9 Exchange rate differences 1.8 4.5 -0.7 5.6 10 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec -9.9 -261.2 -985.4 -30.7 -1,287.2 11 Net book value at 31 Dec 43.2 219.7 467.3 31.0 154.4 915.6 12 Other Prepayments 13 Machinery property, and non-current Buildings and and plant and assets under 14 2015 Land constructions equipment equipment construction 1) Total Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 51.0 424.9 1,221.2 53.1 65.6 1,815.8 15 Additions 10.1 67.1 2.0 86.8 166.0 16 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and business acquisitions 2) 2.6 5.1 13.1 0.1 1.7 22.6 17 Decreases and other changes -0.4 -9.3 -39.4 -3.2 -0.1 -52.4 18 Reclassifications 3.6 16.5 0.7 -20.8 0.0 Exchange rate differences 1.3 11.9 40.7 2.0 -5.4 50.5 19 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 54.5 446.3 1,319.2 54.7 127.8 2,002.5 20 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan -8.8 -234.8 -844.1 -21.9 -1,109.6 21 Accumulated depreciation related to decreases and transfers 9.3 38.6 3.1 51.0 22 Depreciation during the financial year -16.2 -78.3 -5.7 -100.2 23 Impairments -0.7 -0.7 Exchange rate differences -5.5 -21.7 -0.5 -27.7 24 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec -9.5 -247.2 -905.5 -25.0 -1,187.2 25 Net book value at 31 Dec 45.0 199.1 413.7 29.7 127.8 815.3 26 1) Prepayment and non-current assets under construction mainly comprises of plant investments. 27 2) Property, plant and equipment includes acquisitions of AkzoNobel's paper chemicals business, Soto Industries LLC, and Polymer Services LLC with book value of EUR 22.6 million. 28 29 FINANCE LEASE ASSETS 30 Property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease includes the following amounts: 31 2016 2015 32 Acquisition cost – capitalized finance leases 3.5 6.0 Accumulated depreciation -2.0 -2.5 33 Net book value at 31 Dec 1.5 3.5 34 The Group leases buildings and constructions, machinery and equipment and other property, plant and equipment under finance lease agreements. 42 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 14. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Note 2016 2015 Net book value at 1 Jan 271.6 293.7 Additions 0.0 4.2 1 1) Decreases -29.6 -0.1 2 Change in fair value -39.5 -26.2 Net book value at 31 Dec 202.5 271.6 3 1) In 2016, Kemira sold 43.33% of its holding of class B shares in Pohjolan Voima Oy to Etelä-Suomen Voima Oy. The transaction price was EUR 35 4 million and recognized capital gain was EUR 5 million. 5 6 THE SHARES OF POHJOLAN VOIMA GROUP 7 The available-for-sale financial assets total EUR 202.5 million (271.6) include the shares in Pohjolan Voima Group of EUR 8 201.0 million (270.0); their valuation principles are described in more detail in Kemira Group's accounting policies. Kemira 9 Oyj owns 5% of Pohjolan Voima Oy, and 1% of its subsidiary Teollisuuden Voima Oyj. 10 2016 2015 11 Class of shares Holding % Class of assets Fair value Fair value Pohjolan Voima Oy A 5 hydro power 65.2 75.6 12 1) Pohjolan Voima Oy B 2 nuclear power 31.9 72.8 13 Pohjolan Voima Oy B2 7 nuclear power 18.0 18.0 Teollisuuden Voima Oyj A 2 nuclear power 61.5 79.4 14 Muut Pohjolan Voima Oy ja Teollisuuden Voima Oyj C, C2, G5, G6, M several several 24.4 24.2 15 Total 201.0 270.0 16 The fair value of the shares is based on the discounted cash flow resulting from the difference between the market price and the production cost of electricity. The discount rate used to calculate the net present value at the year-end is an annually 17 defined weighted average cost of capital. The short-term discount rate in 2016 was 3.7% (4.2%) and the long-term discount 18 rate was 4.4% (4.8%). A 10% decrease in the electricity market future price would decrease the fair value of shares by approximately EUR 31 million. An increase of 1 percentage point in the discount rate would decrease the fair value by 19 approximately EUR 27 million. 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 43 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 15. CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES Total 1 Financial Financial carrying assets at assets at fair amounts 2 Financial fair value value through by instruments through profit and loss Loans Availablebalance Total 3 under hedge profit and (fair value and other for-sale­ Other sheet fair 2016 Note accounting loss hedging) receivables investments liabilities item value 4 Non-current financial assets 5 Investments Available-for-sale financial 6 assets 1) 14 202.5 202.5 202.5 Other assets 4.4 4.4 4.4 7 Current financial assets 8 Receivables 2) 17 Interest-bearing 9 receivables 0.2 0.2 0.2 Non-interest-bearing 10 receivables Trade receivables 291.1 291.1 291.1 11 Other receivables 3) 4) 3.8 2.8 3.4 10.0 10.0 12 Total 3.8 2.8 3.4 295.7 202.5 508.2 508.2 13 Non-current financial 14 liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 19 15 Loans from financial institutions 294.7 294.7 307.7 16 Bonds 5) 352.3 352.3 363.3 17 Other liabilities 2.4 2.4 2.5 Other liabilities 21.4 21.4 21.4 18 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 19 19 Loans from financial 20 institutions 63.0 63.0 65.7 Other liabilities 95.0 95.0 99.2 21 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities 24 22 Trade payables 159.6 159.6 159.6 23 Other liabilities 3) 3.0 4.1 33.6 40.7 40.7 Total 3.0 4.1 1,022.0 1,029.1 1,060.1 24 1) The available-for-sale financial assets mainly include shares of the Pohjolan Voima Group. 25 2) The carrying amount represents the maximum credit risk. 3) Other receivables and liabilities are financial assets at fair value through profit and loss or financial instruments under hedge accounting. 26 4) Other receivables include electricity derivative transactions related to collateral of EUR 0.0 million (0.3) paid to counterparties. 5) Includes hedge accounting adjustment of EUR 2.3 million (2.4). 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 44 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Total Note Financial Financial carrying assets at assets at fair amounts Financial fair value value through by instruments through profit and loss Loans Availablebalance under hedge profit and (fair value and other for-sale­ Other sheet Total fair 2015 Note accounting loss hedging) receivables investments liabilities item value 1 Non-current financial assets 2 Investments Available-for-sale financial 3 assets 1) 14 271.6 271.6 271.6 4 Other assets 5.8 5.8 5.8 Current financial assets 5 Receivables 2) 17 Interest-bearing 6 receivables 0.2 0.2 0.2 7 Non-interest-bearing receivables 8 Trade receivables 295.4 295.4 295.4 Other receivables 3) 4) 5.2 3.3 0.3 8.8 8.8 9 Total 5.2 3.3 301.7 271.6 581.8 581.8 10 Non-current financial 11 liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 19 12 Loans from financial 13 institutions 315.2 315.2 333.1 5) Bonds 352.4 352.4 359.2 14 Other liabilities 3.3 3.3 3.4 Other liabilities 21.4 21.4 21.4 15 Current financial liabilities 16 Interest-bearing liabilities 19 Loans from financial 17 institutions 36.7 36.7 38.1 Other liabilities 86.0 86.0 89.2 18 Non-interest-bearing current 19 liabilities 24 Trade payables 162.4 162.4 162.4 20 Other liabilities 3) 12.2 2.1 32.4 46.7 47.9 21 Total 12.2 2.1 1,009.8 1,024.1 1,054.7 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 45 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS 2016 Total 2015 Total FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 net Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 net 1 Available-for-sale financial assets 202.5 202.5 271.6 271.6 Other investments 4.4 4.4 5.8 5.8 2 Currency investments 2.8 2.8 5.2 5.2 3 Interest rate instruments, hedge accounting 3.4 3.4 3.3 3.3 4 Other instruments 3.8 3.8 5 Other receivables 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Trade receivables 291.1 291.1 295.4 295.4 6 Total 305.7 202.5 508.2 309.9 271.6 581.5 7 Level 1: Fair value is determined based on quoted market prices. 8 9 Level 2: Fair value is determined by using valuation techniques. The fair value refers to the value that is observable from the market value of elements of the financial instrument or the market value of corresponding financial instrument; or the value 10 that is observable by using commonly accepted valuation models and techniques if the market value can be reliably measured with them. 11 12 Level 3: Fair value is determined by using valuation techniques, which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value, and inputs are not based on observable market data. Level 3 includes mainly the shares of Pohjolan 13 Voima Group. 14 There is no transfers between levels 1–3 during the financial year. 15 16 Level 3 Level 3 Total net Total net 17 LEVEL 3 SPECIFICATION 2016 2015 Instrument 18 Net book value at 1 Jan 271.6 293.7 Effect on the Statement of Comprehensive Income -39.5 -26.3 19 Increases 0.0 4.2 20 Decreases -29.6 0.0 Net book value at 31 Dec 202.5 271.6 21 22 23 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 24 2016 Total 2015 Total 25 FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 net Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 net Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 673.5 673.5 695.1 695.1 26 Repayments from non-current interestbearing liabilities 65.7 65.7 38.1 38.1 27 Non-current other liabilities 21.4 21.4 21.4 21.4 28 Finance lease liabilities 0.5 0.5 1.2 1.2 Loans from financial institutions 98.7 98.7 88.6 88.6 29 Current other liabilities 33.6 33.6 33.6 33.6 30 Currency instruments 4.1 4.1 2.1 2.1 Interest rate instruments, hedge 31 accounting 2.2 2.2 1.7 1.7 Other instruments, hedge accounting 0.8 0.8 10.5 10.5 32 Trade payables 159.6 159.6 162.4 162.4 33 Total 1,060.1 1,060.1 1,054.7 1,054.7 34 46 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 16. INVENTORIES 17. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND Note OTHER RECEIVABLES 2016 2015 Materials and supplies 69.0 66.8 Note 2016 2015 Finished goods 134.9 131.3 1 Trade and other receivables Prepayments 13.0 8.9 Trade receivables 28 291.1 295.4 2 Total 216.9 207.0 Prepayments 4.3 4.5 3 Prepaid expenses and accrued In 2016, EUR 1.7 million (2.5) of the inventory value was income 40.6 45.1 4 recognized as an expense in order to decrease the book Other receivables 50.1 44.8 values of inventories to correspond with their net realizable Total 386.1 389.8 5 value. 6 Interest-bearing receivables Loan receivables 0.2 0.2 7 8 In 2016, items that are due in a time period longer than one 9 year include trade receivables of EUR 0.0 million (0.5), prepaid expenses and accrued income of EUR 5.5 million 10 (0.8) and non-interest-bearing receivables of EUR 13.3 11 million (6.5), prepayments 0.9 million (0.0), loans receivable 0.1 million (0.0). 12 13 Note 2016 2015 Net working capital 14 Inventories 16 216.9 207.0 15 Trade receivables and other receivables 17 386.1 389.8 16 Excluding financing items in other receivables -16.8 -13.1 17 Trade payables and other liabilities 24 405.2 388.7 Excluding financing items in other 18 liabilities -13.6 -22.8 19 Total 194.6 217.8 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 47 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 18. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY OTHER RESERVES Other reserves originate from local requirements of SHARE CAPITAL subsidiaries. On December 31, 2016, other reserves were 1 EUR 5.0 million (4.0). Number of 2 shares outstanding Share 3 (1,000) capital UNRESTRICTED EQUITY RESERVE 4 January 1, 2015 152,051 221.8 Treasury shares issued to the The unrestricted equity reserve includes other equity type 5 Board of Directors 11 investments and the subscription price of shares to the December 31, 2015 152,062 221.8 extent that they will not, based on the specific decision, be 6 recognized in share capital. 7 January 1, 2016 152,062 221.8 Treasury shares issued to key 8 personnel based on long-term EXCHANGE DIFFERENCES share incentive plan 2015 294 9 Treasury shares issued to the Board of Directors 13 The foreign currency exchange differences arise from the 10 translation of foreign subsidiaries' financial statements. Treasury shares given back -2 December 31, 2016 152,367 221.8 Also, foreign subsidiaries loans have been granted in 11 replacement of their equity, and the exchange differences 12 have been included in foreign currency exchange differKemira Oyj has one class of shares. Each share entitles its ences. 13 holder to one vote at the Annual General Meeting. On 14 December 31, 2016, the share capital was EUR 221.8 million and the total number of shares issued was TREASURY SHARES 15 155,342,557 including 2,975,327 treasury shares. Under 16 the Articles of Association of Kemira Oyj, the company does Kemira had 2,975,327 (3,280,602) of its treasury shares in not have a minimum or maximum share capital or a par possession on December 31, 2016. The average share price 17 value for a share. All issued shares have been fully paid. of treasury shares was EUR 6,73 and they represented 18 1.9% (2.1%) of the share capital, and the aggregate number of votes conferred by all shares. The aggregate par value of 19 SHARE PREMIUM the treasury shares is EUR 4.2 million. 20 The share premium is a reserve accumulated through 21 subscriptions entitled by the management stock option NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS program of 2001. This reserve is based on the old Finnish 22 Companies Act (734 / 1978), which will not change 2016 2015 23 anymore. Net book value at 1 Jan 12.9 12.6 Dividends -5.8 -5.9 24 Decreases 0.0 0.0 25 FAIR VALUE RESERVES Share of the profit for the period 6.1 6.2 Exchange rate differences -0.3 0.0 26 The fair value reserve is a reserve accumulated based on Net book value at 31 Dec 12.9 12.9 27 available-for-sale financial assets (shares) measured at fair value and hedge accounting. The Group's subsidiaries in which is a non-controlling 28 interest has been disclosed in Note 33. 29 30 31 32 33 34 48 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 19. INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 20. FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 Interest-bearing current liabilities Maturity of minimum lease payments Loans from financial institutions 63.0 36.7 No later than 1 year 0.4 0.6 1 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.6 1–5 years 0.1 0.7 2 Other current liabilities 94.5 85.4 Later than 5 years 0.0 0.0 Total 157.9 122.7 Total minimum lease payments 0.5 1.3 3 4 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities Present value of finance lease liabilities Loans from financial institutions 294.7 315.2 Total minimum lease payments 0.5 1.3 5 Bonds 352.3 352.4 Future finance charges on finance leases 0.0 -0.1 6 Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.6 Total 0.5 1.2 Other non-current liabilities 2.4 2.7 7 Total 649.5 670.9 Maturity of the present value of finance lease liabilities 8 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities No later than 1 year 0.4 0.6 9 maturing in 1–5 years 0.1 0.6 2018 (2017) 79.4 67.6 Later than 5 years 0.0 0.0 10 2019 (2018) 210.4 83.0 Total present value of finance lease liabilities 0.5 1.2 11 2020 (2019) 209.7 210.1 2021 (2020) 160.2 12 2022 (2021) or later 150.0 150.0 13 Total 649.5 670.9 14 Interest-bearing liabilities maturing in five years or over a longer period of time 15 Bond 150.0 150.0 16 Loans from financial institutions Total 150.0 150.0 17 18 The foreign currency breakdown of non-current loans is disclosed in Note 28 'Management of financial risks'. The 19 Group's liabilities include neither debentures nor convert20 ible bonds. 21 Interest-bearing net liabilities 2016 2015 22 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 649.5 670.9 Interest-bearing current liabilities 157.9 122.7 23 Interest-bearing liabilities 807.4 793.6 24 Cash and cash equivalents 173.4 151.5 Total 634.0 642.1 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 49 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS Recognized Exchange Recognized in other Acquired and differences in the income comprehenRecognized disposed and reclas1 Jan 1, 2016 statement sive income in equity subsidiaries sifications Dec 31, 2016 2 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation difference and 3 untaxed reserves 59.2 -2.4 56.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 24.6 -7.9 16.7 4 Defined benefit pensions 11.3 0.1 -3.5 -0.1 7.8 5 Fair value adjustments of net assets acquired 1) 9.8 -2.2 -0.3 7.3 6 Other 12.3 -6.7 11.9 0.2 1.0 18.7 Total 117.2 -8.8 0.5 0.2 0.0 -1.8 107.3 7 Deferred tax assets deducted -61.3 -44.1 8 Deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet 55.9 63.2 9 10 Deferred tax assets Provisions 17.7 -2.6 1.0 16.1 11 Tax losses 32.3 -5.6 -3.9 22.8 Defined benefit pensions 4.7 0.2 2.8 0.4 8.1 12 Other 36.1 -9.5 -2.3 0.3 24.6 13 Total 90.8 -17.5 0.5 0.0 0.0 -2.2 71.6 Deferred tax liabilities deducted -61.3 -44.1 14 Deferred tax assets in the balance sheet 29.5 27.5 15 16 Recognized Exchange 17 Recognized in other Acquired and differences in the income comprehenRecognized disposed and reclas18 Jan 1, 2015 statement sive income in equity subsidiaries sifications Dec 31, 2015 Deferred tax liabilities 19 Depreciation difference and untaxed reserves 55.2 0.7 3.3 59.2 20 Available-for-sale financial assets 29.8 -5.2 24.6 21 Defined benefit pensions 2.6 -0.2 8.5 0.4 11.3 Fair value adjustments of net 22 assets acquired 1) 7.6 -1.7 3.8 0.1 9.8 23 Other 2.7 9.2 0.3 0.1 12.3 Total 97.9 8.0 3.6 0.0 3.8 3.9 117.2 24 Deferred tax assets deducted -51.5 -61.3 Deferred tax liabilities in the 25 balance sheet 46.4 55.9 26 Deferred tax assets 27 Provisions 4.9 5.9 6.9 17.7 Tax losses 56.7 -17.4 -7.0 32.3 28 Defined benefit pensions 4.2 0.8 -0.2 -0.1 4.7 29 Other 19.4 13.2 0.8 0.6 2.1 36.1 Total 85.2 2.5 0.6 0.0 0.6 1.9 90.8 30 Deferred tax liabilities deducted -51.5 -61.3 31 Deferred tax assets in the balance sheet 33.7 29.5 32 1) The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are recognized at their fair values. The resulting deferred taxes 33 affect goodwill. 34 50 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 22. D  EFINED BENEFIT PENSION ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF DEFINED BENEFIT Note PLANS AND EMPLOYEE PLANS RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET BENEFITS 2016 2015 Defined benefit obligations 359.0 337.5 1 The Group has several defined benefit pension plans and Fair value of plan assets -311.3 -309.1 2 other employee benefits obligations. The main defined Net recognized assets (-) / liabilities (+) benefit pension plans are in Finland, Sweden, Germany, UK, in the balance sheet 47.7 28.4 3 Norway and Canada. 4 Liabilities of defined benefit plans 79.8 77.3 Receivables for defined benefit plans -32.1 -48.9 5 FINLAND Net recognized receivables (-) / liabilities (+) of defined benefit plans in the 6 balance sheet 47.7 28.4 The Group's most significant defined benefit plan is in 7 Finland through the Pension Fund Neliapila that takes care of the part of some employees' supplementary pension 8 benefits. The Pension Fund Neliapila covers employees AMOUNT OF DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 9 whose employment has begun prior to 1.1.1991 in Kemira, RECOGNIZED IN THE COMPREHENSIVE INCOME meaning that the fund is closed for new employees. The 10 plan is a final average pay pension plan concerning 2016 2015 11 supplementary pension benefits. Pension Fund Neliapila's Service cost 3.6 3.4 obligations are a total of EUR 258.0 million (241.2) and the Net interest cost 1) 1.0 1.7 12 plan assets are EUR 288.5 million (287.5). Components of defined benefit expenses 13 The Pension Fund Neliapila's supplementary benefit is (+) / income (-) recorded in the income statement 4.6 5.1 old-age pensions, disability pensions, survivors' pensions 14 and funeral grants. The aggregated pension benefit is 66% 1) Net interest costs are presented in net finance costs, in the Income 15 of the pension salary. To qualify a full pension the employee Statement. must have a pensionable service of 25 years. The supple16 mentary pension benefits is the difference between aggregated and compulsory pension benefits. In the DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS RECOGNISED IN 17 beginning of 2017, the pension legislation was amended that OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 18 the retirement age will rise gradually from 63 years upwards. Under the new rules the Pension Fund Neliapila will replace 2016 2015 19 a portion of this increase in the retirement age. This will have Items resulting from remeasurements on 20 no material impact on the pension fund's liabilities. defined benefit pensions 2) The 2017 pension reform legislation and associated Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) on 21 defined benefit obligation arising from mortality rate assumption affects the calculation of changes in demographic assumptions 3) -2.8 -8.8 22 supplementary benefits for persons under Pension Fund Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) on Neliapila. In the IFRS financial statements for 2015, the defined benefit obligation arising from 23 new assumed mortality is recognized in other comprehenchanges in financial assumptions 4) 36.1 -29.0 Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) on 24 sive income. The pension reform legislation change of EUR defined benefit obligation arising from 0.5 million is recognized in profit or loss as past service experience assumptions -3.9 3.1 25 cost in the IFRS financial statements for 2016. Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) on plan assets -12.1 -10.1 26 Other comprehensive income for defined 27 SWEDEN benefit plans expenses (+) / income (-) 17.3 -44.8 28 2) The remeasurements of defined benefit plans are included in the A significant defined benefit pension plan is the ITP 2 plan Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of other comprehensive 29 for white-collar employees. To qualify for a full pension, the income. The item has been disclosed net of tax and the related income tax is disclosed in Note 9. employee must have a projected period of pensionable 30 3) In 2016, the result represents an actuarial gain and is mainly due to service, from the date of entry until retirement age, of at the changed mortality table in the ITP 2 plan in Sweden. In 2015, the 31 least 30 years. The pension arrangements comprise normal actuarial gains are affected by EUR 8.8 million of revised mortality retirement pension, complementary retirement pensions rates related to Pension Fund Neliapila. The updated mortality rate is 32 treated as demographic assumption in the IAS 19 calculation. and survivors' pension. In addition, Kemira must have a 4) In 2016 and 2015, the actuarial gains / losses are mainly due to the 33 credit insurance from PRI Pensionsgaranti Mutual Insurchanges in the discount rates. ance Company for the ITP 2 plan pension liability. The 34 defined benefit obligations in Sweden is a total of EUR 43.8 million (46.9). 2016 51 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note THE MOVEMENT IN THE DEFINED BENEFIT million (104.8); properties EUR 15.5 million (15.5) and OBLIGATIONS OVER THE PERIOD Kemira Oyj´s shares EUR 1.4 million (1.3). In Pension Fund Neliapila, the investment positions are managed within an 2016 2015 asset-liability matching (ALM) framework that has been 1 Defined benefit obligation at 1 Jan 337.5 375.2 developed to combine long-term investments in line with Current service cost 2.8 3.0 the obligations under the pension scheme. In Pension Fund 2 Interest cost 7.3 6.7 Neliapila, a significant investment risk can be considered 3 Actuarial losses (+) / gains (-) on as market risk. Financial market cyclical fluctuations due obligation 29.4 -34.7 to market risk are managed by ensuring that the invest4 Exchange differences on foreign plans -1.5 0.3 ment position is sufficiently diversified. 5 Effect of business combinations and The income (+) / expense (-) of actual return on plan divestments 5) 0.0 4.8 assets of the Group's defined benefit plan was EUR 18.5 6 Benefits paid -19.7 -19.8 million (14.7). Curtailments and settlements -0.3 -0.1 7 Past service cost 0.5 0.3 Other movements 3.0 1.8 8 SIGNIFICANT ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS, % Defined benefit obligation at 31 Dec 359.0 337.5 9 2016 2015 10 Discount rate 1.3–3.6 2.0–4.0 THE MOVEMENT IN THE FAIR VALUE OF Inflation rate 1.1–2.5 1.5–2.5 11 PLAN ASSETS OVER THE PERIOD IN DEFINED Future salary increases 1.7–3.0 1.5–3.0 12 BENEFIT PLANS Future pension increases 1.1–3.0 1.7–3.0 13 2016 2015 The significant assumptions used in calculating the 14 Fair value at 1 Jan 309.1 309.6 obligations of the Finnish Pension Fund Neliapila were as Interest income 6.3 5.0 follows: discount rate 1.3% (2.0%), inflation rate 1.7% 15 Contributions 0.9 2.2 (1.5%), future salary increases 1.7% (1.5%) and future 16 Actuarial losses (-) / gains (+) on plan pension increases 2.0% (1.7%). assets 12.1 10.1 17 Exchange differences on foreign plans 0.1 -0.7 18 Effect of business combinations and SENSITIVITY ANALYSES divestments 5) 0.0 0.5 19 Benefits paid -16.8 -17.1 The sensitivity analysis is based on maintaining other Other movements -0.4 -0.5 assumptions stagnant even through one assumption 20 Fair value of plan assets at 31 Dec 311.3 309.1 changes. In practice, this is unlikely to occur and changes 21 5) In 2015 Kemira acquired AkzoNobel paper chemicals business. As a in some of the assumptions may correlate. When calculatresult of the acquisition, the transferred defined benefits plans to ing the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to 22 Kemira are mainly located in Germany, France, Italy, Indonesia, significant actuarial assumptions the same method has Thailand, Korea and Australia. 23 been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognized within the balance sheet. 24 If the discount rate would be 0.5 percentage points 25 ANALYSIS OF PLAN ASSETS BY ASSET lower, the defined benefit obligation would increase by EUR CATEGORY IN DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 23.6 million (6.6%) in case all other assumptions were held 26 constant. 27 2016 2015 Interest rate investments and other 28 assets 189.8 175.1 Shares and share funds 104.6 117.2 29 Properties occupied by the Group 15.5 15.5 30 Kemira Oyj's shares 1.4 1.3 Total assets 311.3 309.1 31 32 The Finnish Pension Fund Neliapila, which has the most of the defined benefit plan’s assets EUR 288.5 million (287.5), 33 consist of interest rate investments and other assets EUR 34 180.1 million (165.9); shares and share funds EUR 91.5 52 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) PENSION FUND NELIAPILA IN FINLAND ITP 2 IN SWEDEN Note Impact on Impact on Defined defined Defined defined benefit benefit benefit benefit 1 obligation obligation obligation obligation Discount rate 1.3% (December 31, 2016) 258.0 Discount rate 2.5% (December 31, 2016) 43.8 2 Discount rate +0.5% 242.7 -5.9% Discount rate +0.5% 40.7 -7.1% 3 Discount rate -0.5% 275.0 6.6% Discount rate -0.5% 47.3 8.0% 4 Future pension increases 2.0% Future salary increases 2.5% (December 31, 2016) 258.0 (December 31, 2016) 43.8 5 Future pension increases +0.5% 273.1 5.9% Future salary increases +0.5% 44.9 2.5% 6 Future pension increases -0.5% 244.2 -5.3% Future salary increases -0.5% 42.8 -2.2% 7 Change in mortality assumption in which an increase in life Change in mortality assumption in which an increase in life expectancy by one year will increase defined benefit expectancy by one year will increase defined benefit 8 obligation to EUR 11.3 million (4.4%). obligation to EUR 1.8 million (4.1%). 9 Expected contributions to the defined benefit plans for the 10 year ended December 31, 2017, are EUR 3.4 million. 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 53 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 23. PROVISIONS Personnel related Restructuring Environmental Other provisions provisions provisions provisions Total 1 Non-current provisions 2 At January 1, 2016 3.4 0.7 16.6 7.4 28.1 Exchange rate differences 0.1 0.2 0.5 0.8 3 Additional provisions and increases in existing provisions 3.5 1.4 0.3 5.2 4 Used during the financial year -0.2 -0.2 -1.0 -1.4 Unused amounts reversed -0.1 -3.8 -3.9 5 Reclassification -2.5 -0.5 0.7 -2.3 6 At December 31, 2016 0.7 3.5 17.2 5.1 26.5 7 Current provisions 8 At January 1, 2016 3.9 8.2 2.6 0.2 14.9 Exchange rate differences 0.0 9 Additional provisions and increases in existing provisions 7.0 1.1 1.5 9.6 10 Used during the financial year -4.0 -3.0 -1.5 -0.2 -8.7 Unused amounts reversed -1.0 -0.6 -0.4 -2.0 11 Reclassification 4.1 -3.7 0.4 At December 31, 2016 10.0 2.0 2.2 0.0 14.2 12 13 14 2016 2015 Analysis of total provisions 15 Non-current provisions 26.5 28.1 16 Current provisions 14.2 14.9 Total 40.7 43.0 17 18 In 2016, increases in provisions are mainly related to plant closures and environmental clean-up work in those plants. More information on environmental risks and liabilities can be found in Note 30. 19 20 21 24. TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 22 2016 2015 23 Trade payables and other liabilities Prepayments received 1.2 1.7 24 Trade payables 159.6 162.4 25 Accrued expenses 210.8 192.8 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 33.6 31.8 26 Total 405.2 388.7 27 Accrued expenses 28 Employee benefits 60.5 62.6 Items related to revenues and purchases 105.9 80.3 29 Interest 9.1 9.9 30 Exchange rate differences 0.2 0.3 Other 35.1 39.7 31 Total 210.8 192.8 32 33 34 54 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 25. C  ASH FLOW FROM DISPOSALS Note Note OF SUBSIDIARIES Purchase consideration, paid in cash, total 127.1 2016 2015 The assets and liabilities recognized as a 1 Disposal of subsidiaries result of the acquisition Proceeds from the disposals 1) 1.1 Intangible assets 12 62.0 2 Cash and cash equivalents in disposed Property, plant and equipment 13 21.9 companies Inventories 14.8 3 Total cash flow on disposals of Trade receivables 8.1 4 subsidiaries 1.1 Other receivables 3.5 Cash and cash equivalents 13.6 5 Assets and liabilities disposed of Deferred tax liabilities -3.9 subsidiaries 6 Provisions, trade payables and other Net working capital payables -14.2 7 Property, plant and equipment and Net assets acquired in fair value 105.8 intangible assets Goodwill 11 21.3 8 Other non-interest-bearing receivables Total 127.1 Non-controlling interests 9 Interest-bearing liabilities Acquisition-related costs of EUR 7.7 million have been 10 Non-interest-bearing liabilities included in other operating expenses in the Consolidated Total assets and liabilities of disposed 11 subsidiaries Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2015. The revenue included in the Consolidated Income 12 1) In 2015, proceeds from the disposals includes a final payment Statement since 4 May 2015 contributed by AkzoNobel related to the sold business in Brazil. Kemira sold Brazilian coagulant 13 business to Bauminas Química Ltda. in 2013. paper chemicals business was EUR 146 million. It also contributed EBITDA of EUR 13 million over the same period. 14 Had AkzoNobel paper chemicals business been 15 consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated 26. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS income statement would show pro forma revenue of EUR 16 219 million and pro forma EBITDA of EUR 19 million. The pro forma amounts are provided for comparative purposes 17 2015: ACQUISITION OF AKZONOBEL PAPER only and do not necessarily reflect the actual result that 18 CHEMICALS BUSINESS would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results of operations of the combined companies. 19 On May 4, 2015 Kemira acquired AkzoNobel paper chemi20 cals business. As a result of the acquisition, six AkzoNobel paper chemicals production sites and about 350 employ2015: ACQUISITIONS OF SOTO INDUSTRIES LLC 21 ees transferred to Kemira. The transferred production sites AND POLYMER SERVICES LLC 22 are located in South Korea, Thailand, Indonesia, Australia, Spain and Italy. The acquisition strengthens Kemira's On September 2, 2015, Kemira announced that it has 23 market position especially in the APAC region. It also acquired certain assets of Soto Industries, LLC, a privately 24 enables efficiency improvements in global paper chemicals owned company, headquartered in Charlotte, North manufacturing network. Carolina. Soto specializes in the application of scale 25 The consideration of EUR 127.1 million was paid in cash control products, defoamers, and settling agents for the and it does not involve the contingent consideration. pulp and paper industry. The acquisition is consolidated to 26 Kemira acquired a 100% interest in acquired business and Pulp & Paper segment. 27 the acquired business has been consolidated into Pulp & On December 8, 2015, Kemira acquired certain assets Paper segment. A provisional goodwill of EUR 21.3 million of Polymer Services, LLC, a privately owned company, 28 arises from the expected synergy in the business combinaheadquartered in Plainville, Kansas. Polymer Services, LLC 29 tion. is a highly specialized company focusing on the field Based on the acquisition calculation under IFRS 3 EUR application of polymer gel treatments for enhanced or 30 62.0 million was allocated to intangible assets as customer improved oil recovery. The acquisition is consolidated to Oil 31 relationships, non-compete agreements, patents and & Mining segment. technologies. Acquired intangible assets will be amortized 32 within an average of six years. 33 The following table summarizes the consideration paid for AkzoNobel paper chemicals business, and the amounts 34 of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognized on the acquisition date: 2016 55 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 27. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 2016 2015 NOMINAL VALUES < 1 year > 1 year Total < 1 year > 1 year Total 1 Currency instruments Forward contracts 260.9 260.9 402.3 402.3 2 3 Interest rate instruments Interest rate swaps 31.3 273.5 304.8 65.9 282.9 348.8 4 of which cash flow hedges 31.3 173.5 204.8 65.9 182.9 248.8 5 of which fair value hedges 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 6 Other instruments 7 Electricity forward contracts, bought (GWh) 709.5 1,262.0 1,971.5 562.2 893.5 1,455.7 of which cash flow hedges (GWh) 709.5 1,262.0 1,971.5 562.2 893.5 1,455.7 8 9 Nominal values of the financial instruments do not necessarily correspond to the actual cash flows between the counterparties, and individual items do not therefore give a fair view of the Group's risk position. 10 11 2016 2015 12 FAIR VALUES Assets gross Liabilities gross Total net Assets gross Liabilities gross Total net Currency instruments 13 Forward contracts 2.8 -4.1 -1.3 5.2 -2.1 3.1 14 Interest rate instruments 15 Interest rate swaps 3.4 -2.2 1.2 3.3 -1.7 1.6 16 of which cash flow hedges -2.2 -2.2 -1.7 -1.7 of which fair value hedges 3.4 3.4 3.3 3.3 17 18 Other instruments Electricity forward contracts, bought 3.8 -0.8 3.0 -10.5 -10.5 19 of which cash flow hedges 3.8 -0.8 3.0 -10.5 -10.5 20 21 2016 2015 Assets gross Liabilities gross Assets gross Liabilities gross 22 FAIR VALUES < 1 year > 1 year < 1 year > 1 year < 1 year > 1 year < 1 year > 1 year 23 Currency instruments Forward contract 2.8 -4.1 5.2 -2.1 24 25 Interest rate instruments Interest rate swaps 3.4 -2.2 3.3 -0.6 -1.1 26 of which cash flow hedges -2.2 -0.6 -1.1 27 of which fair value hedges 3.4 3.3 28 Other instruments Electricity forward contracts, bought 1.5 2.3 -0.1 -0.7 -5.2 -5.3 29 of which cash flow hedges 1.5 2.3 -0.1 -0.7 -5.2 -5.3 30 31 32 33 34 56 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 28. MANAGEMENT OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK Note FINANCIAL RISKS Foreign currency transaction risk arises from net currency flows denominated in currencies other than the domestic The Group Treasury manages financial risks in accordance currency within and outside the eurozone. The Group's 1 with the treasury policy in force. Approved by the Board of most significant transaction currency risks arise from the 2 Directors, the treasury policy defines treasury management Swedish krona, the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. At principles. The Board of Directors approves the annual the end of the year the denominated exchange rate risk of 3 Treasury plan and the maximum permissible financial risk the Swedish krona had an equivalent value of approxi4 levels. mately EUR 56 million (60), the average hedging rate being Financial risk management aims to protect the 68% (58%). The U.S. dollar denominated exchange rate risk 5 Company from unfavorable changes in financial markets, was approximately EUR 42 million (14), the average hedging 6 thus contributing to safeguarding the Company’s profit rate being 51% (65%). The Canadian dollar's denominated performance and shareholders’ equity. Kemira employs exchange rate risk had an equivalent value of approxi7 various financial instruments within the set limits. The mately EUR 23 million (39), the average hedging rate being Group uses only instruments of which market values and 64% (54%). Kemira is exposed to smaller transaction risks 8 risks can be monitored continuously and reliably. It uses in relation to the Chinese renminbi, the Norwegian krona 9 derivative instruments only for hedging purposes, not for and Brazilian real with the annual exposure in those speculation. Management of foreign exchange and interest currencies being approximately EUR 49 million. 49% of 10 rate risk is centralized in the Group Treasury. NOK's exposure was hedged on an average basis. 11 Kemira mainly uses forwards and currency options in hedging against foreign exchange risks. The table below 12 shows an estimate of the largest group-level foreign 13 currency cash flow risks. 14 Transaction exposure (EUR million) 2016 2015 15 SEK CAD USD Other SEK CAD USD Other 16 Operative cash flow forecast 1) -56.6 22.6 41.6 0.2 -60.4 38.9 14.1 34.6 Loans, net -2.8 408.0 51.1 2.7 1.5 430.7 17.3 17 Derivatives, operative cash flow hedging 36.1 -15.5 -21.3 -0.3 39.2 -23.2 -9.2 -8.5 18 Derivatives, hedging of loans, net 1.0 -48.2 -2.7 -1.5 -65.9 -73.9 Total -23.3 7.1 429.3 2.8 -21.2 15.7 369.7 -30.5 19 1) Based on 12-month foreign currency operative cash flow forecast. 20 21 At the turn of 2016/2017, the foreign currency operative and assets, currency by currency. In hedging the net 22 cash flow forecast for 2017 was EUR 193 million of which investment in its units abroad, Kemira monitors the equity 43% was hedged (41%). The hedge ratio is monitored daily. ratio. Long-term loans and currency derivatives can be 23 In hedging the total cash flow risk, a neutral level is used for hedging of net investments in foreign subsidiaries. 24 achieved when 50% of the forecasted net foreign currency These hedges do not apply hedge accounting. To the some cash flow is hedged. A minimum of 30% and a maximum of foreign subsidiaries loans in U.S. dollar have been granted 25 100% of the forecast flow must always be hedged. A 10% in replacement of their equity, and currency differences fall in foreign exchange rates against the euro, based on have been included in foreign currency translation differ26 the average exchange rates, and without hedging, would ences. 27 increase EBITDA by approximately EUR 1 million. Since Kemira's consolidated financial statements are 28 compiled in euros, Kemira is subject to currency translaINTEREST RATE RISK 29 tion risk to the extent that the income statement and balance sheet items of subsidiaries located outside In accordance with the treasury policy the Group’s interest 30 Finland are reported in some other currency than the euro. rate risk is measured with the duration which describes 31 Most significant translation risk currencies are the U.S. average repricing moment of the loan portfolio. The dollar, the Swedish krona, the Canadian Dollar, Chinese duration must be in the range of 6–60 months. The Group 32 Renminbi and the Brazilian real. may borrow in either fixed or floating rate and use both 33 Kemira's main equity items denominated in foreign interest rate swaps and interest rate options as well as currencies are in the Swedish krona and U.S. dollar. The forward rate agreements and interest rate futures in order 34 objective is to hedge the balance sheet risk by maintaining to meet the goal set under the related policy. a balance between foreign currency denominated liabilities 2016 57 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note The duration of the Group’s interest-bearing loan cost arises from variation in the interest rate levels of the portfolio was 26 months at the end of 2016 (31 months). euro and the U.S. dollar-denominated debt. On the balance Excluding the interest rate derivatives, the duration was 22 sheet date, the average interest rate of loan portfolio was months (27 months). At the end of 2016, 72% of the Group’s approximately 2.1%. 1 entire net debt portfolio, including derivatives and pension Financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest rate loans, was fixed (80%). The net financing cost of the Group are exposed to price risks arising from changes in interest 2 was 2.2% (3.9%). This figure is attained by dividing yearly rates. Financial assets and liabilities with floating interest 3 net interest and other financing expenses, excluding rate, of which changes alongside market interest rates, are exchange rate differences and dividends by the average exposed to cash flow risks due to interest rates. 4 interest bearing net debt figure for the corresponding The table below shows the time for interest rate fixing 5 period. The most significant impact on the net financing of the loan portfolio. 6 Time to interest rate fixing at Dec 31, 2016 <1 year 1–5 years > 5 year Total 7 Floating net liabilities 179.2 179.2 8 Fixed net liabilities 31.3 273.5 150.0 454.8 Total 210.5 273.5 150.0 634.0 9 10 Time to interest rate fixing at Dec 31, 2015 <1 year 1–5 years > 5 year Total 11 Floating net liabilities 128.3 128.3 12 Fixed net liabilities 65.9 297.9 150.0 513.8 Total 194.2 297.9 150.0 642.1 13 14 As a consequence of treasury policy, the Group’s average exchange as hedging instruments. Currency and regional 15 interest rate is generally higher than the short-term market price risks connected with hedges are hedged by making 16 interest rates when low rates prevail and, on the other agreements in Finland, mainly in HELEUR amounts and, in hand, lower than the market interest rates when high rates Sweden, mainly in MALSEK amounts. The outstanding 17 prevail. If interest rates would rise by one percentage point electricity derivatives are treated in accordance with cash 18 on January 1, 2017, the resulting interest expenses before flow hedge accounting, as discussed above. The forecast taxes incurred by the Group over the next 12 months would for physical deliveries of the underlying asset, or pur19 increase by approximately EUR 0.5 million (0.4). During chases, are not recorded until the delivery period. A + / 2017, Kemira will reprice 19% (20%) of the Group’s net debt 10% change in the market price of electricity hedging 20 portfolio, including derivatives. contracts would impact the valuation of these contracts 21 On the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding EUR +/-5.5 million (+/3.5). This impact would be mainly in interest rate derivatives related to cash flow hedging with a equity. 22 market value of EUR -2.2 million (-1.7) and fair value 23 hedging with market value of EUR 3.4 million (3.3). All interest rate swaps are used to hedge the Group’s loan CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK 24 portfolio, and are accounted for in accordance with the 25 principles of hedge accounting set out in IAS 39. The The Group’s treasury policy defines the credit rating Group’s accounting policies section describes the Group requirements for counterparties of investment activities 26 policy regarding hedge accounting. One percentage point and derivative agreements as well as the related invest27 increase in interest rates would have positive impact in ment policy. The Group seeks to minimize its counterparty market valuation of interest rate swaps of EUR 0.4 million risk by dealing solely with counterparties that are financial 28 (0.3) in equity. institutions with a good credit rating as well as by decentralizing agreements among them. 29 The Group Treasury approves the new banking relation30 PRICE RISK ships of subsidiaries. At present, there are 10 approved financial institution counterparties used by the Group 31 The price of electricity varies greatly according to the Treasury, all of which have a credit rating of at least 32 market situation. Kemira Group takes hedging measures investment grade based on Standard & Poor’s credit rating with respect to its electricity purchases in order to even out information. The maximum risk assignable to the Group’s 33 the raw material costs. In line with its hedging policy, the financial institution counterparties on the balance sheet 34 Group hedges its existing sales agreements in such a way date amounted to EUR 179.6 million (160.0). Kemira that the hedges cover the commitments made. The monitors its counterparty risk on a monthly basis by company primarily uses electricity forwards on the power defining the maximum risk associated with each counter58 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) party based on the market value of receivables. Kemira has LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISKS Note defined an approved limit for each financial institution. Credit risks associated with financing transactions did not In order to secure its liquidity, the Group uses account result in credit losses during the financial year. overdrafts, money market investments, and revolving credit The counterparty risk in treasury operations is due to facility. At the end of 2016 the Group’s cash and cash 1 the fact that a contractual party to a financing transaction equivalents stood at EUR 173.4 million (151.5), of which 2 is not necessarily able to fulfill its contractual obligations. short-term investment accounted for EUR 78.3 million Risks are mainly related to investment activities and the (45.4) and bank deposits EUR 95.1 million (106.1). 3 counterparty risks associated with derivative contracts. The Group diversifies its refinancing risk by raising 4 The Group Treasury may invest a maximum of EUR 150 financing from various sources. The Group has bank loans, million in liquid assets in the commercial papers of Finnish insurance company loans as well as a short-term domestic 5 companies and certificates of deposit. The maximum commercial paper program, with the objective of balancing 6 single investment is EUR 25 million for a period of up to the maturity schedule of the loan portfolio and maintaining three months. a sufficiently long maturity for long-term loans. 7 Kemira has a group wide credit policy. According to the In accordance with the Group Treasury policy, the policy each customer has a pre-defined risk category and average maturity of outstanding loans should always be at 8 credit limit which are constantly monitored. Based on the least 3 years. The Group must have committed credit 9 customer evaluation Kemira decides the applicable facilities to cover planned funding needs, the current payment terms to minimize credit risk. Pre-approved portion of long term debt, commercial paper borrowings, 10 payment terms have been defined on group level. If and other uncommitted short-term loans in the next 12 11 necessary, also securities and documentary credit, like months. Moreover, the maturity profile of the long-term letters of credit, are applied. The group does not have any debt portfolio and refinancing should be planned so that a 12 significant credit risk concentrations due to its extensive maximum of 30% of the total debt portfolio will mature 13 customer base across the world. The age distribution of during the next 12 months. The average maturity of debt at outstanding trade receivables at the end of the year 2016 is the end of 2016 was 3.5 years. 14 shown in the following chart. The Group has a EUR 600 million domestic commercial 15 paper program enabling it to issue commercial papers with AGEING OF TRADE RECEIVABLES 2016 2015 a maximum maturity of one year. At the end of 2016, there 16 Undue trade receivables 240.2 248.7 were no commercial papers outstanding on the market. Simultaneously, the Group had EUR 173.4 million of 17 Trade receivables 1–90 days overdue 48.1 44.4 Trade receivables more than 91 days outstanding liquid short-term investments. In addition, the 18 overdue 2.8 2.3 Group has revolving credit facility of EUR 400 million which Total 291.1 295.4 will mature on August 29, 2020. At the turn of the year 19 2016/2017, the revolving credit facility was undrawn. The 20 In 2016, impairment loss of trade receivables amounted to revolving credit facility represents a flexible form of both EUR 2.2 million (2.9). short-term and long-term financing with a predictable fee 21 In USA, Kemira has an accounts receivable purchase structure. 22 facility worth USD 38 million, enabling Group companies in the USA to sell certain account receivables to the counterMATURITY SPLIT OF INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT 23 party. The credit risk of the accounts receivables is trans24 ferred to the counterparty and 96.9% of the receivables 50.0 transferred are derecognized from the balance sheet. The 15 25 amount of outstanding receivables transferred, which also 0.0 0 reflects the carrying value of the receivables before the 26 -50.0 transfer was EUR 30.4 million (28.8) at 31 December 2016. 27 -79 The amounts recognized in the balance sheet at 31 -100.0 December 2016 due to the continuing involvement are EUR 28 -150.0 -150 1.1 million (0.6) in assets and EUR 0.5 million (0.3) in 29 liabilities. -200.0 -210 -210 -250.0 30 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 31 32 33 34 2016 59 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note CAPITAL STRUCTURE MANAGEMENT The Board of Directors will propose a per-share dividend of EUR 0.53 for 2016 (EUR 0.53), corresponding to The Group’s midto long-term objective is to maintain a a dividend payout ratio of 88% (114%). Kemira's dividend gearing ratio below 60%. To calculate the gearing ratio, policy aims at paying a stable and competitive dividend. 1 interest-bearing net liabilities (interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents) are divided by sharehold2016 2015 2 ers’ equity. The revolver credit facility agreement contains a Interest-bearing liabilities 807.4 793.6 3 covenant according to which the company gearing must be Cash and cash equivalents 173.4 151.5 below 100%. Interest-bearing net liabilities 634.0 642.1 4 Besides gearing, certain other bilateral loan agreeEquity 1,182.9 1,193.2 5 ments contain a covenant according to which the Company Total assets 2,620.9 2,595.2 represents and warrants that its financial status will 6 remain such that the consolidated shareholders’ equity is Gearing 54% 54% 7 always at least 25% of the consolidated total assets Equity ratio 45% 46% (equity ratio). 8 9 10 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2016 2015 11 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 12 Cash and cash equivalents 95.1 95.1 106.1 106.1 Money market investments 78.3 78.3 45.4 45.4 13 Total 173.4 173.4 151.5 151.5 14 Money market investments are short-term. 15 16 NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND AMORTIZATIONS OF NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LOANS 17 Dec 31, 2016 Maturity 18 Currency Fair value Book value 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 202219 EUR 617.9 599.0 19.3 10.0 210.0 209.7 150.0 USD 117.7 112.7 43.7 69.0 20 Other 1.1 1.1 0.4 0.4 0.3 21 Total 736.7 712.8 63.4 79.4 210.3 209.7 150.0 22 Dec 31, 2015 Maturity 23 Currency Fair value Book value 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021EUR 607.2 586.6 25.8 24.8 15.9 209.9 160.2 150.0 24 USD 124.9 120.5 11.5 42.2 66.8 25 Other 1.1 1.1 0.6 0.3 0.2 Total 733.2 708.2 37.3 67.6 83.0 210.1 160.2 150.0 26 27 The figures include the amortizations planned for 2017 (2016) excluding other current loans. 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 60 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) CASH FLOW FROM ALL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Note Dec 31, 2016 Maturity Loan type Drawn Undrawn 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022Long-term interest-bearing 1 liabilities 360.0 63.0 79.4 7.9 209.7 financial expenses 7.6 6.2 4.6 4.4 2 Bonds 1) 352.3 202.3 150.0 financial expenses 8.4 8.4 5.9 3.4 3.4 1.7 3 Revolving credit facility 400.0 4 financial expenses 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.6 Finance lease liabilities 0.5 0.4 0.1 5 financial expenses 0.1 6 Commercial paper program 600.0 financial expenses 7 Other interest-bearing current loans 94.6 94.6 8 financial expenses 3.0 Interest-bearing loans total 807.4 1,000.0 177.9 94.9 221.5 218.1 3.4 151.7 9 10 Trade payables 159.6 Forward contracts 11 liabilities 4.1 4.1 assets -2.8 -2.8 12 2) Other derivatives 3.0 0.1 0.2 0.5 2.2 13 Trade payables and derivatives total 163.9 1.4 0.2 0.5 2.2 14 Total 971.3 1,000.0 179.3 95.1 222.0 220.3 3.4 151.7 15 Guarantees 3.1 16 17 Dec 31, 2015 Maturity Loan type Drawn Undrawn 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 202118 Long-term interest bearing liabilities 354.6 50.0 36.7 67.4 82.8 7.5 160.2 financial expenses 7.1 6.4 5.1 3.4 3.2 19 Bonds 1) 352.4 202.4 150.0 20 financial expenses 8.4 8.4 8.4 8.4 5.9 3.4 Revolving credit facility 400.0 21 financial expenses 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.6 22 Finance lease liabilities 1.2 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.2 financial expenses 0.1 23 Commercial paper program 600.0 24 financial expenses Other interest-bearing current loans 85.4 85.4 25 financial expenses 3.0 26 Interest-bearing loans total 793.6 1,050.0 142.1 83.2 97.3 222.7 169.9 153.4 27 Trade payables 162.4 Forward contracts 28 liabilities 2.1 2.1 29 assets -5.2 -5.2 Other derivatives 2) 12.2 5.6 3.3 2.1 0.4 0.8 30 Trade payables and derivatives total 171.5 2.5 3.3 2.1 0.4 0.8 31 Total 965.1 1,050.0 144.6 86.5 99.4 223.1 170.7 153.4 32 Guarantees 3.0 33 1) Includes hedge accounting adjustment of EUR 2.3 million (2.4). 2) Interest rate swaps and electricity forwards. 34 2016 61 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 29. C  OMMITMENTS AND violation of the applicable competition rules by the parties CONTINGENT LIABILITIES which have assigned and sold their claim to Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA. In the original summons such alleged overcharge, together with accrued interest COMMITMENTS 2016 2015 1 until December 31, 2008, was stated to be EUR 641.3 million. 2 Assets pledged Thereafter Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA On behalf of own commitments 5.9 6.1 3 delivered to the attorneys of the defendants an April 14, 2011 dated brief addressed to the court and an expert 4 Guarantees opinion. In the said brief the minimum damage including On behalf of own commitments 54.4 52.9 5 accrued interest until December 31, 2010, based on the On behalf of others 3.1 3.0 expert opinion, was stated to be EUR 475.6 million. It is 6 further stated in the brief that the damages analysis of the Operating lease commitments – the 7 Group as lessee expert does not include lost profit. Minimum lease payments under The process is currently pending in the Regional Court 8 operating leases are as follows: of Dortmund, Germany. By its decision on April 29, 2013 it No later than 1 year 39.7 37.5 decided to suspend the case and to ask a preliminary ruling 9 Later than 1 year and no later than on jurisdiction from the Court of Justice of the European 10 5 years 88.7 89.5 Union which has given its ruling on May 21, 2015. ThereafLater than 5 years 82.8 95.2 ter, on request by Regional Court of Dortmund, the parties 11 Total 211.2 222.2 have filed their briefs on admissibility of the proceedings. 12 In its brief responding to the said request of the court Other obligations Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA has addition13 On behalf of own commitments 1.1 1.1 ally waived seeking an order to obtain an unabridged and On behalf of associates 0.4 0.6 14 full copy of the decision of the European Commission, dated May 3, 2006, and demanded from Kemira and the 15 three other defendants jointly and severally damages an 16 THE MOST SIGNIFICANT OFF-BALANCE SHEET amount to be decided by the court but at least EUR 196.2 INVESTMENTS COMMITMENTS million together with accrued interest calculated from 17 August 24, 2009 at an interest rate exceeding by 5 per cent 18 On December 31, 2016, major amounts of contractual the base rate at a time, and other interest of EUR 97.6 commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and million. Kemira defends against the claim of Cartel Damage 19 equipment were about EUR 48.4 million (22.6) for plant Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA. investments. Kemira Oyj has additionally been served on April 28, 20 2011 a summons stating that Cartel Damage Claims 21 Hydrogen Peroxide SA had filed an application for LITIGATION summons in the municipal court of Helsinki for violations 22 of competition law applicable to the hydrogen peroxide 23 On August 19, 2009, Kemira Oyj received a summons business claiming from Kemira Oyj as maximum compenstating that Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA sation EUR 78.0 million as well as overdue interest starting 24 had filed an action against six hydrogen peroxide manufacfrom November 10, 2008 as litigation expenses with 25 turers, including Kemira, for violations of competition law overdue interest. The referred violations of competition law applicable to the hydrogen peroxide business. In its claim, are the same as those on basis of which CDC has taken 26 Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA seeks an legal action in Germany in Dortmund. The municipal court 27 order from the Regional Court of Dortmund in Germany to made on July 4, 2013 a decision which could not be obtain an unabridged and full copy of the decision of the appealed separately. In its decision the municipal court 28 European Commission, dated May 3, 2006, and demands considered to have jurisdiction and that the claims made that the defendants, including Kemira, are jointly and by the claimant were at least not totally time-barred. On 29 severally ordered to pay damages together with accrued May 19, 2014 Kemira announced that it had signed an 30 interest on the basis of such decision. agreement with Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA stated SA and CDC Holding SA (together “CDC”) to settle the 31 that it will specify the amount of the damages at a later lawsuit in Helsinki, Finland. Based on the settlement CDC 32 stage after the full copy of the decision of the European withdrew the damages claims and Kemira paid to CDC a Commission has been obtained by it. In order to provide compensation of EUR 18.5 million and compensated CDC 33 initial guidance as to the amount of such damages, Cartel for its legal costs. The settlement also includes significant 34 Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA presented in its limitations of liabilities for Kemira regarding the pending claim a preliminary calculation of the alleged overcharge legal actions filed by CDC entities in Dortmund, Germany having been paid to the defendants as a result of the 62 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) (mentioned above) and in Amsterdam, the Netherlands 30. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS AND Note (mentioned below). LIABILITIES Kemira Oyj's subsidiary Kemira Chemicals Oy (former Finnish Chemicals Oy) has on June 9, 2011 received documents where it was stated that CDC Project 13 SA has The bulk of Kemira’s business is in the chemical industry. 1 filed an action against four companies in municipal court of Our operations are governed by numerous international 2 Amsterdam, including Kemira, asking damages for violaagreements and regional and national legislation all over tions of competition law applicable to the sodium chlorate the world. The Group treats its environmental liabilities and 3 business. The European Commission set on June 2008 a risks in the consolidated financial statements in accord4 fine of EUR 10.15 million on Finnish Chemicals Oy for ance with IFRS and observes the established internal antitrust activity in the company's sodium chlorate environmental principles and procedures. Provisions for 5 business during 1994–2000. Kemira Oyj acquired Finnish environmental remediation totaled EUR 19.4 million (19.2). 6 Chemicals in 2005. The municipal court of Amsterdam The biggest provisions relate to site closures and the decided on June 4, 2014 to have jurisdiction over the case. limited reconditioning of the sediment of a lake adjacent in 7 The said decision on jurisdiction was appealed by Kemira Vaasa, Finland. to the court of appeal of Amsterdam. According to the 8 decision by the court of appeal on July 21, 2015, the 9 municipal court of Amsterdam has jurisdiction over the EMISSION ALLOWANCES case. The proceedings now continue at the municipal court 10 of Amsterdam where Kemira is the only defendant after the The Group holds assigned emissions allowances under the 11 other defendants have settled the claim with CDC Project EU Emissions Trading System in Sweden. At Group level, 13 SA. CDC Project 13 SA claims from Kemira in its brief the allowances showed a net surplus of 56,165 tons in 12 filed to the municipal court of Amsterdam EUR 61,1 million 2016 (a net surplus of 62,349 tons). 13 as damages and interested calculated until December 2, 2015 from which amount CDC Project 13 SA asks the court 14 to deduct the share of the earlier other defendants for 15 other sales than made by them directly, and statutory interest on so defined amount starting from December 2, 16 2015. Kemira defends against the claim of CDC Project 13 SA. 17 As mentioned above the settlement between Kemira 18 and CDC relating the Helsinki litigation also includes significant limitations of liabilities for Kemira regarding the 19 pending legal actions filed by CDC entities in Dortmund, 20 Germany and in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. However, regardless of such limitations of liabilities, Kemira is 21 currently not in a position to make any estimate regarding 22 the duration or the likely outcome of the said processes. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of the processes, 23 and unfavorable judgments against Kemira could have a 24 material adverse effect on Kemira’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Due to its extensive 25 international operations the Group, in addition to the above referred claims, is involved in a number of other legal 26 proceedings incidental to these operations and it does not 27 expect the outcome of these other currently pending legal proceedings to have materially adverse effect upon its 28 consolidated results or financial position. 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 63 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 31. RELATED PARTIES Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ventures and the Pension Fund Neliapila. Related parties ability to control the other party or exercise significant also include the members of the Board of Directors and the 1 influence, or exercise joint control in making financial and Group's Management Boards, the CEO and his Deputy and, operating decisions. The Group's related parties include their immediate family members. 2 the parent company, subsidiaries, associates, joint3 4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS OF CEO, DEPUTY CEO AND MEMBERS OF MANAGEMENT BOARD 5 Salaries Shareand other based Severance 6 benefits, Bonuses, payments, payments, EUR EUR EUR 1) EUR 2016 2015 7 CEO Jari Rosendal 567,000 324,000 603,177 1,494,177 669,765 8 Deputy CEO Jukka Hakkila 2) 181,653 86,502 211,117 479,272 225,242 Other members of Management Board 3) 2,194,639 997,872 1,805,836 4,998,347 2,519,733 9 Total 2,943,292 1,408,374 2,620,130 6,971,796 3,414,740 10 1) Share-based incentive plans for management and key personnel are disclosed in Note 5. 2) Jukka Hakkila is not a member of the Management Board. 11 3) Members of the Management Board who are employed by a Finnish Kemira company do not have any supplementary pension arrangements in addition to the statutory pensions. The members of the Management Board who are employed by a foreign Kemira company participate in the 12 pension systems based on statutory pension arrangements and market practices in their local countries. The Kemira policy is that all new supplementary pension arrangements are defined contribution plans. 13 14 EMPLOYMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF CEO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' EMOLUMENTS 15 16 Remuneration of CEO comprises a monthly salary including On March 21, 2016, the Annual General Meeting decided a car benefit and a mobile phone benefit, and perforthat the annual fee shall be paid as a combination of the 17 mance-based incentives. The performance-based incencompany’s shares and cash in such a manner that 40% of 18 tives consist of an annual short-term bonus plan and a long the annual fee is paid with the Kemira shares owned by the term share incentive plan. The annual short-term bonus company or, if this is not possible, Kemira shares acquired 19 plan is based on terms approved by the Board of Directors from the securities market, and 60% is paid in cash. The and the maximum bonus is 60 percent of the annual salary. shares will be transferred to the members of the Board of 20 The long-term share incentive plan is based on the terms Directors within two weeks after the release of Kemira’s 21 of the plan. The maximum reward is determined as a Interim Report January 1 March 31, 2016. number of shares and a cash portion to cover taxes and the There are no special terms or conditions associated 22 tax-related costs arising from the reward. with owning these shares received as the annual fee. The 23 CEO Jari Rosendal belongs to the Finnish Employees’ members of the Board of Directors are not eligible for any Pension Act (TyEL) scheme, which provides pension short-term bonus plans, long-term share incentive plans or 24 security based on the years of service and earnings as supplementary pension plans of Kemira Oyj. 25 stipulated by law. CEO’s retirement age is determined by The meeting fees are paid in cash and travel expenses TyEL. CEO has not a separate supplementary pension are paid according to Kemira's travel policy. 26 arrangement. 27 A mutual termination notice period of six months applies to CEO. CEO is entitled to an additional severance 28 pay of 12 months' salary, in case the company will terminate his service. 29 30 31 32 33 34 64 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Note Cash Number of Share value, compensation, 2016 2015 shares EUR EUR 4) Total, EUR Total, EUR Jari Paasikivi, Chairman 3,043 31,561 59,934 91,495 92,107 1 Kerttu Tuomas, Vice Chairman 1,864 19,333 37,758 57,091 58,899 Wolfgang Büchele 1,483 15,381 35,373 50,754 53,160 2 Winnie Fok 1,483 15,381 49,773 65,154 69,960 Juha Laaksonen 1,864 19,333 41,358 60,691 61,299 3 Timo Lappalainen 1,483 15,381 32,973 48,354 48,960 4 Kaisa Hietala (since March 21, 2016) 1,483 15,381 31,773 47,154 Total 12,703 131,751 288,942 420,693 384,385 5 4) Includes the annual fees and the meeting fees. 6 7 TRANSACTIONS CARRIED OUT The amount of contingent liabilities on behalf of associates WITH RELATED PARTIES are presented in Note 29. 8 Related parties include Pension Fund Neliapila, which 9 2016 2015 is a separate legal entity. Pension Fund Neliapila manages Revenue Kemira Oyj's voluntarily organized additional pension fund. 10 Associated companies 1.5 1.7 Pension Fund Neliapila manages part of the pension assets 11 of the Group's personnel in Finland. The assets include Purchases Kemira shares representing 0.07% of the company's 12 Associated companies 3.3 3.2 outstanding shares. Supplementary benefit in Pension 13 Pension Fund Neliapila 1.2 1.1 Fund Neliapila are presented in more detail in Note 22. Total 4.5 4.3 No loans had been granted to the key persons of the 14 management at year-end of 2015 and 2016, nor were there 15 Receivables contingency items or commitments on behalf of key Associated companies 0.1 0.1 management personnel. Persons close to key management 16 personnel with the related parties do not have any significant business relationship with the Group. 17 Liabilities Associated companies 0.3 0.3 18 19 20 32. CHANGES IN THE GROUP STRUCTURE 21 22 DIVESTMENTS OF GROUP COMPANIES CHANGES IN THE HOLDINGS OF GROUP 23 COMPANIES WITHIN THE GROUP 24 • TRICHEM SOLUTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED was sold on February 6, 2016. • Kemira Korea Corporation was merged with and into 25 • Kemira Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. was dissolved on February Kemira Chemicals Korea Corporation on January 1, 2016. 19, 2016. • Kemira Logistics, Inc. merged with and into Kemira 26 • Kemira de Mexico S.A. de C.V. was dissolved on FebruWater Solutions, Inc. on March 31, 2016. 27 ary 24, 2016. • PT Kemira Indonesia sold shares of PT Kemira Chemicals Indonesia to Kemira Oyj on August 15, 2016. 28 • Kemira Oyj sold shares of Kemira Chemicals Germany 29 GmbH to Kemira Germany GmbH on October 14, 2016. • Kemira Germany Sales GmbH merged with and into 30 Kemira Chemicals Germany GmbH on December 15, 31 2016. 32 NAME CHANGES 33 Former name New name 34 Kemira Chemicals India Private Limited TRICHEM SOLUTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED 2016 65 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 33. THE GROUP'S SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES SUBSIDIARIES 1 Non2 Kemira controlling Group's Kemira Oyj's interest's 3 City Country Holding % Holding % Holding % 4 Kemira Oyj (parent company) Helsinki Finland Aliada Quimica de Portugal Lda. Estarreja Portugal 50.1 49.9 5 AS Kemivesi Tallinn Estonia 100.0 100.0 CJSC Kemira HIM St. Petersburg Russia 100.0 6 Corporación Kemira Chemicals de Venezuela, C.A. Caracas Venezuela 100.0 7 Industry Park i Helsingborg Förvaltning AB Helsingborg Sweden 100.0 Kemifloc a.s. Přerov Czech Republic 51.0 49.0 8 Kemifloc Slovakia S.r.o. Prešov Slovakia 51.0 49.0 9 Kemipol Sp. z o.o. Police Poland 51.0 49.0 Kemira (Asia) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.0 10 Kemira Argentina S.A. Buenos Aires Argentina 100.0 15.8 11 Kemira Australia Pty Ltd Hallam Australia 100.0 Kemira Cell Sp.z.o.o Ostroleka Poland 55.0 55.0 45.0 12 Kemira Chemicals (Nanjing) Co. Ltd. Nanjing China 100.0 100.0 13 Kemira Chemicals (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100.0 100.0 Kemira Chemicals (UK) Ltd. Harrogate United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 14 Kemira Chemicals (Yanzhou) Co., Ltd. Yanzhou City China 100.0 100.0 Kemira Chemicals AS Gamle Fredrikstad Norway 100.0 15 Kemira Chemicals Brasil Ltda São Paulo Brazil 100.0 99.9 16 Kemira Chemicals Canada Inc. Maitland Canada 100.0 100.0 Kemira Chemicals Germany GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 100.0 17 Kemira Chemicals Korea Corporation Gunsan-City Korea 100.0 100.0 18 Kemira Chemicals NV Aartselaar Belgium 100.0 Kemira Chemicals Oy Helsinki Finland 100.0 19 Kemira Chemicals, Inc. Atlanta, GA United States 100.0 20 Kemira Chemicals Spain S.A. Barcelona Spain 100.0 Kemira Chemie Ges.mbH Krems Austria 100.0 100.0 21 Kemira Chile Comercial Limitada Santiago Chile 100.0 99.0 22 Kemira Chimie S.A.S.U. Lauterbourg France 100.0 Kemira Europe Oy Helsinki Finland 100.0 100.0 23 Kemira Finance Solutions B.V. Rotterdam Netherlands 100.0 Kemira France SAS Lauterbourg France 100.0 24 Kemira Gdańsk Sp. z o.o. Gdansk Poland 100.0 25 Kemira Germany GmbH Leverkusen Germany 100.0 100.0 Kemira GrowHow A / S Fredericia Denmark 100.0 100.0 26 Kemira Hong Kong Company Limited Hong Kong China 100.0 100.0 27 Kemira Ibérica S.A. Barcelona Spain 100.0 Kemira Ibérica Sales and Marketing S.L. Barcelona Spain 100.0 28 Kemira International Finance B.V. Rotterdam Netherlands 100.0 29 Kemira Italy S.p.A. San Giorgio di Nogaro Italy 100.0 Kemira Japan Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 100.0 30 Kemira Kemi AB Helsingborg Sweden 100.0 Kemira Kopparverket KB Helsingborg Sweden 100.0 31 Kemira KTM d.o.o. Ljubljana Slovenia 100.0 100.0 32 Kemira Nederland Holding B.V. Rotterdam Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Kemira Operon Oy Helsinki Finland 100.0 100.0 33 Kemira Rotterdam B.V. Rotterdam Netherlands 100.0 34 Kemira South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Weltevredenpark South Africa 100.0 Kemira Świecie Sp. z o.o. Swiecie Poland 100.0 100.0 66 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 1 Non2 Kemira controlling Group's Kemira Oyj's interest's 3 City Country Holding % Holding % Holding % Kemira Taiwan Corporation Taipei Taiwan 100.0 4 Kemira (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Bangkok Thailand 100.0 Kemira Uruguay S.A. Montevideo Uruguay 100.0 5 Kemira Water Danmark A / S Esbjerg Denmark 100.0 100.0 6 Kemira Water Solutions Brasil -Produtos para tratamento de agua Ltda. São Paulo Brazil 100.0 100.0 7 Kemira Water Solutions Canada Inc. Varennes Qs Canada 100.0 Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. Atlanta, GA United States 100.0 8 Kemwater Brasil S.A. Camaçari Brazil 100.0 9 Kemwater ProChemie s.r.o. Kosmonosy Czech Republic 95.1 4.9 PT Kemira Indonesia Jakarta Indonesia 100.0 74.8 10 PT Kemira Chemicals Indonesia Pasuruan Indonesia 99.8 0.2 11 Scandinavian Tanking System A / S Copenhagen Denmark 100.0 ZAO Avers St. Petersburg Russia 100.0 12 13 14 ASSOCIATES 15 Kemira 16 Group's Kemira Oyj's City Country Holding % Holding % 17 FC Energia Oy Ikaalinen Finland 34.0 FC Power Oy Ikaalinen Finland 34.0 18 Haapaveden Ympäristöpalvelut Oy Haapavesi Finland 40.5 19 Honkalahden Teollisuuslaituri Oy Joutseno Finland 50.0 20 21 22 23 24 34. E VENTS AFTER THE BALANCE 25 SHEET DATE 26 27 The Group has no significant events after the balance sheet date. 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 2016 67 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Income Statement (EUR) KEMIRA OYJ INCOME STATEMENT (FAS) Year ended 31 December Note 2016 2015 Revenue 2 1,364,211,556.79 1,347,012,217.00 Change in inventories of finished goods 4 2,755,294.03 3,953,695.97 Other operating income 3 2,273,459.05 3,002,062.57 Materials and services 4 -851,640,194.15 -866,441,566.01 Personnel expenses 5 -47,003,676.91 -42,156,568.73 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 6 -38,511,189.49 -38,197,982.33 Other operating expenses 4 -393,603,485.01 -336,150,104.02 Operating profit / loss 38,481,764.31 71,021,754.45 Financial income and expenses 7 182,211,554.97 104,816,107.86 Profit / loss before appropriations and taxes 220,693,319.28 175,837,862.31 Appropriations 8 2,694,417.39 2,235,818.95 Income taxes 9 -7,605,755.19 -12,917,723.00 Net profit for the period 215,781,981.48 165,155,958.26 68 2016 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Balance Sheet (EUR) KEMIRA OYJ BALANCE SHEET (FAS) As at 31 December Note 2016 2015 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets 10 82,956,948.85 100,880,994.96 Property, plant and equipment 11 30,383,281.23 33,434,220.14 Investments 12 Shares in subsidiaries 2,103,542,628.42 2,083,703,472.85 Other investments 118,574,547.83 148,222,158.17 Total investments 2,222,117,176.25 2,231,925,631.02 Total non-current assets 2,335,457,406.33 2,366,240,846.12 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 13 83,345,318.15 85,390,061.32 Non-current receivables 14 310,822,574.15 266,310,037.66 Current receivables 14 290,600,971.41 317,022,561.67 Money market investments 15 70,719,098.15 30,394,906.22 Cash and cash equivalents 57,070,058.22 63,910,883.58 Total current assets 812,558,020.08 763,028,450.45 Total assets 3,148,015,426.41 3,129,269,296.57 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY 16 Share capital 221,761,727.69 221,761,727.69 Share premium 257,877,731.94 257,877,731.94 Fair value reserve 2,717,240.52 -4,657,093.00 Unrestricted equity reserve 199,963,876.20 199,963,876.20 Retained earnings 406,303,596.51 319,793,483.44 Net profit / loss for the financial year 215,781,981.48 165,155,958.26 Total equity 1,304,406,154.34 1,159,895,684.53 Appropriations 17 6,901,698.88 9,596,116.27 Obligatory provisions 18 21,514,581.37 19,484,405.66 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities 19 610,798,960.37 601,111,567.30 Current liabilities 20 1,204,394,031.45 1,339,181,522.81 Total liabilities 1,815,192,991.82 1,940,293,090.11 Total equity and liabilities 3,148,015,426.41 3,129,269,296.57 2016 69 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Cash Flow Statement (EUR) KEMIRA OYJ CASH FLOW STATEMENT (FAS) 2016 2015 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net profit for the period 215,781,981.48 165,155,958.26 Adjustments for Depreciation, amortization and impairments 38,511,189.49 38,197,982.33 Income taxes 7,605,755.19 12,917,723.00 Finance expenses, net -182,211,554.97 -104,816,107.86 Other non-cash items and expenses not involving cash flow 11,774,509.54 14,182,127.73 Operating profit before change in working capital 91,461,880.73 125,637,683.46 Change in working capital Increase (-) / decrease (+) in inventories 2,044,743.17 -8,106,386.66 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in trade and other receivables 30,500,627.07 -47,042,548.95 Increase (+) / decrease (-) in trade payables and other liabilities -20,456,698.29 30,052,413.06 Change in working capital 12,088,671.95 -25,096,522.55 Cash generated from operations before financing items and taxes 103,550,552.68 100,541,160.91 Interest and other finance cost paid -27,030,509.80 -40,242,953.02 Interest and other finance income received 21,655,705.11 9,273,523.73 Realized exchange gains and losses -9,324,161.58 -5,553,184.83 Dividends received 173,072,698.42 134,536,455.90 Income taxes paid -5,345,063.26 -1,141,217.06 Net cash generated from operating activities 256,579,221.57 197,413,785.63 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisitions of subsidiaries and increases in subsidiaries -19,906,487.93 -534,837,144.91 Acquisitions of associated companies, and other shares 0.00 -4,224,953.64 Purchases of intangible assets -13,498,891.85 -45,749,471.95 Purchases of property, plant and equipment -4,183,211.65 -10,927,742.35 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries and other shares 38,649,269.00 134,852.81 Proceeds from sale of other plant, property and equipment and intangible assets 276,510.56 3,148.42 Change in loan receivables, net increase (-) / decrease (+) -44,512,536.49 -84,058,933.99 Net cash used in investing activities -43,175,348.36 -679,660,245.61 Cash flow before financing 213,403,873.21 -482,246,459.98 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from non-current interest-bearing liabilities (+) 50,000,000.00 250,000,000.00 Repayment from non-current interest-bearing liabilities (-) -40,312,606.93 -31,792,432.89 Short-term financing, net increase (+) / decrease (-) -110,808,548.15 353,737,864.80 Dividends paid -80,748,892.00 -80,587,227.16 Received group contribution 2,850,000.00 4,051,000.00 Net cash used in financing activities -179,020,047.08 495,409,204.75 Net increase (+) / decrease (-) in cash and cash equivalents 34,383,826.13 13,162,744.77 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec 127,789,156.37 94,305,789.80 Exchange gains (+) / losses (-) on cash and cash equivalents -900,459.56 -4,503,177.80 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 Jan 94,305,789.80 85,646,222.83 Net increase (+) / decrease (-) in cash and cash equivalents 34,383,826.13 13,162,744.77 70 2016 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) NOTES TO KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1. THE PARENT COMPANY'S SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE PLANS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE 2 The treatment of share-based plans is described in the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group’s accounting policies. In the parent company, cash 3 proportion of share-based incentive plans is recognized as 4 an expense in the performance year and share proportion BASIS OF PREPARATION in the year shares are given using the average share price. 5 6 The parent company’s financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the relevant acts and regulaINCOME TAXES 7 tions in force in Finland (FAS). Changes in Finnish Accounting Act have been adopted and prior year has been reclasThe Group’s accounting policies are applied to income 8 sified accordingly. Kemira Group’s financial statements taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities as permitted 9 have been prepared in accordance with the International under Finnish GAAP. Deferred tax liability for the appropriaFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the parent tions is stated in the notes to financial statements. 10 company observes the Group’s accounting policies accord11 ing to FAS whenever it has been possible. Mainly the accounting policies are presented below, in which the LEASE 12 practice differs from the Group’s accounting policies. In 13 other respects the Group’s accounting policies are Lease payments are treated as rental expenses. observed. 14 15 FINANCIAL ASSETS, FINANCIAL LIABILITIES REVENUE AND DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS 16 Kemira Oyj's revenue consists of mainly revenues from the All financial assets (including shares) and liabilities are 17 sale of goods and services. Revenue includes also interrecognized at their acquisition value or their acquisition 18 company service charges due to change in definition of value less write-downs, with the exception of derivative Accounting Act effective 2016. Reclassifications have been instruments, which are measured at their fair value. 19 applied also to comparison figures. Changes in the value of the financial assets and 20 liabilities, including derivatives, are booked as a credit or charge into income statement under financial income and 21 PENSION ARRANGEMENTS expenses, with the exception of other derivatives used for 22 hedging purposes, the efficient part of which is booked to a The company’s statutory pensions are handled by pension fair value reserve. Inefficient part of other derivative insurance companies and supplemental pensions mainly instruments used for hedging purposes is booked as profit by Kemira’s own pension fund. Pension costs consist of or loss into the income statement. payments to pension insurance companies and possible The valuation methods of derivative instruments are contributions to pension fund and are recognized in the described in the Group's accounting policies and in Note 28 income statement. in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2016 71 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 2. REVENUE 2016 2015 1 Revenue by segments Pulp & Paper 724,290,860.70 722,951,092.02 2 Oil & Mining 121,216,154.43 107,914,648.61 3 Municipal & Industrial 278,400,094.75 282,421,395.13 Intercompany revenue 240,304,446.91 233,725,081.24 4 Total 1,364,211,556.79 1,347,012,217.00 5 Distribution of revenue by geographical areas as a percentage of total revenue 6 Finland, domicile of the parent company 27 28 7 Other Europe, Middle East and Africa 59 59 Americas 7 7 8 Asia Pacific 7 6 9 Total 100 100 10 11 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 1) 12 2016 2015 13 14 Gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment 122,813.14 3,148.42 Rent income 975,904.36 1,184,262.09 15 Other income from operations 1,174,741.55 1,814,652.06 16 Total 2,273,459.05 3,002,062.57 17 1) Some items presented earlier in other operating income have been transferred to revenue due to change in definition of Accounting Act effective 2016. Reclassifications have been applied also to comparison figures. 18 19 20 4. COSTS 21 2016 2015 22 Change in inventories of finished goods -2,755,294.03 -3,953,695.97 Materials and services Materials and supplies Purchases during the financial year 840,073,110.26 857,552,177.95 Change in inventories of materials and supplies 1,690,639.92 -702,429.06 External services 9,876,443.97 9,591,817.12 Total materials and services 851,640,194.15 866,441,566.01 Personnel expenses 47,003,676.91 42,156,568.73 Other operating expenses Rents 9,586,333.83 5,970,972.97 Intercompany tolling manufacturing charges 179,941,960.81 179,054,783.95 Other intercompany charges 149,981,501.52 92,401,538.68 Other expenses 54,093,688.85 58,722,808.42 Total other operating expenses 393,603,485.01 336,150,104.02 Total costs 1,289,492,062.04 1,240,794,542.79 72 2016 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) In 2016, the costs included a net increase in the obligatory 6. D EPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION Note provisions of EUR +2.0 million (personnel expenses EUR AND IMPAIRMENTS -0.3 million, rents EUR +2.4 million and other expenses EUR -0.1 million), and in 2015, the costs included a net 2016 2015 decrease in the obligatory provisions of EUR -0.4 million 1 (personnel expenses EUR -0.7 million, rents EUR -0.4 Depreciation according to plan 2 million and other expenses EUR +0.7 million). and impairments Intangible assets 3 DELOITTE & TOUCHE OY'S FEES AND SERVICES Intangible rights 12.268.318.14 10.452.379.69 4 2016 2015 Other intangible assets 19.154.619.82 21.147.260.08 Tangible assets 5 Audit fees 423,500.00 415,000.00 Impairment of land and water 109.776.05 0.00 6 Tax services 130,530.00 50,000.00 Buildings and constructions 351.731.82 346.416.22 Other services 1) 412,554.00 445,000.00 Machinery and equipment 6.611.898.84 6.232.973.18 7 Other property, plant and equipment 14.844.82 18.953.16 8 1) In 2016, other services include fees mainly related to the internal Total 38.511.189.49 38.197.982.33 rationalization projects and AkzoNobel’s global paper chemicals 9 business acquisition. In 2015, other services include fees mainly related to the AkzoNobel’s global paper chemicals business 10 acquisition. 11 12 5. PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND 13 NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 14 15 2016 2015 16 Emoluments of the Board of 17 Directors, the CEOs and his Deputy 1) 2,394,141.66 1,279,391.34 18 Other wages and salaries 35,867,385.14 32,508,815.66 Pension expenses 6,823,398.55 6,324,848.06 19 Other personnel expenses 1,918,751.56 2,043,513.67 20 Total 47,003,676.91 42,156,568.73 21 1) The emolument of the Kemira Oyj's CEO was EUR 1,494,177 (669,765) including bonuses and share-based payments of EUR 927,177 22 (109,965). The emolument of the Kemira Oyj's Deputy CEO was EUR 479,272 (225,242) including bonuses and share-based payments of EUR 297,619 (44,287). Other transactions between related parties are presented in Note 31 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2016 2015 Personnel at 31 Dec Pulp & Paper 91 83 Oil & Mining 5 5 Municipal & Industrial 31 28 Other, of which 366 371 R&D and Technology 162 173 Total 493 487 Personnel, average 495 483 2016 73 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 7. FINANCE INCOME AND 8. APPROPRIATIONS EXPENSES 2016 2015 2016 2015 1 Change in difference between scheduled and actual 2 Dividend income depreciation (increase / From the Group companies 172,934,588.42 134,501,680.90 decrease +) 3 From others 138,110.00 34,775.00 Intangible rights 14,493.48 -907,451.08 4 Total 173,072,698.42 134,536,455.90 Other intangible assets 1,546,056.00 -588,848.12 Buildings and constructions 140,150.29 147,774.12 5 Machinery and equipment 983,870.47 735,433.53 Interest income From the Group companies 14,394,515.64 11,071,308.86 Other property, plant and 6 equipment 9,847.15 -1,089.50 From others 436,754.97 765,614.19 7 Total 2,694,417.39 -614,181.05 Total 14,831,270.61 11,836,923.05 8 Group contribution Interest expenses 9 Group contributions received 0.00 2,850,000.00 To the Group companies -846,093.05 -696,132.31 Total 0.00 2,850,000.00 To others -16,928,675.43 -18,333,242.85 10 Total -17,774,768.48 -19,029,375.16 Total appropriations 2,694,417.39 2,235,818.95 11 Other finance income 12 From the Group companies 3,841,440.59 894,798.55 From others 7,610,429.09 134,852.81 13 Total 11,451,869.68 1,029,651.36 9. INCOME TAXES 14 Other finance expenses (income +, expense -) 2016 2015 15 1) To the Group companies 0.00 -16,579,854.88 16 To others -2,305,296.97 -8,397,520.47 Income taxes, current year -4,699,620.09 -1,271,420.66 Income taxes, previous years 336,118.20 300,000.00 Total -2,305,296.97 -24,977,375.35 17 Deferred taxes -1,134,094.13 -9,170,081.91 18 Other taxes -2,108,159.17 -2,776,220.43 Exchange gains and losses From the Group companies 8,043,452.25 3,277,812.55 Total -7,605,755.19 -12,917,723.00 19 From others -5,107,670.54 -1,857,984.49 20 Total 2,935,781.71 1,419,828.06 21 Total finance income and expenses 182,211,554.97 104,816,107.86 22 Exchange gains and losses Realized -9,324,161.58 -5,553,184.83 Unrealized 12,259,943.29 6,973,012.89 Total 2,935,781.71 1,419,828.06 1) In 2016, other finance expenses from the Group companies include impairment of subsidiary shares of EUR 0.0 million (16.6). 74 2016 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Note Prepayments and non-current assets under Other intangible 1 2016 Intangible rights Goodwill constructions assets Total 2 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 72,758,028.28 6,181,419.27 12,496,146.08 183,989,932.81 275,425,526.44 3 Additions 5,300,284.73 3,861,735.49 394,355.93 9,556,376.15 Decreases -599,633.99 -801,224.21 -1,400,858.20 4 Transfers 9,970,823.35 -12,444,146.08 6,415,838.43 3,942,515.70 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 87,429,502.37 6,181,419.27 3,913,735.49 189,998,902.96 287,523,560.09 5 6 Accumulated amortization at 1 Jan -26,295,330.61 -6,181,419.27 0.00 -142,067,781.60 -174,544,531.48 Accumulated amortization relating to 7 decreases and transfers 599,633.99 801,224.21 1,400,858.20 Amortization and impairments during the 8 financial year -12,268,318.14 -19,154,619.82 -31,422,937.96 9 Accumulated amortization at 31 Dec -37,964,014.76 -6,181,419.27 0.00 -160,421,177.21 -204,566,611.24 10 Net book value at 31 Dec 49,465,487.61 0.00 3,913,735.49 29,577,725.75 82,956,948.85 11 Prepayments 12 and non-current assets under Other intangible 13 2015 Intangible rights Goodwill constructions assets Total 14 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 44,049,063.67 6,181,419.27 9,815,011.73 185,832,090.74 245,877,585.41 15 Additions 30,715,935.10 7,029,411.36 8,004,125.49 45,749,471.95 Decreases -4,553,037.42 -11,648,493.50 -16,201,530.92 16 Transfers 2,546,066.93 -4,348,277.01 1,802,210.08 0.00 17 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 72,758,028.28 6,181,419.27 12,496,146.08 183,989,932.81 275,425,526.44 18 Accumulated amortization at 1 Jan -20,395,988.34 -6,181,419.27 0.00 -132,569,015.02 -159,146,422.63 19 Accumulated amortization relating to decreases and transfers 4,553,037.42 11,648,493.50 16,201,530.92 20 Amortization and impairments during the financial year -10,452,379.69 -21,147,260.08 -31,599,639.77 21 Accumulated amortization at 31 Dec -26,295,330.61 -6,181,419.27 0.00 -142,067,781.60 -174,544,531.48 22 Net book value at 31 Dec 46,462,697.67 0.00 12,496,146.08 41,922,151.21 100,880,994.96 2016 75 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Prepayments Other property, and non-current Land and Buildings and Machinery and plant and assets under 1 2016 water areas constructions equipment equipment construction Total 2 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 1,175,482.19 17,107,512.52 98,934,631.85 553,073.82 7,735,350.77 125,506,051.15 3 Additions 64,377.03 3,023,625.19 5,037,725.13 8,125,727.35 4 Decreases -91,989.24 -38,411.60 -2,490,537.21 -2,620,938.05 Transfers 297,187.68 3,203,917.25 -7,443,620.63 -3,942,515.70 5 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 1,083,492.95 17,430,665.63 102,671,637.08 553,073.82 5,329,455.27 127,068,324.75 6 Accumulated depreciation 7 at 1 Jan 0.00 -13,156,663.18 -78,447,990.22 -467,177.61 0.00 -92,071,831.01 Accumulated depreciation 8 relating to decreases and transfers 25,844.40 2,449,194.62 2,475,039.02 9 Depreciation and impairments during the 10 financial year -109,776.05 -351,731.82 -6,611,898.84 -14,844.82 -7,088,251.53 Accumulated depreciation 11 at 31 Dec -109,776.05 -13,482,550.60 -82,610,694.44 -482,022.43 0.00 -96,685,043.52 12 Net book value at 31 Dec 973,716.90 3,948,115.03 20,060,942.64 71,051.39 5,329,455.27 30,383,281.23 13 14 Prepayments Other property, and non-current 15 Land and Buildings and Machinery and plant and assets under 2015 water areas constructions equipment equipment construction Total 16 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 1,179,973.51 17,051,549.47 91,824,049.57 567,573.82 5,122,363.77 115,745,510.14 17 Additions 6,652.37 5,917,852.48 5,001,901.24 10,926,406.09 18 Decreases -4,491.32 -1,841.67 -1,145,032.09 -14,500.00 -1,165,865.08 Transfers 51,152.35 2,337,761.89 -2,388,914.24 0.00 19 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 1,175,482.19 17,107,512.52 98,934,631.85 553,073.82 7,735,350.77 125,506,051.15 20 Accumulated depreciation 21 at 1 Jan 0.00 -12,812,088.63 -73,336,030.88 -462,724.45 0.00 -86,610,843.96 Accumulated depreciation 22 relating to decreases and transfers 1,841.67 1,121,013.84 14,500.00 1,137,355.51 Depreciation and impairments during the financial year -346,416.22 -6,232,973.18 -18,953.16 -6,598,342.56 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec 0.00 -13,156,663.18 -78,447,990.22 -467,177.61 0.00 -92,071,831.01 Net book value at 31 Dec 1,175,482.19 3,950,849.34 20,486,641.63 85,896.21 7,735,350.77 33,434,220.14 76 2016 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 12. INVESTMENTS Note Shares in Other shares and 2016 subsidiaries holdings Total 1 Net book value at 1 Jan 2,083,703,472.85 148,222,158.17 2,231,925,631.02 2 Additions 19,906,487.93 19,906,487.93 Decreases and transfers -67,332.36 -29,647,610.34 -29,714,942.70 3 Net book value at 31 Dec 2,103,542,628.42 118,574,547.83 2,222,117,176.25 4 Shares in Other shares and 5 2015 subsidiaries holdings Total 6 Net book value at 1 Jan 1,570,433,661.40 144,105,359.93 1,714,539,021.33 7 Additions 534,837,144.91 4,224,953.64 539,062,098.55 Decreases and transfers -4,987,478.58 -4,987,478.58 8 Impairments -16,579,854.88 -108,155.40 -16,688,010.28 9 Net book value at 31 Dec 2,083,703,472.85 148,222,158.17 2,231,925,631.02 10 11 12 13. INVENTORIES 13 2016 2015 14 15 Raw materials and supplies 21,580,105.35 23,270,745.27 Finished goods 57,372,095.55 54,616,801.52 16 Prepayments 4,393,117.25 7,502,514.53 17 Total 83,345,318.15 85,390,061.32 18 19 20 21 22 2016 77 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 14. RECEIVABLES 2016 2015 1 Non-current receivables Interest-bearing non-current receivables 2 Loan receivables 3 From the Group companies 302,197,671.84 254,707,458.08 Total interest-bearing non-current receivables 302,197,671.84 254,707,458.08 4 5 Interest-free non-current receivables Deferred taxes 8,624,902.31 11,602,579.58 6 Total interest-free non-current receivables 8,624,902.31 11,602,579.58 7 Total non-current receivables 310,822,574.15 266,310,037.66 8 9 Current receivables Interest-bearing current receivables 10 From the Group companies 77,669,312.79 69,631,225.71 11 Total interest-bearing current receivables 77,669,312.79 69,631,225.71 12 Interest-free current receivables Advances paid 13 To the Group companies 18,836,395.50 18,836,395.50 14 Total 18,836,395.50 18,836,395.50 Trade receivables 15 From the Group companies 27,183,225.37 53,656,850.36 16 From others 127,246,884.44 133,153,754.73 Total 154,430,109.81 186,810,605.09 17 Accrued income 18 From the Group companies 4,828,844.62 6,324,773.43 From others 24,100,931.78 21,691,409.18 19 Total 28,929,776.40 28,016,182.61 20 Other short-term interest-free receivables From the Group companies 525,573.92 266,006.46 21 From others 10,209,802.99 13,462,146.30 Total 10,735,376.91 13,728,152.76 22 Total interest-free current receivables 212,931,658.62 247,391,335.96 Total current receivables 290,600,971.41 317,022,561.67 Total receivables 601,423,545.56 583,332,599.33 2016 2015 Accrued income Interests 7,597,612.88 6,779,178.07 Taxes 2,318,381.95 16,780.32 Exchange differences 10,891,391.47 7,082,391.10 The Group contributions 0.00 2,850,000.00 Other 8,122,390.10 11,287,833.12 Total 28,929,776.40 28,016,182.61 78 2016 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 15. MONEY-MARKET INVESTMENTS Note 2016 2015 Money-market investments 1 Book value 70,719,098.15 30,394,906.22 2 Fair value 70,719,098.15 30,394,906.22 Difference 0.00 0.00 3 Money-market investments include company's short-term investments. 4 5 16. EQUITY 6 7 2016 2015 8 Restricted equity 9 Share capital at 1 Jan 221,761,727.69 221,761,727.69 Share capital at 31 Dec 221,761,727.69 221,761,727.69 10 11 Share premium account at Jan 1 257,877,731.94 257,877,731.94 Share premium account at 31 Dec 257,877,731.94 257,877,731.94 12 13 Fair value reserve at 1 Jan -4,657,093.00 -2,963,940.82 Fair value reserve at 31 Dec 2,717,240.52 -4,657,093.00 14 15 Total restricted equity at 31 Dec 482,356,700.15 474,982,366.63 16 Unrestricted equity reserve 17 Unrestricted equity reserve at 1 Jan 199,963,876.20 199,963,876.20 Unrestricted equity reserve at 31 Dec 199,963,876.20 199,963,876.20 18 Retained earnings at 1 Jan 1) 484,949,441.70 400,262,709.85 19 Net profit for the period 215,781,981.48 165,155,958.26 20 Dividends paid -80,748,892.00 -80,587,227.16 Share-based incentive plan 21 Shares given 2,103,046.81 118,000.75 22 Retained earnings and net profit for the period ending at 31 Dec 622,085,577.99 484,949,441.70 Total unrestricted equity at 31 Dec 822,049,454.19 684,913,317.90 Total equity at 31 Dec 1,304,406,154.34 1,159,895,684.53 Total distributable funds at 31 Dec 822,049,454.19 684,913,317.90 1) The company owns 2.975.327 treasury shares, the acquisition value of which totals EUR 20.028.053.10. Change in treasury shares EUR Number of shares Acquisition value / number at Jan 1, 2016 22,082,955.54 3,280,602 Change -2,054,902.44 -305,275 Acquisition value / number at Dec 31, 2016 20,028,053.10 2,975,327 2016 79 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 17. ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS 2016 2015 1 Appropriations Appropriations in the property, plant and equipment by asset classes are as follows 2 Buildings and constructions 821,792.60 961,942.89 3 Machinery and equipment 2,707,221.32 3,691,091.79 Other property, plant and equipment 23,048.75 32,895.90 4 Intangible rights 495,672.44 510,165.92 5 Other intangible assets 2,853,963.77 4,400,019.77 Total 6,901,698.88 9,596,116.27 6 7 Change in appropriations Appropriations at 1 Jan 9,596,116.27 8,981,935.22 8 Change in untaxed reserves in income statement -2,694,417.39 614,181.05 9 Appropriations at 31 Dec 6,901,698.88 9,596,116.27 10 On December 31, 2016, deferred tax liabilities on accumulated appropriations were EUR 1.4 million (1.9). 11 12 18. OBLIGATORY PROVISIONS 13 2016 2015 14 Non-current provisions 15 16 Pension provisions 6,062,164.00 6,223,992.00 17 Other obligatory provisions 18 Environmental provisions 10,227,914.39 10,032,827.51 Restructuring provisions 3,515,000.00 654,761.20 19 Total other obligatory provisions 13,742,914.39 10,687,588.71 20 Total non-current provisions 19,805,078.39 16,911,580.71 21 Current provisions 22 Other obligatory provisions Personnel related provisions 694,011.93 1,018,072.95 Restructuring provisions 1,015,491.05 1,554,752.00 Total current provisions 1,709,502.98 2,572,824.95 Total provisions 21,514,581.37 19,484,405.66 Change in obligatory provisions Obligatory provisions at 1 Jan 19,484,405.66 19,907,801.98 Decrease of provisions during the year -2,740,134.67 -3,634,335.32 Provisions reversed during the year -326,291.05 -599,061.00 Increase during financial year 5,096,601.43 3,810,000.00 Obligatory provisions at 31 Dec 21,514,581.37 19,484,405.66 80 2016 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 19. NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Note 2016 2015 Loans from financial institutions 237,095,621.37 229,688,199.30 1 Other non-current liabilities 373,703,339.00 371,423,368.00 2 Total 610,798,960.37 601,111,567.30 3 Long-term liabilities maturing in 4 2018 (2017) 22,295,621.37 35,524,028.48 2019 (2018) 212,179,971.00 26,610,139.60 5 2020 (2019) 204,900,000.00 209,900,000.00 6 2021 (2020) or later 171,423,368.00 329,077,399.22 Total 610,798,960.37 601,111,567.30 7 8 Liabilities maturing in 5 years or more Loans from financial institutions 0.00 157,654,031.22 9 Other non-current liabilities 171,423,368.00 171,423,368.00 Total 171,423,368.00 329,077,399.22 10 Other non-current liabilities include EUR 200 million bond, which matures on May 27, 2019 and EUR 150 million bond, which matures on May 13, 2022. 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 2016 81 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 20. CURRENT LIABILITIES 2016 2015 1 Interest-bearing current liabilities Loans from financial institutions 31,009,515.48 35,626,179.89 2 Other interest-bearing current liabilities 3 To the Group companies 959,043,155.65 1,070,240,243.20 To others 24,197,339.16 19,192,135.35 4 Total interest-bearing current liabilities 1,014,250,010.29 1,125,058,558.44 5 Interest-free current liabilities 6 Prepayments received 7 From the Group companies 0.00 136,764.13 From others 660,527.45 1,153,676.10 8 Total 660,527.45 1,290,440.23 9 Trade payables To the Group companies 42,095,195.21 60,861,950.95 10 To others 57,637,340.34 69,855,984.68 11 Total 99,732,535.55 130,717,935.63 Accrued expenses 12 To the Group companies 7,883,757.27 4,512,263.86 To others 72,550,079.73 69,706,311.25 13 Total 80,433,837.00 74,218,575.11 14 Total other interest-free liabilities 9,317,121.16 7,896,013.40 15 Total interest-free current liabilities 190,144,021.16 214,122,964.37 16 Total current liabilities 1,204,394,031.45 1,339,181,522.81 17 18 Accrued expenses Salaries 10,893,082.28 11,452,788.92 19 Interests and exchange differences 12,759,960.24 19,710,404.59 20 Other 56,780,794.48 43,055,381.60 Total 80,433,837.00 74,218,575.11 21 22 21. COLLATERAL AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2016 2015 Guarantees On behalf of the Group companies For loans 401,271,034.00 388,809,015.00 For other obligations 54,437,160.00 52,920,895.00 On behalf of others 2,686,798.00 2,558,342.00 Total 458,394,992.00 444,288,252.00 Leasing liabilities Maturity within one year 4,968,769.00 4,699,217.00 Maturity after one year 17,907,785.00 17,215,651.00 Total 22,876,554.00 21,914,868.00 Environmental risks and liabilities are disclosed in Note 30 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 82 2016 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 22. SHARES AND HOLDINGS OWNED BY KEMIRA OYJ Note Group Kemira Oyj Shares in subsidiaries holding % holding % 1 AS Kemivesi 100.00 100.00 2 Kemira Argentina S.A. 100.00 15.80 Kemira Cell Sp. z.o.o. 55.00 55.00 3 Kemira Chemicals (Nanjing) Co.,Ltd. 100.00 100.00 Kemira Chemicals (Shanghai) Co.,Ltd. 100.00 100.00 4 Kemira Chemicals (UK) Ltd. 100.00 100.00 5 Kemira Chemicals (Yanzhou) Co.,Ltd. 100.00 100.00 Kemira Chemicals Brasil Ltda 100.00 99.87 6 Kemira Chemicals Canada Inc. 100.00 100.00 7 Kemira Chemicals Korea Corporation 100.00 100.00 Kemira Chemie Ges.mbH 100.00 100.00 8 Kemira Chile Comercial Limitada 100.00 99.00 9 Kemira Europe Oy 100.00 100.00 Kemira Germany GmbH 100.00 100.00 10 Kemira GrowHow A / S 100.00 100.00 11 Kemira Hong Kong Company Limited 100.00 100.00 Kemira KTM d.o.o. 100.00 100.00 12 Kemira Nederland Holding B.V. 100.00 100.00 Kemira Operon Oy 100.00 100.00 13 Kemira Świecie Sp. z o.o. 100.00 100.00 14 Kemira Water Danmark A / S 100.00 100.00 Kemira Water Solutions Brasil 100.00 100.00 15 PT Kemira Indonesia 100.00 74.80 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 2016 83 Shares and Shareholders SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS SHARES AND SHARE CAPITAL The company’s Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting that a per-share dividend of EUR On December 31, 2016 Kemira Oyj’s share capital 0.53 (0.53) totaling EUR 81 million (81) be paid for the amounted to EUR 221.8 million and the number of shares financial year 2016. The Annual General Meeting will be was 155,342,557. Each share entitles to one vote at the held on March 24, 2017. The dividend ex-date is March 27, general meeting. Kemira Oyj’s shares are registered in the 2017, dividend record date March 28, 2017, and payment book-entry system maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. date April 11, 2017. In 2016, a dividend of EUR 0.53 per share was paid for the financial year that ended December 31, 2015. The SHAREHOLDERS dividend record date was March 23, 2016, and the payment (EUR 81 million in total) date April 6, 2016. At the end of 2016, Kemira Oyj had 32,622 registered shareholders (32,601). Foreign shareholding of Kemira Oyj shares increased 17% during the year and was 25.1% of the BOARD AUTHORIZATIONS shares (21.4%), including nominee-registered holdings. Households owned 16% of the shares (16.1%). At year-end, The Annual General Meeting on March 21, 2016 authorized Kemira held 2,975,327 treasury shares (3,280,602), reprethe Board of Directors to decide upon repurchase of a senting 1.9% (2.1%) of all company shares. A list of Kemira’s maximum of 4,800,000 company's own shares (“Share largest shareholders is updated monthly and can be found repurchases authorization”). Shares will be repurchased by on the company website at www.kemira.com/investors. using unrestricted equity either through a tender offer with equal terms to all shareholders at a price determined by the Board of Directors or otherwise than in proportion to the LISTING AND TRADING existing shareholdings of the company’s shareholders in public trading on the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd (the “Helsinki Kemira Oyj’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. The Stock Exchange”) at the market price quoted at the time of trading code for the shares is KEMIRA and the ISIN code is the repurchase. The price paid for the shares repurchased FI0009004824. through a tender offer under the authorization shall be Kemira Oyj’s share closed at EUR 12.13 at the Nasdaq based on the market price of the company’s shares in public Helsinki at the end of 2016 (10.88). The share price trading. The minimum price to be paid would be the lowest increased 11% during the year while Helsinki Cap index market price of the share quoted in public trading during increased 8%. STOXX Chemicals (Europe), chemical sector the authorization period and the maximum price the highest benchmark index for Kemira increased 5% in 2016 (2%). market price quoted during the authorization period. Shares registered a high of EUR 12.55 (12.27) and a low of Shares shall be acquired and paid for in accordance EUR 8.92 (9.14). The average share price of Kemira was EUR with the Rules of the Helsinki Stock Exchange and Euro10.96 (10.86). clear Finland Ltd. Shares may be repurchased to be used in Kemira’s market capitalization, excluding treasury implementing or financing mergers and acquisitions, shares, was EUR 1,848 million at the end of the year 2016 developing the company’s capital structure, improving the (1,654). liquidity of the company’s shares or to be used for the In 2016, Kemira Oyj’s share trading volume on Nasdaq payment of the annual fee payable to the members of the Helsinki was 65 million (75) shares. Share turnover value Board of Directors or implementing the company’s sharedecreased 14% and was EUR 702.7 million (814.7). The based incentive plans. In order to realize the aforemenaverage daily trading volume was 256,233 (298,313) shares. tioned purposes, the shares acquired may be retained, In addition to Nasdaq Helsinki, Kemira shares are transferred further or cancelled by the company. The Board traded on several alternative market places or multilateral of Directors will decide upon other terms related to share trading facilities (MTF), for example at BATS, Chi-X and repurchases. The share repurchase authorization is valid Turquoise. The total value of Kemira Oyj’s share trading in until the end of the next Annual General Meeting. The Board 2016 was EUR 95 million (112), of which 32% (33%) was had not exercised its authorization by December 31, 2016. executed on other trading facilities than on Nasdaq The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide to Helsinki. Source: Kemira.com. issue a maximum of 15,600,000 new shares and / or Up-to-date information on Kemira’s share price is transfer a maximum of 7,800,000 company's own shares available on the company’s website at www.kemira.com/ held by the company (“Share issue authorization”). The new investors. shares may be issued and the company’s own shares held by the company may be transferred either for consideration or without consideration. The new shares may be issued DIVIDEND POLICY AND DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION and the company's own shares held by the company may be transferred to the company’s shareholders in proportion Kemira’s dividend policy aims to pay a stable and competito their current shareholdings in the company, or by tive dividend. displaying the shareholders’ pre-emption right, through a 84 2016 Shares and Shareholders directed share issue, if the company has a weighty finanMANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDING cial reason to do so, such as financing or implementing mergers and acquisitions, developing the capital structure The members of the Board of Directors as well as the of the company, improving the liquidity of the company’s President and CEO and his Deputy held 458,133 (406,691) shares or if this is justified for the payment of the annual Kemira Oyj shares on December 31, 2016, or 0.29% (0.26%) fee payable to the members of the Board of Directors or of all outstanding shares and voting rights (including implementing the company’s share-based incentive plans. treasury shares and shares held by the related parties and The directed share issue may be carried out without controlled corporations). Jari Rosendal, President and CEO, consideration only in connection with the implementation held 40,000 shares on December 31, 2016. Board members of the company’s share-based incentive plan. The subare not covered by the share-based incentive plan. scription price of new shares shall be recorded to the Members of the Management Board, excluding the Presiinvested unrestricted equity reserves. The consideration dent and CEO and his Deputy, held a total of 106,355 payable for company's own shares shall be recorded to the shares on December 31, 2016 (32,089), representing 0.07% invested unrestricted equity reserves. The Board of (0.02%) of all outstanding shares and voting rights (includDirectors will decide upon other terms related to the share ing treasury shares and shares held by the related parties issues. The share issue authorization is valid until May 31, and controlled corporations). Up-to-date information 2017. The authorization from the AGM 2016 has been used regarding the shareholdings of the Board of Directors and in connection with the remuneration of Board of Directors Management is available on Kemira’s website at and the authorization from the AGM 2015 has been used www.kemira.com/investors. for the remuneration of key employees in 2016. LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS DECEMBER 31, 2016 % of shares and Shareholder Number of shares votes 1 Oras Invest Ltd 28,278,217 18.2 2 Solidium Oy 25,896,087 16.7 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8,164,836 5.3 4 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 4,800,451 3.1 5 Nordea funds 1,783,056 1.2 6 Skagen Vekst Verdipapierfond 1,350,000 0.9 7 The State Pension Fund 1,190,000 0.8 8 Veritas Pension Insurance Company Ltd. 1,131,112 0.7 9 Etola Erkki Olavi 1,000,000 0.6 10 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 609,331 0.4 11 Aktia Funds 470,000 0.3 12 LähiTapiola Funds 465,829 0.3 13 Alfred Berg Funds 455,325 0.3 14 Pohjola Funds Managment 428,594 0.3 15 OP-Henkivakuutus Ltd. 413,689 0.3 Kemira Oyj 2,975,327 1.9 Nominee registered and foreign shareholders 38,946,080 25.1 Others, total 36,984,623 23.6 Total 155,342,557 100.0 SHAREHOLDING BY NUMBER OF SHARES HELD DECEMBER 31, 2016 Number of % of shares and Number of shares shareholders % of shareholders Shares total votes 1 –100 7,598 23.3 463,931 0.3 101 – 500 13,998 42.9 3,819,909 2.5 501 –1,000 5,135 15.8 3,923,221 2.5 1,001– 5,000 4,934 15.1 10,247,683 6.6 5,001 –10,000 500 1.5 3,612,609 2.3 10,001 – 50,000 350 1.1 6,643,382 4.3 50,001 –100,000 43 0.1 3,291,981 2.1 100,001 – 500,000 49 0.2 10,583,444 6.8 500,001 –1,000,000 3 0.0 2,118,813 1.4 1,000,001 – 12 0.0 110,637,584 71.2 Total 32,622 100.0 155,342,557 100.0 2016 85 Board Proposal for Profit Distribution KEMIRA OYJ’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF DISTRIBUTABLE FUNDS AND SIGNING OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW On December 31, 2016, Kemira Oyj’s distributable funds are On the date of this proposal for the distribution of EUR 822,049,454 of which net profit for the period amounts profits, a total of 152,367,230 shares are held outside the to EUR 215,781,981. company, the total dividends paid would amount to EUR The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General 80,754,632. The distributable funds of EUR 741,294,822 to Meeting to be held on March 24, 2017 that a dividend of be retained as equity. EUR 0.53 per share will be distributed. No dividend will be There have been no material changes in the company’s paid on own shares held by the company as treasury financial position since December 31, 2016. The liquidity of shares on the dividend record date. the company remains good, and the proposed dividend payment does not risk the solvency of the company. Helsinki, February 7, 2017 Jari Paasikivi Kerttu Tuomas Chairman Vice Chairman Winnie Fok Juha Laaksonen Wolfgang Büchele Timo Lappalainen Kaisa Hietala Jari Rosendal CEO 86 2016 Auditor’s Report AUDITOR’S REPORT (Translation from the Finnish original) TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL BASIS FOR OPINION MEETING OF KEMIRA OYJ We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice are further described in the Auditor’s REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF FINANCIAL Responsibilities for the Audit of Financial Statements STATEMENTS section of our report. We are independent of the parent company and of the OPINION group companies in accordance with the ethical requireWe have audited the financial statements of Kemira Oyj ments that are applicable in Finland and are relevant to our (business identity code 0109823-0) for the year ended 31 audit, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibiliDecember, 2016. The financial statements comprise the ties in accordance with these requirements. consolidated statement of financial position, income We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, opinion. including a summary of significant accounting policies, as well as the parent company’s balance sheet, income KEY AUDIT MATTERS statement, cash flow statement and notes to the financial Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professtatements. sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These IN OUR OPINION matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the • the consolidated financial statements give a true and financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion fair view of the group’s financial performance and thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these financial position in accordance with International matters. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Goodwill impairment testing Consolidated financial statements as of 31.12.2016 includes As part of our audit procedures we have evaluated the estimates over the Goodwill amounting to EUR 522,4 million. future recoverable cash flows and we have compared, that the forecasts Management has conducted goodwill impairment testing and as used in the impairment tests are based on approved long term forecast a result of the testing conducted, Kemira has not accounted for any and budgets approved. impairments over goodwill as at 31.12.2016. We have assessed the impairment testing by: Goodwill impairment testing requires substantial management • evaluating the key assumptions applied per segment applied. judgment over the recoverable amounts over: • assessing the growth estimates and comparing them to historical • estimations over the projected future cash flow. performance. • long term growth assumptions. • comparing applied discount rates to independent third party sources. • applied discount rate. • assessing the sensitivity analysis over the long term assumptions and discount rate. For further details over the goodwill impairment testing conducted by the management is presented in the note 11 within the We have assessed the sensitivity analysis, which is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements. consolidated financial statements note 11. We have also assessed those key assumptions, where material change could lead to substantial impairment of goodwill. 2016 87 Auditor’s Report KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Fair value measurement of available for sale financial instruments Consolidated financial statements as of 31.12.2016 includes Our audit procedures included assessment of the underlying electricity Available for Sale Financial assets amounting to EUR 202,5 price and production cost assumptions used in the management’s million. This item consist mainly from shares of Pohjolan Voima Oy valuation model against the available third party information. (PVO) and Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO) share which fair value is We have assessed the processes relating to fair value measurement approximately EUR 201,0 million. and reasonableness of the valuation model applied by the management. Fair value measurement of these shares require substantial We have assessed the assumptions that management has applied management judgment relating to the following estimates: in the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) rate which is used as • future electricity market prices in Finland. discount rate. • future electricity production costs. We have compared the assumptions and estimates applied by • applied discount rate. management to other available third party estimates and assessed the reasonableness of these assumptions. For further details over the fair value measurement conducted by the management is presented in the notes 14 and 15 within the consolidated financial statements. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER FOR THE FINANCIAL practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain STATEMENTS professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or statements that give a true and fair view in accordance error, design and perform audit procedures responsive with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is adopted by the EU, and of financial statements that give a sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulaopinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatetions governing the preparation of financial statements in ment resulting from fraud is higher than for one Finland an comply with statutory requirements. The Board resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are also forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or responsible for such internal control as they determine is the override of internal control. necessary to enable the preparation of financial state• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to ments that are free from material misstatement, whether the audit in order to design audit procedures that are due to fraud or error. appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the In preparing the financial statements, the Board of purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible of the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. for assessing the parent company’s and the group’s ability • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies to continue as going concern, disclosing, as applicable, used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates matters relating to going concern and using the going and related disclosures made by management. concern basis of accounting. The financial statements are • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of prepared using the going concern basis of accounting Directors’ and the Chief Executive Officer use of the unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent going concern basis of accounting and based on the company or the group or cease operations, or there is no audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncerrealistic alternative but to do so. tainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE AUDIT OF group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we FINANCIAL STATEMENTS conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance on required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the whether the financial statements as a whole are free from related disclosures in the financial statements or, if material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance future events or conditions may cause the company to with good auditing practice will always detect a material cease to continue as a going concern. misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or content of the financial statements, including the in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to infludisclosures, and whether the financial statements ence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of represent the underlying transactions and events so the financial statements. that the financial statements give a true and fair view. 88 2016 Auditor’s Report • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding OTHER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the OTHER INFORMATION consolidated financial statements. We are responsible The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are for the direction, supervision and performance of the responsible for the other information. The other informagroup audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit tion comprises information included in the Board of opinion. Directors Review and in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our report thereon. We communicate with those charged with governance We obtained the Board of Directors Review prior to the date regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and of the auditor’s report, and the Annual Report is expected timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including to be made available to us after the date of the auditor’s any significant deficiencies in internal control that we report. identify during our audit. We also provide those charged Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover with governance with a statement that we have complied the other information. with relevant ethical requirements regarding independIn connection with our audit of the financial stateence, and communicate with them all relationships and ments, our responsibility is to read the other information other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the our independence, and where applicable, related safeother information is materially inconsistent with the guards. financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the From the matters communicated with those charged audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. with governance, we determine those matters that were of With respect to Board of Directors Review, our responsibilmost significance in the audit of the financial statements ity also includes considering whether the Board of Direcof the current period and are therefore the key audit tors Review has been prepared in accordance with the matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report applicable laws and regulations. unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about In our opinion, the information in the Board of Directors the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we Review is consistent with the information in the informadetermine that a matter should not be communicated in tion in the financial statements and the Board of Directors our report because the adverse consequences of doing so Review has been prepared in accordance with the applicawould reasonably be expected to outweigh the public ble laws and regulations. interest benefits of such communication. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement in of the information included in the Board of Directors Review, we are required to report this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. OTHER OPINIONS We support that the financial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the profit shown on the balance sheet is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Board of Directors of the parent company and the Chief Executive Officer should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Helsinki, 7 February 2017 Deloitte & Touche Oy Audit Firm Jukka Vattulainen Authorised Public Accountant (KHT) 2016 89 Quarterly Earnings Performance (EUR million) QUARTERLY EARNINGS PERFORMANCE (The figures are unaudited) 2016 2015 1–3 4–6 7–9 10–12 Total 1–3 4–6 7–9 10–12 Total Revenue Pulp & Paper 362.4 361.1 365.2 368.6 1,457.3 314.6 351.3 379.1 372.3 1,417.3 Oil & Mining 75.5 72.7 79.6 81.7 309.5 93.9 89.7 90.1 76.4 350.1 Municipal & Industrial 144.8 154.0 151.5 146.2 596.5 144.5 153.8 155.9 151.5 605.7 Total 582.7 587.8 596.3 596.5 2,363.3 553.0 594.8 625.1 600.2 2,373.1 EBITDA 1) Pulp & Paper 46.7 46.2 50.5 44.4 187.8 35.0 34.4 44.9 42.8 157.1 Oil & Mining 6.1 -0.4 3.6 2.3 11.6 11.0 9.5 7.0 3.3 30.8 Municipal & Industrial 18.3 23.5 24.2 18.8 84.8 19.2 22.2 22.9 11.6 75.9 Total 71.1 69.3 78.3 65.5 284.2 65.2 66.1 74.8 57.7 263.8 EBIT 1) Pulp & Paper 27.0 25.8 28.5 20.3 101.6 19.6 16.2 25.2 21.6 82.6 Oil & Mining 0.4 -7.4 -2.3 -2.8 -12.1 5.7 2.4 1.3 -6.5 2.9 Municipal & Industrial 11.8 16.5 17.5 11.7 57.5 12.5 15.7 16.2 2.7 47.1 Total 39.2 34.9 43.7 29.2 147.0 37.8 34.3 42.7 17.8 132.6 Finance costs, net -6.0 -0.3 -6.9 -5.9 -19.1 -7.5 -9.3 -8.2 -5.8 -30.8 Share of the results of associates 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.3 Profit before tax 33.3 34.6 36.8 23.3 128.0 30.5 25.1 34.5 12.0 102.1 Income taxes -7.6 -7.9 -9.5 -5.1 -30.1 -4.1 -5.8 -7.4 -7.6 -24.9 Net profit for the period 25.7 26.7 27.3 18.2 97.9 26.4 19.3 27.1 4.4 77.2 Net profit attributable to Equity owners of the parent 24.5 25.0 25.6 16.7 91.8 25.0 17.6 25.5 2.9 71.0 Non-controlling interests 1.2 1.7 1.7 1.5 6.1 1.4 1.7 1.6 1.5 6.2 Net profit for the period 25.7 26.7 27.3 18.2 97.9 26.4 19.3 27.1 4.4 77.2 Earning per share, basic and diluted, EUR 0.16 0.17 0.16 0.11 0.60 0.16 0.12 0.17 0.02 0.47 NET WORKING CAPITAL Inventories 215.4 214.0 214.0 216.9 216.9 220.0 236.0 226.1 207.0 207.0 Trade receivables and other receivables 404.6 404.9 398.9 386.1 386.1 365.4 404.8 399.8 389.8 389.8 Excluding financing items in other receivables -26.0 -19.3 -15.3 -16.8 -16.8 -10.0 -7.9 -12.5 -13.1 -13.1 Trade payables and other liabilities 462.3 359.1 377.5 405.2 405.2 348.8 354.0 365.8 388.7 388.7 Excluding financing items in other liabilities -119.1 -20.4 -16.7 -13.6 -13.6 -22.5 -16.7 -23.3 -22.8 -22.8 Net working capital 250.8 260.9 236.8 194.6 194.6 249.1 295.6 270.9 217.8 217.8 INTEREST-BEARING NET LIABILITIES Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 666.6 676.8 656.8 649.5 649.5 462.4 692.4 680.3 670.9 670.9 Current interest-bearing liabilities 133.7 167.4 170.7 157.9 157.9 224.9 128.3 134.8 122.7 122.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 800.3 844.2 827.5 807.4 807.4 687.3 820.7 815.1 793.6 793.6 Cash and cash equivalents 156.2 154.3 161.9 173.4 173.4 125.5 109.3 125.2 151.5 151.5 Interest-bearing net liabilities 644.1 689.9 665.6 634.0 634.0 561.8 711.4 689.9 642.1 642.1 1) Includes items affecting comparability. 90 2016 Quarterly Earnings Performance (EUR million) 2016 2015 1–3 4–6 7–9 10–12 Total 1–3 4–6 7–9 10–12 Total ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY IN EBITDA AND EBIT Operative EBITDA Pulp & Paper 47.9 49.3 51.8 46.3 195.3 36.1 41.3 46.7 46.9 171.0 Oil & Mining 6.5 4.5 4.2 3.2 18.4 11.1 11.4 7.4 3.6 33.5 Municipal & Industrial 18.4 25.1 24.8 20.5 88.8 19.2 22.0 24.1 17.5 82.8 Total 72.8 78.9 80.8 70.0 302.5 66.4 74.7 78.2 68.0 287.3 Total Items affecting comparability -1.7 -9.6 -2.5 -4.5 -18.3 -1.2 -8.6 -3.4 -10.3 -23.5 EBITDA 71.1 69.3 78.3 65.5 284.2 65.2 66.1 74.8 57.7 263.8 Operative EBIT Pulp & Paper 28.2 28.9 30.0 24.5 111.6 20.7 23.2 27.0 25.9 96.8 Oil & Mining 0.8 -1.1 -1.6 -1.9 -3.8 5.8 6.0 1.7 -2.4 11.1 Municipal & Industrial 11.9 18.8 18.1 13.5 62.3 12.6 15.6 17.4 9.6 55.2 Total 40.9 46.6 46.5 36.1 170.1 39.1 44.8 46.1 33.1 163.1 Total Items affecting comparability -1.7 -11.7 -2.8 -6.9 -23.1 -1.3 -10.5 -3.4 -15.3 -30.5 EBIT 39.2 34.9 43.7 29.2 147.0 37.8 34.3 42.7 17.8 132.6 Operative EBITDA 72.8 78.9 80.8 70.0 302.5 66.4 74.7 78.2 68.0 287.3 Restructuring and streamlining programs 0.0 -4.3 -0.4 -1.1 -5.8 0.0 -0.7 -1.6 -3.4 -5.7 Transaction and integration expenses in acquisition -1.4 -1.9 -0.5 -1.2 -5.0 -1.0 -6.9 -1.1 -4.0 -13.0 Divestment of businesses and other disposals 0.3 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.5 0.1 -0.2 -0.2 -1.5 -1.8 Other items -0.6 -3.4 -1.8 -2.2 -8.0 -0.3 -0.8 -0.5 -1.4 -3.0 Total Items affecting comparability -1.7 -9.6 -2.5 -4.5 -18.3 -1.2 -8.6 -3.4 -10.3 -23.5 EBITDA 71.1 69.3 78.3 65.5 284.2 65.2 66.1 74.8 57.7 263.8 Operative EBIT 40.9 46.6 46.5 36.1 170.1 39.1 44.8 46.1 33.1 163.1 Total Items affecting comparability in EBITDA -1.7 -9.6 -2.5 -4.5 -18.3 -1.2 -8.6 -3.4 -10.3 -23.5 Items affecting comparability in depreciation, amortization and impairments 0.0 -2.1 -0.3 -2.4 -4.8 -0.1 -1.9 0.0 -5.0 -7.0 Operating profit (EBIT) 39.2 34.9 43.7 29.2 147.0 37.8 34.3 42.7 17.8 132.6 ROCE AND OPERATIVE ROCE Operative EBIT 40.9 46.6 46.5 36.1 170.1 39.1 44.8 46.1 33.1 163.1 Operating profit (EBIT) 39.2 34.9 43.7 29.2 147.0 37.8 34.3 42.7 17.8 132.6 Share of profit or loss of associates 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.3 Capital Employed 1,697.8 1,709.6 1,711.5 1,718.2 1,718.2 1,466.2 1,534.0 1,601.6 1,659.5 1,659.5 Operative ROCE, % 9.7 9.8 9.8 9.9 9.9 11.0 11.0 10.6 9.8 9.8 ROCE, % 7.9 7.9 7.9 8.6 8.6 9.3 10.5 10.0 8.0 8.0 2016 91 Information for Investors INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS FINANCIAL REPORTS IN 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Kemira will publish three interim reports in 2017. Kemira's Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday, March 24, 2017 at 10.00 a.m. in Marina Congress Center, April 26, 2017: Interim report for January–March Katajanokanlaituri 6, Helsinki, Finland. A shareholder who July 21, 2017: Interim report for January–June on the record date of the Annual General Meeting, March October 25, 2017: Interim report for January–September 14, 2017, is registered in the company’s shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd, is entitled to The interim reports and related presentation material are attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting. available on Kemira’s website at www.kemira.com/ Registration to the Annual General Meeting begins on investors. Furthermore, Kemira's press releases, Annual February 23, 2017 and registration instructions will be Reports (incl. Corporate Responsibility Report and Finanpublished on that day as a stock exchange release and at cial Statements) and other investor information are also Kemira’s web site at www.kemira.com > Investors > available on the website. On the site, visitors can register to Corporate Governance > Annual General Meeting > Annual receive press releases by e-mail and order the company’s General Meeting 2017. Financial Statements. Financial Statements can also be Kemira will release a stock exchange release on the ordered from Kemira Oyj, Group Communications, Annual General Meeting’s decisions immediately after the tel. +358 10 8611. meeting. INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION The purpose of Kemira's investor communications is to For dividend proposal, please see page 86. provide capital markets with open and reliable information on the company and its operating environment in order to give market participants a factual overview of Kemira as an CHANGE OF ADDRESS investment. Kemira's investor communications aims to ensure that Kemira’s shareholders are kindly requested to report any everyone operating in the markets has equal access to change of address to the bank or brokerage firm in which sufficient and correct information concerning the company, they have their book-entry account. This will also update and to ensure that information is disclosed consistently information in registers, maintained by Euroclear Finland and without delay. Ltd, which Kemira uses to send mail to its shareholders. If Kemira Oyj is domiciled in Helsinki, Finland, and the the book-entry account is held by Finnish Central Securicompany's shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. Kemira ties Depository Ltd, changes of address should be reported Oyj complies with the laws of Finland and the regulations there directly. of Nasdaq Helsinki and Finland's Financial Supervisory Authority. INVESTOR RELATIONS SILENT PERIOD Olli Turunen, Vice President, Investor Relations tel. +358 10 862 1255 Kemira observes a silent period before issuing financial e-mail: olli.turunen@kemira.com statements or interim reports. During the period, Kemira’s representatives do not comment on Kemira’s financial statements or interim reports for the ongoing reporting BASIC SHARE INFORMATION period the specific silent period relates to. The schedule for the silent period and publication of financial information Listed on: Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd and closed periods is displayed on Kemira’s website under Trading code: KEMIRA Investors > Investor Calendar. Kemira’s Investor Relation ISIN code: FI0009004824 function is responsible for keeping the calendar up-toIndustry group: Materials date. Industry: Chemicals Number of shares on December 31, 2016: 155,342,557 Listing date: November 10, 1994 92 2016 SHARE PRICE 2012–2016 DIVIDEND PER SHARE AND DIVIDEND YIELD 1) EUR 210 0.6 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 190 0.5 170 0.4 150 4.5 4.4 5.4 4.9 4.4 0.3 130 0.2 110 90 0.1 70 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Kemira Oyj ■ Dividend per share 1) ■ EURO STOXX Chemicals Dividend yield, % 1) ■ OMX Helsinki 1) The dividend for 2016 is the Board of Directors' proposal to the Annual General Meeting. MONTHLY TRADING VOLUME ON NASDAQ HELSINKI 2012–2016 EARNINGS PER SHARE Shares EUR 14,000,000 1.0 12,000,000 0.8 0.59 0.60 10,000,000 0.6 0.47 8,000,000 0.4 6,000,000 0.2 0.12 4,000,000 0 2,000,000 -0.2 -0.21 0 -0.4 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 MARKET VALUE AND EQUITY 2012–2016 OWNERSHIP DECEMBER 31, 2016 EUR million 2,500 2,000 25% 1,500 40% 4% 1,000 16% 500 4% 11% 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Corporations ■ Financial and insurance corporations ■ Market value ■ General goverment ■ Total equity ■ Households ■ Non-profit institutions ■ Non-Finnish shareholders incl nominee register Kemira Oyj Porkkalankatu 3 P.O. Box 330 FI-00101 Helsinki Finland Tel. +358 10 8611 Fax +358 10 862 1119 www.kemira.com Kemira is a global chemicals company serving customers in water intensive industries. We provide expertise, application know-how and chemicals that improve our customers‘ product quality, process and resource efficiency. Our focus is on pulp & paper, oil & gas, mining and water treatment. Kemira shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd.
