REGISTRATION DOCUMENT including the annual financial report 2015 CONTENTS 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 249 Key figures 2 4.1 CSR organizational overview 250 Group history 4 4.2 Europcar, promoting sustainable, shared mobility 251 4.3 Europcar, renting cars responsibly 255 4.4 Concordance tables 265 01 4.5 Methodology note 267 4.6 ILO report 270 OVERVIEW OF EUROPCAR AND ITS ACTIVITIES 11 1.1 History and development 12 1.2 Group profile 14 05 1.3 Presentation of the Group’s market CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 273 and competitive environment 16 5.1 Management and supervisory bodies 274 1.4 Competitive strengths 20 5.2 Role and activities of the supervisory board 293 1.5 Strategy 26 5.3 Compensation and other benefits in kind 1.6 Description of the Group’s business 29 received by corporate officers 310 1.7 Organization chart 58 5.4 Summary statement of transactions 1.8 Research and development, patents and licenses 62 in Company securities by corporate officers 319 1.9 Property, plant and equipment 63 06 02 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY RISK FACTORS 65 AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 321 2.1 Risks relating to the Group’s industry and markets 66 6.1 Information on the Company 322 2.2 Risks related to the business 69 6.2 Constitution and bylaws 322 2.3 Risks relating to the Group’s financial structure 6.3 Share capital 334 and profile 79 6.4 Main shareholders of the company 340 2.4 Regulatory and legal risks 85 6.5 Profit-sharing agreements and incentive plans 2.5 Regulatory, legal and arbitration proceedings 92 – employee shareholders 344 2.6 Financial risks 94 6.6 Disclosures pursuant to Article L. 225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code 345 2.7 Insurance and risk management 94 6.7 Dividend distribution policy 345 03 07 ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 99 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 349 7.1 Persons responsible 3.1 Analysis of Group results 100 for the Registration Document 350 3.2 Liquidity and capital resources 120 7.2 Related party transactions 351 3.3 Investments 145 7.3 Significant contracts 353 3.4 Consolidated financial statements 7.4 Statutory Auditors’ Special Report on related and Statutory Auditors’ report 147 party agreements and regulated commitments 354 3.5 Analysis of the results of Europcar Groupe S.A. 218 7.5 Statutory Auditors’ fees 357 3.6 Company financial statements 7.6 Publicly available documents 357 and Statutory Auditors’ report 221 7.7 Concordance tables 3.7 Outlook for financial year 2016 245 (European regulation no. 809/2004, 3.8 Information on mid-term trends and objectives 247 annual financial report, Management Board 3.9 Significant change in the financial report, concordance tables of social, or business position 248 societal and environmental data) 358 3.10 Comments from the Supervisory Board 7.8 Glossary 364 regarding the Management Board’s report and the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 248 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 4.1 CSR ORGANIZATIONAL OVERVIEW 250 4.4 CONCORDANCE TABLES 265 4.1.1 CSR history and current developments 250 4.1.2 CSR Reporting Organization and Governance 251 4.5 METHODOLOGY NOTE 267 4.2 EUROPCAR, PROMOTING 4.6 ILO REPORT 270 SUSTAINABLE, SHARED MOBILITY 251 1. Attestation regarding the completeness 4.2.1 Mobility for all our customers and employees 251 of CSR Information 270 4.2.2 Our ﬂeet, driving sustainable, shared mobility 253 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information 271 4.3 EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY 255 4.3.1 A business generating local jobs 255 4.3.2 An environmental footprint distributed through the value chain 261 4.3.3 Local suppliers and sub-contractors 263 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 249 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION CSR ORGANIZATIONAL OVERVIEW 4.1 CSR ORGANIZATIONAL OVERVIEW 4.1.1 CSR history and current developments Europcar’s CSR initiative was strengthened in 2005, when the non-ﬁnancial information publication obligations of its historical Group adhered to the principles of the United Nations Global reference shareholder, Eurazeo. Compact. From 2005 through 2012, the Group participated Following the Company’s IPO, in 2015 this organization was in the Learner Platform, before achieving the Global Compact reviewed with the appointment of a Group CSR Director tasked Active Level in 2013. This means that the Group is required to with deﬁning and overseeing the Group’s CSR strategy. This comply with the United Nations Global Compact’s disclosure appointment enables the Group to meet its obligation to collect and monitoring requirements, including a statement by the and publish social and environmental information in accordance Company’s CEO expressing the renewal of its support for the with Article 225 of the Act No. 2010-788, of July 12, 2010, the Global Compact, a description of the practical steps taken so-called “Grenelle 2 Law” (CSR Reporting). by the business and a measurement of the results achieved. 2015 was thus marked by an effort to consolidate the Group’s The Group also launched measures to increase environmental CSR governance, the establishment of a new reference awareness at all of its entities and to establish a dedicated framework for CSR Reporting to ensure both compliance and environmental management team. This voluntary internal operational supervision, and the launch of actions in tune with initiative led to the drafting of an environmental charter, certiﬁed the Group’s renewed commitment to CSR. in June 2008 by Bureau Veritas, an independent external organization. The charter has been updated several times since In 2015, Europcar carried out work to integrate a CSR and is audited by Bureau Veritas each year. The environmental dimension into its purchasing policy. The new policy, which charter sets forth the Group’s objectives in eight areas: is being deployed in the Corporate Countries in the ﬁrst half water, energy, air pollution, biodiversity, waste management, of 2016, is based on the results of a comprehensive CSR environmental awareness and responsibility, risk prevention questionnaire evaluating suppliers on their level of maturity and and management, and the principles and rules applicable to their CSR risks, and provides for the addition of CSR clauses environmental matters. to calls for tender and supplier contracts. In compliance with one of the charter’s requirement, in 2009, The Group also bolstered its identiﬁcation and fraud prevention all of the Group’s European operating subsidiaries obtained processes across all its activities. The ﬁrst stage of the Fraud ISO 14001 (environmental management) certification. The Prevention Plan, covering station fraud, was implemented in certiﬁcation is audited by Bureau Veritas each year and must the ﬁrst half of 2015 (1). be renewed every three years. The Group’s CSR initiative has In 2016, the Group plans to establish a more detailed CSR been built on the foundations laid in 2009, in particular with the strategy with action plans for the coming years. appointment of persons tasked with managing and monitoring environmental questions for each of the Group’s operating subsidiaries and at the Europcar International level. In 2012, the Group published its ﬁrst social and environmental report based on the ISO 26000 recommendations, and put into a place an internal organization to ensure it could meet the (1) See the paragraph “Suppliers and local sub-contractors” at the end of this section. 250 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE, SHARED MOBILITY 4.1.2 CSR Reporting Organization and Governance To meet the requirements of the Grenelle 2 Law and to speed a implementation of an internal control process to ensure up the deﬁnition of a value-generating CSR strategy, in 2015 the consistency in CSR Reporting; Group consolidated its CSR governance structure as follows: a appointment of an Independent Third Party Organization to a appointment of a Group CSR Director in charge of CSR verify the existence and accuracy of CSR Reporting data in Reporting and of deﬁning and implementing the Group’s accordance with Decree No. 2012-557 of April 24, 2012. CSR strategy; Dedicated software (SI-RSE) was used to collect non-ﬁnancial a appointment of CSR representatives in the Holdings and information, with speciﬁc settings to incorporate data from Corporate Countries, responsible for forwarding non-ﬁnancial across the Group. The CSR Reporting scope covers the information and implementation of the Group CSR strategy; Holdings (Europcar International, Europcar Groupe and the a identification of around one hundred CSR Reporting Shared Service Center) and Corporate Countries. 04 contributors across the Group’s subsidiaries and For more information on the scope and structure of nondepartments; ﬁnancial information collection and consolidation, please refer to the methodology note at the end of this Chapter. a drafting of a CSR Reporting protocol detailing all the relevant procedures and methodologies, distributed to all CSR Reporting contributors; 4.2 EUROPCAR, PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE, SHARED MOBILITY 4.2.1 Mobility for all our customers and employees Innovation that supports shared, sustainable dialog, transparency and security systems concerning its mobility stakeholders, i.e. its “customers”, placing them at the heart of its action. Europcar wishes to contribute to society by playing a role in developing tomorrow’s mobility for all. With over 65 years of experience on the vehicle rental market, the Group is 4.2.1.1 Quality and accessible offering continuously driving innovation to provide its customers with With a view to continuously improving the quality of its services, an increasingly extensive shared mobility offering. the Group tracks customer satisfaction levels based on its In particular, with Europcar Lab the Group develops new Promoter Score program in place since 2011. The program mobility offers and solutions which (1), focusing on usage rather gathers feedback from customers as to whether they would than possession, make it possible to reduce the environmental recommend Europcar to friends and family. The Group’s footprint of society as a whole. continued efforts to improve the customer experience were reﬂected by a net increase in the Group’s Promoter Score from In addition to the mobility offering per se and its availability to 2011 to 2014: the widest clientele possible, the Group has also established 2011 2012 2013 2014 Promoter Score 58% 66% 72% 79% (1) See Europcar Lab / Mobility solutions and Europcar® Service Offerings in Section 1.6.2 “Europcar Lab/Mobility solutions”. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 251 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE, SHARED MOBILITY Since 2015, Europcar has changed its measurement of Online assessment and feedback services to improve customer satisfaction with the adoption of a more potent transparency, customer interaction and satisfaction levels have performance indicator, the “Net Promoter Score” (NPS), i.e. the also been available since 2014. difference between the brand’s “promoters” and “detractors.” Finally, the Group has a process monitoring tool to manage Detailed analysis of the NPS has identiﬁed ways to improve the customer requests and complaints and ensure they are score and monitor the performance of actions undertaken. The dealt with in the best possible way. This system centralizes method used to gather customer reviews has been harmonized, all requests, classified by type (duplicate invoice, invoice and the Group’s NPS score was 44.9 in 2015. explanation, payment means and so on), and monitors the Part of station employees’ variable compensation (as well as time required to process and solve customer requests. that of all Group employees) is linked to their Net Promoter In addition to offering a wide range of quality services, the Score. Station scores are reviewed weekly and action plans Group also aims to ensure its offers are accessible to the widest implemented based on such reviews. possible customer base, by providing modern mobility solutions to all users, including those with a speciﬁc budget or other requirements. Affected customers Details of offering In France the Student Box offer gives students discounted rates for both utility and leisure vehicle rentals, Students to facilitate their frequent relocations, in spite of the young drivers’ surcharge. In Italy, the “Family” offering was expanded with the addition of a customized package (insurance, child car seat, Families additional driver, GPS, etc.). In Spain, a dedicated package has been developed for female customers that includes the guaranteed availability Women of the reserved model and comprehensive protection, as well as the gift of an accessory. Bicycle/motorbike riders The Group now rents motorbikes and bicycles at many of its stations. In Germany and in the United Kingdom, vehicles ﬁtted with hand controls are available for people with reduced People with reduced mobility mobility. Since 2013, the Group offers low-cost rental in most European countries under its attractively priced InterRent Cost-sensitive customers brand. This offer allows customers on a low budget to ﬁnd suitable mobility solutions. The Group also pursues sustainable mobility solutions internally, In practical terms, one of the key measures implemented in particular with the launch of its subsidiary Ubeeqo’s services involved amending the general rental terms and conditions at its head ofﬁce. This initiative, known as Bettercar Sharing, to ensure greater transparency and understanding by the provides employees without a company vehicle with courtesy customers. cars they can use for personal and work-related trips at the The insurance protection offering, a vital part of Europcar’s Europcar International and Europcar France head ofﬁces. customer safety policy, has also been reviewed, and made Europcar International and Europcar France has also clearer and more transparent, as well as more consistent implemented a solution in partnership with Wayz-Up, allowing between countries where the Group is active. It is now based their employees at the Voisins-le-Bretonneux sites near Paris on three simple packs (basic, medium and premium), offering to car pool for their commute. increasing protection levels and decreasing damage waiver amounts. 4.2.1.2 Transparent offering Lastly, of particular relevance among these transparency boosting measures is an email sent to customers summarizing In 2015, the Group committed to a set of 18 measures the key elements of their rental, as well as the applicable terms promoting the transparency of offers made to customers in and conditions after the booking is completed (which are also the European Union. The Group wishes to promote these available at the stations and on the website) or the inclusion of measures, as it believes they can contribute to improving its the young driver surcharge at the start of the booking process, customer relations, from the booking stage to when the vehicle where applicable. is returned by the customer to the station and including the sale of insurance protection. 252 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE, SHARED MOBILITY 4.2.1.3 Customer safety and protection The insurance offering, revamped in 2015 to provide greater clarity, covers all the risks customers may be exposed to and Customer safety and protection are a Group priority: from offers protection up to full liability waivers. All damage types vehicle inspection and maintenance in accordance with written can be covered: from liability insurance, which is included and procedures displayed at the preparation sites, the availability mandatory with every rental, to theft, and from vehicle damage of customized insurance protection to meet a range of diverse (including glass breakage or punctured tires) to the loss of customer needs, to customer support as part of roadside personal effects in the event of an accident. assistance. All vehicles rented by Europcar are covered by MTPL (Motor In addition to the main guarantee of safety, namely the average Third Party Liability) policies issued by recognized insurance age of ﬂeet vehicles (8.9 months across the entire ﬂeet of the companies in their markets. Group), Europcar arranges for each vehicle to be inspected and cleaned at the end of every rental and to be maintained Twenty-four hour roadside assistance is available to all according to the manufacturer’s recommendations. Mandatory customers in the event of any issues during the rental period checks before each departure include dashboard lights (battery, (accidents, technical faults, lost keys, etc.). The best solution to temperature, brake pads, etc.), levels (gasoline, tire pressure, ensure the customer’s mobility will be identiﬁed based on the 04 oil, wiper ﬂuid, etc.), rearview mirrors, lights, tires, windshield issue. In general, response time, included in the service level and body. guaranteed by the assistance providers, is around one hour. Europcar must follow the maintenance speciﬁcations of the Lastly, the Group offers its customers the option to access a respective manufacturers in order to maintain the warranty and complete range of equipment that provides a greater level of repurchase commitment on the vehicle. Europcar operates safety: winter tires or chains, driver assistance systems (parking vehicle maintenance centers at certain rental stations in the assist, cruise control, etc.). Corporate Countries, providing routine maintenance and light repair facilities for its ﬂeet. Major repairs, in particular if related to collision damage, are generally performed by independent contractors. 4.2.2 Our ﬂeet, driving sustainable, shared mobility Fleet description and utilization sourcing. In 2015, approximately 30% of its ﬂeet was acquired from Volkswagen, 14% from General Motors, 13% from Fiat, The functionality economy, which prioritizes the sale of an 11% from Renault, 9% from Peugeot Citroen, 7% from Daimler, integrated product-service solution (usage) rather than an 6% from Hyundai, 3% from Ford and the remaining 7% from individual product or service, is at the core of Europcar’s model. other manufacturers. Thanks to the ﬂeet made available by the Group, customers can focus on using rather than owning a vehicle. This approach is Across all cars resold in 2015, the Group sold approximately increasingly in line with the expectations of society. This shared 7 billion mobility kilometers to its customers, of which mobility model is beneﬁcial to the environment, in particular approximately 60% on Mini, Economy or Compact models. because it leads to far higher utilization rates compared with the use of individual cars. Fleet delivery The beneﬁts of the Group’s vehicle purchasing model are even greater, given the average holding period of 8.9 months across To meet customer demand and ensure there are always the Group at December 31, 2015, which translates into a very vehicles available at the right time and in the right place, the young ﬂeet and consequently the Group’s ability to offer its Group must manage its ﬂeet across the different rental stations. customers vehicles that meet the most recent standards in Whenever possible, the Group chooses pooled delivery means terms of average consumption, greenhouse gas emissions (trucks, trains or even ships) and also relies on drivers who and safety. move the cars from one station to the other or to the customer’s home, where this service is available. The Group optimizes During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Group took these trips in both ﬁnancial and distance traveled terms, thereby delivery of approximately 278,500 vehicles and operated an minimizing their environmental footprint. In 2015, the distance average rental fleet of 205,353 leisure and utility vehicles. traveled for vehicle delivery was just 2% of the distance traveled To meet its customers’ needs, the Group has diversiﬁed its by rented vehicles. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 253 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE, SHARED MOBILITY Lastly, in certain countries, the Group offers a “€1 return” option while customers can travel paying only for fuel. In 2015, either enabling customers to bring back one-way rentals to the point directly or through external partners in charge of distributing of origin. This enables vehicle retrieval free of charge and avoids offers, over 1.6 million kilometers were travelled under the “€1 the CO2 emissions associated with alternative vehicle recovery, return” option across the Group. CAR DELIVERY ASSISTED BY BICYCLE In 2015, in eight locations across the country, Germany pilot-tested delivery or collection of reserved vehicles to the home by an employee using a bicycle. The concept is very simple: It enables a reserved vehicle to be delivered or picked up using only one employee, who drives the reserved vehicle on delivery or return, and travels in the opposite direction using a folding bicycle stored in the vehicle’s trunk. The environmental gain is signiﬁcant since it saves one round trip by car for each delivery or collection (i.e. the accompanying car driven by a second driver in order to bring or take back the employee driving the delivered car). This is an example of value-creating environmental innovation since it also enables the Group to beneﬁt from the related ﬁnancial savings. Overview of greenhouse gas emissions ofﬁces and stations within the CSR Reporting scope (electricity and gas). Over and above the internal consumption of fuel, The table below shows the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions the Group’s internal energy consumption is thus relatively for scopes 1 and 2, corresponding to direct (scope 1) and low, mostly originating in the remaining part of the value chain indirect (scope 2) emissions from energy consumption. (scope 3): outsourcing of car washing and repairs, upstream The table shows the emissions from internal fuel consumption carbon associated with car manufacturing, customers’ across the Group as well as energy consumption of head combustion of oil and fuel, ﬂeet delivery, etc. In t CO2 eq. 2015 Coverage rate Scope 1 20,105 ✔ 95 – 99% Scope 2 6,359 ✔ 95% Total scope 1 & 2 26,464 ✔ 95 – 99% Thanks to its purchasing policy, based on a short holding vehicles for their use, all other things being equal, the mobility period, the Group can always rely on the best possible ﬂeet, services it provides translate into a way to reduce emissions. as it purchases its vehicles new. Consequently, the average Given that the average age of vehicles in France is 8/9 years, emissions in grams of CO2 per kilometer ✔ (manufacturers’ according to the CCFA survey (1), we can estimate that the ﬁgures) of the Group’s ﬂeet have been decreasing year after average emissions of current vehicles is in line with those of year: new cars sold in 2007, i.e. approximately 150g CO2/km. 160 In view of the number of kilometers traveled on the Group’s 151 European ﬂeet (excluding commercial vehicles), we estimate 146 the emissions avoided on this scope at roughly 176,000 tCO2e. 140 This means that emissions avoided on this scope represent 140 134 roughly 20% of the emissions generated by customers on all 127 7 billion kilometers of mobility provided by the Group. 124 120 119 118 In addition to the intrinsic beneﬁts of the Group’s model (young ﬂeet and high utilization rates), Europcar spares no effort to 100 reduce its own and its customers’ carbon footprint: Nov-08 Sept-09 Aug-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Nov-13 Dec-14 Jan-16 a a website (2) dedicated to environmental awareness has been developed and shows customers the processes put This chart shows the emissions of the European scope in place by the Group to reduce its footprint, as well as its excluding commercial vehicles. “green” vehicle offering (hybrid or electric), accessible to all Although it is true that Europcar carries a part of the customers, and lastly offers nine “green tips” for reducing environmental footprint of its customers by holding a ﬂeet of fuel consumption on the road; (1) Committee of French Automotive Manufacturers: The French Automotive Industry, Analysis and Statistics 2015. (2) http://microsite.europcar.com/green/ 254 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY a every year the Group increases the proportion of hybrid and from the ﬁrst screen and are also included in the customer’s electric vehicles in its ﬂeet, based on customer demand and invoice; market maturity in terms of both offering and infrastructure. a to help its Corporate customers prepare their carbon In 2015, Europcar hybrid and electric vehicles traveled over emissions statements, the Group has been providing the 11 million kilometers; “Carbon Emissions Report” since 2011. At the customer’s a to raise awareness and to help customers choose, the CO2 request, Europcar provides information for calculating and emissions of each vehicle (manufacturers’ ﬁgures) are posted documenting the carbon emissions generated by vehicles on the Group’s website during the booking process starting rented by their employees. WEFOREST Since 2013, the Group has also taken measures to limit the effects of climate change and increase biodiversity through its collaboration with WeForest. 04 Through this program, the Group gives its customers the chance to offset a portion of their CO2 emissions when they rent Europcar vehicles. WeForest is an international non-proﬁt organization working against climate change. The funds collected are used to ﬁnance reforestation and sustainable energy projects. The inclusion of such a carbon-offset program when reserving a vehicle promotes the involvement and awareness of Europcar’s customers in climate change issues. But Europcar also works alongside its customers, since on each reservation, the customer is asked to give 50 euro cents, which are then matched by the Group, enabling 2 trees to be planted in the Burkina Faso desert. 4.3 EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY 4.3.1 A business generating local jobs 4.3.1.1 Group operations Within the Subsidiaries in other countries, with 1034 rental stations owned by the Group and approximately 900 stations Europcar offers vehicles to its Leisure and Corporate customers operated by agents and franchisees that had revenue in 2015, from stations located at airports, railway terminals, hotels, the Group has operations in a diverse range of geographical resorts, office buildings, and other urban and suburban locations. The Group provides a signiﬁcant contribution to locations. local dynamics wherever it is present, be it in tourist areas Outside airports, the car rental market is very fragmented, with and resorts through its Leisure and Vacation customers, or in numerous smaller vehicle rental businesses, each with limited business and industrial areas through its Business customers. market share and geographical distribution. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 255 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY In particular, with two-thirds of the staff working in the station networks and just one-third in the head ofﬁces, the Group is an important local employer: HEAD OFFICE/RENTAL STATION WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION** (1) Workforce at 12/31 2015 Headcount Head ofﬁces 2,466 38% Headcount Stations 4,094 62% The staff of the Holdings and the Shared Services Center have 4.3.1.2 A dynamic approach to workforce been included in the Head ofﬁces headcount. management The business is, by nature, very seasonal, with strong ﬂuctuations during the year but also during the week. Consequently, the Group must manage its workforce dynamically to meet the needs of its Leisure and Corporate customers. The geographical breakdown of the workforce is a reﬂection of the Group’s international operations and its business levels within each country. WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION BY COUNTRY** Workforce at 12/31 2015 TOTAL 6,560 ✔ 100% Europcar International and Europcar Group 316 5% Shared Services Center 280 4% Germany 1,562 24% France 1,227 19% United Kingdom 1,156 17% Spain 642 10% Australia 473 7% Italy 438 7% Portugal 292 4% Belgium 116 2% New Zealand 58 1% WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION BY AGE* Workforce at 12/31 2015 Under 25 282 5% From 25 year to 35 years 1,915 33% From 36 year to 45 years 1,931 33% From 46 year to 55 years 1,258 21% More than 55 years 497 8% Among permanent employees, approximately two-thirds of the workforce are aged between 25 and 45 years, 60% have more than 5 years’ service and over 40% more than 10 years’ service. (1) Throughout this section, an asterisk (*) signiﬁes that the data relate to permanent headcount only; two asterisks (**) signify that the data relate to permanent and ﬁxed-term headcount 256 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION MANAGERS/NON-MANAGERS* Workforce at 12/31 2015 Managers 1,512 26% Non-managers 4,371 74% Managers, deﬁned as having responsibility for a team, a budget or a function, account for approximately one-quarter of the Group’s workforce, and are divided between headquarters in Corporate Countries and stations. HIRINGS AND DEPARTURES OVER THE YEAR** 2015 Hirings 2,048 ✔ Number of voluntary departures 893 ✔ 41% Number of departures initiated by employer 498 ✔ 23% 04 Number of departures for other reasons (contract ended, retirement) 784 ✔ 36% WORKING TIME ORGANIZATION even daily peaks, the Group uses different types of contracts depending on the country and in compliance with local To meet the mobility needs of its customer base, the Company regulations, from close-ended contracts of a few weeks or requires a dynamic approach to its workforce, with the ability months (for ﬁxed-term staff) to weekly or hourly based contracts to adjust its Human Resources to the level of business. Due (including seasonal staff). to the seasonal nature of the business, with yearly, weekly and The Group thus adjusts its staff to the business, as shown by the graphs below: DIFFERENCE FROM THE ANNUAL AVERAGE OF THE FLEET DIFFERENCE FROM THE ANNUAL AVERAGE FIXED-TERM AND SEASONAL HEADCOUNT 60,000 292 40,000 37,114 250 114 20,000 4,546 50 0 -20,000 -8,995 -150 -96 -40,000 -32,666 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 -350 -309 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 There is a signiﬁcant correlation between the ﬂuctuation in ORGANIZATION OF WORKING TIME temporary and seasonal staff and the changes in the average 2015 fleet over the year. Mostly located in the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain, seasonal staff accounted for approximately Proportion of permanent part-time employees* 10.3% 2,000 full-time equivalent employees over the year. Overtime (all types of contracts) (in hours) 301,218 Hours of atypical work (all types of contracts) 242,446 Absenteeism** 4.6% EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 257 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY To meet its customers’ demands, Europcar stations need to be multiple and complex national labor laws. With the exception of open outside normal business hours, principally in the evening, very few individual proceedings, the Group has not received any Sundays, and holidays, depending on the country. In all the type of sanction for failure to comply with the labor regulations countries, the Group complies with the applicable regulations of the countries in which it operates. As regulations in the under collective bargaining agreements and employees working countries where the Group operates are in line with and often outside standard hours are paid a premium. stricter than ILO (International Labor Organization) directives, the Group is compliant with said directives. 4.3.1.3 Labor policy The Group promotes a labor policy built on social dialog, diversity and gender equality, and on training and health/safety With operations in seven European countries as well as in policies leading to low absenteeism and accident rates, as well Australia and New Zealand, the Group needs to comply with as a balanced gender ratio at Group level. YOU MAKE THE DIFFERENCE As part of the “You make the difference” program, whose objective is strengthen the corporate culture within the Group, in June 2015 the Company launched a ﬁrst ﬂagship initiative around its values: the Europcar 2015 Trophies, organized in all the subsidiaries. These trophies reward the attitudes and behaviors the Group wishes to promote. Each quarter, different attitudes related to Group values are highlighted. For 2015, Europcar chose to concentrate on three of its values: commitment, ﬂexibility and trust, and to promote the following attitudes: cooperation, open-mindedness and passion, pro-activeness, inﬂuence, simplicity and leadership, etc., LABOR RELATIONS, COLLECTIVE BARGAINING In Australia and New Zealand, the Group has been proactive in AGREEMENTS, CORPORATE CLIMATE establishing constructive labor relations through team meetings and monthly telephone conferences, yearly roadshows, ORGANIZATION OF LABOR RELATIONS regular bulletins and emails sent to the employees, and a The Group abides by local regulations in all countries with dedicated email address enabling employees to contact senior regulated labor relations. Accordingly, in France, Germany, management directly. Spain, Italy and Belgium, labor relations are built around works OVERVIEW OF THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS councils which discuss any topics as required, in relation to employment, equal opportunities and equality, the Company’s Within the Group, 52 collective bargaining agreements are ﬁnancial position and so on, depending on the country. active as of December 31, 2015, including 8 signed during the year. These collective bargaining agreements cover different subjects such as working time organization, pensions or compensation. SOCIAL CLIMATE AND EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION The Group has implemented and deployed in all of its Corporate Countries and holding companies an internal tool to assess the social climate. Employees are asked to express their level of satisfaction on a scale from 1 to 10 as part of a quarterly survey. The results are then consolidated for each country and analyzed by the Human Resources teams, including regional teams, before being passed on to the General Manager of each subsidiary. Depending on the detailed results and the associated comments that employees are also free to give, action plans are implemented if needed. The satisfaction rate averages 7 out of 10. 258 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY HEALTH/SAFETY The activities of Group employees do not cause any occupational illness in any of the Corporate Countries or Holding Within the Group, four collective agreements relating to health Companies. In particular, employees of Europcar France are or safety were in force at December 31, 2015, one of which not exposed to levels exceeding the limits set by legislation was signed during the year. for any of the factors deemed by legislation to be particularly In the majority of the countries where the Group is located, harsh (cold, noise, posture etc.) However, Europcar France has signing health and safety agreements with staff representation nonetheless recognized that certain employees, in particular bodies is not mandatory. The Group has, however, implemented the vehicle preparation agents or customer service agents, various measures to reduce the frequency and severity of could be engaged in tasks deemed “harsh” and a collective workplace accidents, which are thus low. bargaining agreement covering this has been agreed with the social partners (unions and management) to mitigate its effects. In its French subsidiaries, regulation largely covers these measures, but in addition to the CHSCT meetings and keeping records of the Risk Assessment Documents, in 2015 for COMPENSATION POLICY AND SOCIAL SECURITY example, Europcar France introduced an internal report that managers must complete after each accident and on which they Over 2015, all benefits and salaries together amount to approximately €266 million. 04 can note any preventative measures to be implemented so that the accident does not occur again. In the stations, employees The compensation policy is, depending on the country, based are required to wear Individual Protection Equipment. on pay scales in accordance with the collective bargaining agreements, either internal pay scales set by the Company or In certain countries like Germany and Portugal, site safety on local labor market conditions. management is operated in partnership with independent certiﬁcation bodies, enabling the Group to ensure risks are Europcar complies with local regulations which, in certain identiﬁed and procedures implemented to minimize them. countries, regulate compensation for working hours outside of the traditional work week (evenings, weekends and holidays) In other countries such as Spain and the United Kingdom, the by offering higher pay to those employees affected. Group relies on benchmarks and standards such as OHSAS 18001 (1) or COSHH (2) in order to comply with regulations and Many employees benefit from a variable component of deﬁne its Health and Safety policy. Italy renewed its OHSAS compensation linked to monthly or annual performance 18001 certiﬁcation in 2015. objectives depending on the type of position. At the Group level, more than 20% of the total payroll is variable and based In Australia and New Zealand, various policies and procedures on performance objectives. are developed to identify station risks. In addition to the monthly inspection of sites with car washing equipment, and Beneﬁts ** 2015 an inspection every hour months for other sites, all employees Number of employees covered by optional health are trained in health and safety practices when they join the insurance 2,542 Company and annually thereafter. All job descriptions deﬁne Number of employees covered by optional death the health and safety responsibilities related to it. and disability insurance 5,064 In Belgium, a Hygiene, Health and Safety and Working Number of employees covered by optional retirement Conditions Committee meets every month to review potential insurance 3,215 risk areas and identify improvements to be made. A large number of employees receive company benefits In the Holding Companies, evacuation drills and staff ﬁrst aid (health, provident or retirement) providing higher beneﬁt levels training are carried out regularly. than the legal minimums. The granting of this complementary Workplace accidents 2015 coverage depends on criteria speciﬁc to each country, chief among which are age, seniority within the Company, the type Number of workplace accidents 160 of contract (permanent, ﬁxed-term and status as a manager Number of days lost time due to workplace accidents 3,771 or member of the Executive Committee). In certain countries, Number of fatal workplace accidents in the year 0 these corporate employee beneﬁts enable the Company to Workplace accident frequency rate 12.9 build employee loyalty by offering more favorable terms than those in the local market. Workplace accident severity rate 0.3 In all other cases, Europcar complies with its obligations from internal agreements or collective bargaining agreements. (1) OHSAS is an international standard for managing workplace health and safety. (2) COSHH is a set of UK regulations requiring employers to control substances that are hazardous to health. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 259 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY TRAINING AND ANNUAL REVIEWS maximizes opportunities and minimizes inefﬁciency. Training plans are deﬁned on the basis of achieving a balance between Staff training is a key factor in the Group’s success. Whether it the economic and performance requirements of the Group, be at the rental agency counter, where the training of teams in individual aspirations and local regulations. service quality and sales has a direct impact on the brand image and Group proﬁts, or behind the scenes, where the safety of Training plans are also deﬁned based on individual interviews employees and the quality and speed of vehicle preparation is held with the majority of employees, whether or not they are a direct result of training policies, the Group provides training managers, and working in agencies or in head ofﬁces. The plans in all countries training tailored to each type of job or procedures for annual reviews are formalized and based on employee. performance criteria and objectives, as well as on the areas of commitment and personal development. Employees in head offices also benefit from training plans tailored to their activities. In the area of youth employment and training, in some countries the Group takes on apprentices, some of whom are then In 2015, 86,530 hours of training were provided. recruited permanently. There were approximately 164 full time The training objectives are to improve the value of each team, equivalent employees taken on as apprentices across the of each team member and to create an environment that Group in 2015, representing almost 3% of headcount. OUR NEIGHBORHOODS HAVE TALENT Europcar International signed a partnership agreement with the “Nos quartiers ont des talents” (Our neighborhoods have talent) organization in July 2015. This organization puts together companies and young graduates with four or ﬁve years of post-high school education, who come from disadvantaged backgrounds and cannot ﬁnd employment. The organization looks for male and female sponsors within these companies who will be able to help these young people to better understand the working world by coaching them (reviewing CVs, interview practice, following their progress, etc.). Europcar International signed up to this community initiative and as of December 31, 2015 had 16 sponsorships with young people in the Ile-de-France region. ANTI-DISCRIMINATION with one disabled person recruited in 2015 and 21 in the headcount as of December 31, 2015, which represents By drawing on its geographic presence in very different regions, approximately 5% of the permanent and ﬁxed-term headcount. the Group is a signiﬁcant local employer relying on the diversity of the regions in which it operates in order to recruit. In France, despite efforts undertaken to adapt jobs and work with ESAT whenever possible, the Company has not reached The Group furthermore complies in a proactive way with the minimum regulatory requirement of 6% of its headcount different local regulations designed to ﬁght discrimination. The being people with a disability. Group communicates internally pursuant to legal requirements and trains employees in compliance with non-discrimination principles, both in the recruitment process, where the Human MALE/FEMALE EQUALITY** Resources departments are trained in non-discrimination, and The anti-discrimination policy extends to parity between the in the corporate environment. The majority of countries have sexes and the Group is exemplary in this regard. All antiformal and internally communicated anti-discrimination policies. discrimination policies of Group subsidiaries state that gender In particular, concerning the employment of people with cannot be a selection or remuneration criterion and that is disabilities, no discrimination is practiced in hiring, and in certain reﬂected in the ﬁgures showing a balance between male and countries where it is allowed, positive discrimination is even female headcount across the Group. practiced where possible. The Group also ensures that both genders are represented In Italy, regulations require recruitment of a minimum percentage within its management and governance, with a female presence of people with disabilities. The Group complies with this law, in its Management Board and Supervisory Board of 25% and 30% respectively at year-end 2015. 260 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY 2015 Men/Women Breakdown Headcount at 12/31 % Men 3,297 ✔ 50.3% Women 3,263 ✔ 49.7% Men on the Management Board 3✔ 75% Women on the Management Board 1✔ 25% Men on the Supervisory Board 7✔ 70% Women on the Supervisory Board 3✔ 30% WOMEN AT EUROPCAR 04 Europcar puts parity and fairness at the heart of its corporate culture. With the development of the “Europcar Women” community and forums, the Group hopes to support the contribution of women internally at all levels and give them the resources to succeed: training, career development, succession planning, and personnel development. In this context, the Group actively supports the PWN (Professional Women’s Network), which is a network of European women whose mission is to support women in their promotion to strategic positions. 4.3.2 An environmental footprint distributed through the value chain As a provider of mobility, the Group holds and maintains on water, energy, air discharges, biodiversity, waste management, behalf of its customers a substantial fleet of vehicles. The environmental responsibility and risk management. Group’s model is virtuous from the environmental point of view, Furthermore, the European Corporate Countries have all since it enables Group customers to travel with new and wellbeen ISO 14001 certified since 2009. This environmental maintained vehicles, thus minimizing consumption, emissions management system has enabled the Group to identify and accident risks. environmental risk areas and implement tailored procedures The environmental footprint of the business is thus shared and training. between the customer as user (usage of the vehicle and fuel The amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental consumption), the Group (administration and delivery of the risks as of December 31, 2015 is thus insigniﬁcant (around ﬂeet) and its sub-contractors (vehicle washing, preparation and €50,000) and no environmental penalties were imposed on repair). the Group in 2015. As the Group does not carry out any industrial activities, the The Group’s “green” initiatives resulted in its winning the World risks of environmental pollution are thus limited and essentially Travel Awards trophy for World’s Leading Green Transport only concern the washing areas and the fuel storage tanks. Solution Company 2015, its sixth consecutive win. Organization of the Group and training related Environmental footprint to the environment Although the Group carries and shares a part of the Since 2007, Europcar has had a pro-active environmental environmental footprint of its customers by holding a fleet charter, approved by Bureau Veritas, deployed across the of vehicles for their use, it also externalizes a signiﬁcant part Group and addressing the management of the following issues: of its environmental footprint, essentially comprised of the maintenance, washing and delivery of its vehicle ﬂeet. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 261 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY The footprint shown below thus only shows the Group’s internal consumption: 2015 Consumption Coverage rate Water (cu.m.) 326,512 86% Electricity (MWh) 17,227 ✔ 95% Renewable energy (MWh) 5,375 ✔ 92% Natural gas (MWh) 6,384 ✔ 95% Total energy excluding fuel (MWh) 28,986 ✔ 86-95% Fuel consumed internally (liters) 7,462,453 ✔ 99% The costs related to water and energy consumption are, for a (head ofﬁces and networks) to reduce paper and ofﬁce waste number of stations, included in the premises’ rental charges, as much as possible and increase their recycling. In addition and it is difficult to obtain more detailed information. This to sorting, collecting and recycling this type of waste, the explains the fact that coverage rate of (1) these ﬁgures is not Group’s main initiative in this area is to go paperless in the 100%. billing and contract signing procedures. In 2015, more than 1,220,000 invoices were neither printed nor sent by mail to Beyond the issues of car washing discussed in the following Group customers, representing a paperless rate of 12.5% paragraph, the Group has implemented best practices as across the whole Group (Leisure and Corporate customers), quickly as possible for reducing water and energy consumption and 25% on Leisure customers alone. in its head ofﬁces and networks: timed self-closing faucets, low ﬂush toilets, lighting operated by motion detectors, replacement The classiﬁcation of waste as hazardous waste depends on of existing lighting by LED lighting, air conditioning automatically local regulations. The Group mainly produces the following shut off after 8 pm, etc. hazardous waste: computer waste and toners for the head ofﬁces, and neon lights, batteries and sludge from hydrocarbon The Group’s non-hazardous waste is mainly from office separators in the stations. The Group complies with local uses and paper. The Group considers these impacts to be regulations for waste treatment and implements treatment and non-material in relation to its activity and has therefore not recycling procedures guided by its ISO 14001 environmental implemented any strategy to collect this information. Various management system. steps have nevertheless been carried out across the Group 2015 Consolidated Group Tons data Coverage rate Quantity produced 318 87% Quantity recycled 119 93% In terms of its ground footprint, the Group has areas used ISO 14001 to reduce leakage risks. Accordingly, the tanks permanently for head ofﬁces and the network and parking are regularly monitored and a signiﬁcant number of them are lots actively managed according to the activity. The orders equipped with leak detectors, alarms and double bottoms. No of magnitude and the types of area occupied by the Group leaks were detected in 2015. (basement or on an upper level) are not such as to make ground usage a signiﬁcant issue for the Group in terms of environmental impact. Car washing The Group has 267 ✔ tanks used mainly to stock oil and In addition to the environmental and carbon footprint related fuel. The Group complies with local regulations covering the to the typical lifecycle of cars (manufacture, transport, usage, ownership and operation of reservoirs to stock oil and fuel maintenance, end of life), the Group’s main environmental and also uses procedures implemented in compliance with impact relates to the cleaning of cars, which is the source of water, energy and chemical product consumption. (1) For more information on the coverage rate, please refer to the methodology note. 262 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY In certain countries, such as Germany, the washing of cars in a washing gantry, but cleaned by hand as necessary and is almost entirely sub-contracted (outside of the station) to without water, thus saving substantial amounts of water, the extent that the Group does not have its own washing energy and chemical products on a Group scale, even if equipment. In other countries, the Group has washing facilities the number of vehicles prepared this way remains marginal; operated either by Group employees or by sub-contractors. a many stations, including the biggest in all countries, are In 2015, the Group started work to analyze the consumption equipped with a ﬁltration system (hydrocarbon separators, related to both internal and sub-contracted car washing. decanters, active charcoal ﬁlters) and used water recycling The purpose of this work is to understand and reduce the system operating in an almost closed circuit. Thanks to these impact of car washing in terms of its consumption of resources systems, between 70% and 80% of the water required for (energy, water and chemical products) and discharges into the each wash comes from the recycling circuit, depending on environment. the type of equipment, and only the remaining water required is taken from the water supply network. Nevertheless, many steps are already in use within the Group, sometimes enabling a very substantial reduction in the impacts Including hot countries and areas of water stress, there were from car washing, in terms of both water and energy resource no restrictions on water usage in 2015, and the Group did not 04 consumption, and pollution risks: incur any penalties in this regard. a when the vehicle (in general a very short-term rental) returns in an almost immaculate state on the exterior, it is not washed 4.3.3 Local suppliers and sub-contractors Breakdown between suppliers Corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy and sub-contractors in the value chain Present in Europe, Australia and New Zealand, the Group As well as being a signiﬁcant provider of local employment, makes 99% of its purchases in these geographic regions and the Group is also a purchaser, with relationships with a large has contracts with only approximately 30 suppliers in Asia number of local suppliers, often small companies. or South America, representing approximately 0.2% of the The Group measures and monitors the risk level of its suppliers Group’s purchasing volumes. depending, on the one hand, on the potential social risks (which NUMBER OF DIRECT SUPPLIERS are limited given the geographic areas in which the Group operates) and on the other hand, on the supplier’s revenue 20,000 from Europcar (dependency risk). 18,075 18,000 To further understand and manage its supply chain, and to 16,000 14,000 follow an improvement process with its suppliers, in 2015, the 12,000 Group undertook major work to formalize the way it takes into 10,000 account CSR progress and risk criteria in its purchasing policy. 8,000 From the inclusion of CSR clauses in tenders and contracts, to 6,000 a complete CSR questionnaire sent to all its existing or potential 4,000 suppliers, this new policy will be deployed in all Subsidiaries 1,459 2,000 32 19 11 in 2016. 0 0 Europe The Pacific North Asia South Africa America America With more than 19,500 suppliers, the Group has essentially two supplier types: Group suppliers (ﬂeet, insurance, bank, IT, etc.) and a very large number of local suppliers enabling each station to operate locally (repairers, transporters, recruitment agencies, etc.). EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 263 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR, RENTING CARS RESPONSIBLY Fraud prevention and ﬁght against corruption non-compliance situations and risks, as well as to present and money-laundering any corrective measures taken; (ii) ensure that all employees have received training related to the Group’s values charter, The Group’s Internal Audit Department oversees identiﬁcation conﬂicts of interest, personal data protection and competition and fraud prevention processes for all of its activities. This law over the course of the ﬁscal year; and (iii) certify, in particular, process was strengthened in 2015 by a Fraud Prevention Plan, the absence of any conﬂicts of interest and compliance with the ﬁrst part of which, covering station fraud was implemented anti-corruption rules, personal data protection, labor laws and in the ﬁrst half-year. human rights. The Group has implemented a signed reporting policy. Moreover, in the context of its compliance program (including Under this policy, the managers of the Group’s different anti-corruption, compliance with economic sanctions, antisubsidiaries sign an annual compliance letter. The purpose of fraud), the Group has recently adopted a data-processing tool the compliance letter is in particular to (i) notice and analyze allowing for the identiﬁcation of at-risk commercial partners. AUSTRALIA/NEW ZEALAND Group employees are trained in anti-corruption rules every two years as part of training related to the “Competition and Customers” act. A code of conduct governing the relationship with suppliers and specifying the required standards of integrity and conduct must be signed by all employees authorized to send purchase orders. Finally, employees must sign an annual conﬂict of interests or potential conﬂict of interests declaration. 264 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION CONCORDANCE TABLES 4.4 CONCORDANCE TABLES Section SOCIAL INFORMATION Employment Total headcount and breakdown of employees 4.3.1.2 4.3.1.3 Hirings and dismissals 4.3.1.2 Compensation and its change 4.3.1.3 Working time organization 04 Working time organization 4.3.1.2 Absenteeism 4.3.1.2 Employee Relations Organization of labor relations 4.3.1.3 Overview of the collective bargaining agreements 4.3.1.3 Health and safety Health and safety conditions at work 4.3.1.3 Summary of the agreements signed relating to health and safety at work 4.3.1.3 Workplace accidents and occupational illnesses 4.3.1.3 Training Training policies 4.3.1.3 Total number of training hours 4.3.1.3 Equal treatment Measures taken to promote equality between men and women 4.3.1.3 Measures taken to promote employment and inclusion of disabled persons 4.3.1.3 Anti-discrimination policy 4.3.1.3 Promotion and respect for the provisions of the ILO’s fundamental conventions Respect for the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 4.3.1.3 Elimination of discrimination in matters of employment and occupation 4.3.1.3 Elimination of forced or compulsory labor n/a, see note on methodology Effective abolition of child labor n/a, see note on methodology ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION General Environmental Policy Company organization to take environmental questions into account 4.1.1 4.1.2 4.3.2 Training and information regarding environmental protection 4.3.2 Resources dedicated to environmental risk and pollution prevention 4.3.2 Amount of environmental risk provisions and guarantees 4.3.2 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 265 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION CONCORDANCE TABLES Section Pollution and Waste Management Prevention, reduction or remediation measures for air, water, and soil discharges severely affecting 4.2.2 the environment 4.3.2 Measures to prevent recycle and eliminate waste 4.3.2 Taking noise pollution and any other form of pollution speciﬁc to an activity into account n/a, see note on methodology Sustainable Use of Resources Water consumption and water supply depending on local constraints 4.3.2 Consumption of raw materials and measures taken to improve the efﬁciency of their use n/a, see note on methodology Energy consumption, the measures taken to improve energy efﬁciency and use of renewable energy 4.3.2 Ground use 4.3.2 Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions 4.2.2 Adapting to the consequences of climate change n/a, see note on methodology Protection of Biodiversity Measures taken to protect and increase biodiversity n/a, see note on methodology SOCIAL INFORMATION Territorial, economic and social impacts of the Company’s activity Regarding employment and regional development 4.3.1.1 On neighboring or local populations 4.3.1.1 Relationships maintained with persons or organizations interested in the Company’s activity. Conditions for dialogue with these persons or organizations 4.2.1 Partnership or sponsorship initiatives 4.2.2 Sub-contractors and suppliers Taking account social and environmental issues in the purchasing policy 4.3.3 Importance of sub-contracting and taking into account suppliers’ and sub-contractors’ social and environmental responsibility 4.3.3 Fair trade practices Action taken to prevent corruption; 4.3.3 Measures taken to promote consumer health and safety 4.2.1.2 4.2.1.3 Other actions taken to promote human rights n/a, see note on methodology 266 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION METHODOLOGY NOTE 4.5 METHODOLOGY NOTE As a listed company and in accordance with Article 225 of Law No. 2010-788, July 12, 2010, the so-called “Grenelle 2” Law, Europcar is required to publish consolidated non-ﬁnancial data in its Registration Document. Period and Scope of CSR Reporting The CSR Reporting period is the calendar year from January 1, It does not include data from stations purchased from 04 2015 to December 31, 2015. EuropHall, or data from agency or franchised stations, except for ﬂeet information for vehicles used by agents. The scope of CSR Reporting covers the Holding Companies (ECI, ECG and the Shared Services Center) and the Corporate The published data are consolidated at Group level, apart from Countries (France, Germany, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, the data on workforce distribution by country. Portugal, Belgium, Australia and New Zealand), including InterRent stations. CSR Reporting Organization The organization used for CSR Reporting is set out in a Audit and consolidation of the data protocol showing all the procedures and methodologies of CSR Reporting. This protocol has been circulated to each CSR INTERNALLY Reporting contributor prior to the start of reporting. Data are audited at the level of each entity by the teams responsible for reporting the information and by internal audit Data collection teams. Automatic consistency checks are carried out in the CSR Reporting is organized and coordinated by the Europcar collection software, then by people in the teams in charge CSR Director, Pierre Beguerie, in collaboration with the of the analysis and consolidation of the data at Group level: CSR coordinators in the Holding Companies and Corporate comparison of the data between countries, comparison to Countries. At the level of each subsidiary, data collection is historic data, the ratio of localized checks (e.g. on the price managed by the responsible teams, and mainly concerns of resources.) Finally, a part of the data from the Corporate Human Resources, Operations, Fleet and Management Audit Countries comes from the Shared Services Center, which teams. ensures consistency of data between countries. VERIFICATION OF THE DATA BY AN INDEPENDENT Collection tool THIRD PARTY ORGANIZATION To collect and consolidate the data, and ensure the traceability PricewaterhouseCoopers, Audit (PwC), one of the Company’s of the data and processes, Europcar used the online nonStatutory Auditors, has been appointed by Europcar as the ﬁnancial information collection software, Reporting 21. This Independent Third Party Organization to verify the presence software has been deployed in all the entities covered by CSR and accuracy of the non-ﬁnancial information presented in the Reporting and has helped around 100 contributors to input the Registration Document, pursuant to the Grenelle 2 legislation information from the CSR Reporting. (see the report and the opinion on fairness in Section 4.6 “ILO report”). Europcar also voluntarily asked PwC to review certain indicators in the context of a reasonable assurance audit. The data reviewed in this context are ﬂagged by the sign: ✔. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 267 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION METHODOLOGY NOTE Choice of indicators To produce its CSR Reporting, Europcar defined a list of a the Group’s activities do not generate noise pollution or other indicators consistent with the themes identiﬁed in Article 225 speciﬁc forms of pollution other than the issues discussed of Law No. 2010-788 of July 12, 2010, the so-called Grenelle 2 in this chapter (mainly the use and maintenance of cars); Law. a the Group does not, strictly speaking, consume raw materials, This list contains quantitative and qualitative indicators, and the issues related to reducing oil and fuel consumption broken down into ﬁve major categories: Environment, Fleet, are discussed in this chapter; Social, Societal and Supply Chain. This enables not only the a The Group has not to be impacted to date by the Group’s material issues in terms of compliance and dialog with consequences of climate change in its host countries; stakeholders to be covered, but also the baseline information to be collected in order to deﬁne and steer an actionable and a the Group’s activities do not directly impact biodiversity; long-term CSR strategy. a the Group is not located in countries at risk of human rights Given the Group’s business (non-industrial), its geographic violations and complies with all local human rights legislation location (European countries, Australia and New Zealand), in the countries where it is located (elimination of forced or certain themes from the decree applying Article 225 of the compulsory labor and the effective abolition of child labor). Grenelle Law have been deemed irrelevant in relation to the Group’s activity and are not covered by the CSR Reporting indicators: a no framework has been implemented to measure and collect the amounts of non-hazardous waste (mainly paper and ofﬁce items) produced; Coverage rate Given the decentralized structure of the Group (more than 9,000 The coverage rate is calculated for all the indicators in the stations in 9 countries), data collection and standardization is social, environment and supply chain categories, starting from a complex exercise. the reference indicators: To consolidate the data and communicate unbiased a permanent and ﬁxed-term headcount as of December 31, information, the Group has introduced the concept of coverage 2015 for the social indicator; rate in its CSR Reporting. This concept enables data to be a revenue for the environment indicator; consolidated solely across the scope where they are available, indicator by indicator, and allows entities (mainly stations) to be For each indicator in these categories, the contributors provided excluded from an indicator where the data is not available or the scope actually covered by the indicator’s value, and the not homogenous with the rest of the Group. value consolidated at Group level is therefore shown with the exact consolidated coverage rate for each indicator. For the chapter as a whole, coverage in respect of social information is 100%. 268 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION METHODOLOGY NOTE Notes on methodology and main limiting factors The entities included in the CSR Reporting scope are spread a The energy and water indicators do not include consumption across nine countries with substantially different laws and for vehicle washing by external service providers. practices. The choice of indicators and their deﬁnitions are discussed Notes on the greenhouse gas emissions upstream with the different contributors from the various entities footprint to achieve indicators that are as closely tailored as possible to circumstances on the ground. For CO2 emissions, the Group’s internal consumption of energy was considered (mainly electricity and gas) and fuel (diesel and gasoline). Carbon emission factors speciﬁc to each country for Notes on the deﬁnitions of certain indicators electricity consumption were then considered, and the same for the other items. The emission factors used come from the 2014 04 a Unlike the productivity data monitored by the Group, the IEA (International Energy Agency) report on carbon emission workforce under the CSR reporting scope includes longfactors. term leave. a Absenteeism excludes maternity and paternity leave. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 269 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ILO REPORT 4.6 ILO REPORT Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated environmental, labour and social information presented in the management report For the year ended December 31, 2015 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Europcar Groupe, appointed as an independent third party and certiﬁed by COFRAC under number 3-1060 (1), we hereby report to you our report on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended December 31, 2015, included in the management report (hereinafter named «CSR Information»), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITY The Chairman of the Management Board is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the CSR reporting protocol used by the Company (hereinafter the «Guidelines»), summarised in the management report under section 4.5 “Methodology Note” and available on request from the company’s head ofﬁce. INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Our independence is deﬁned by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. STATUTORY AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: a attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); a express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). Our work involved 5 persons and was conducted between October 2015 and February 2016 during a 4 week period. We were assisted in our work by our CSR experts. We performed our work in accordance with the French professional standards and with the order dated 13 May 2013 deﬁning the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and with ISAE 3000 (2) concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we veriﬁed that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. (1) Whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr. (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical ﬁnancial information. 270 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ILO REPORT We veriﬁed that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as deﬁned by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as deﬁned by article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological note, presented in section 4.5 “Methodology Note” of the management report. Conclusion Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted about 10 interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: 04 a assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; a verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important (3): a at the parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and veriﬁed, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also veriﬁed that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; a at the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us (4) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and to identify potential undisclosed data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents on average 60% of headcount and 59% of quantitative environmental data disclosed. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufﬁcient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 25, 2016 One of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit François Jaumain Sylvain Lambert Partner Partner in charge of the Sustainable Business department (3) The list of the CSR Information considered to be the most important is available in Appendix to this report (4) Europcar France, Europcar Group UK Ltd (United Kingdom), Europcar Autovermietung GmbH (Germany) EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 271 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION APPENDIX: LIST OF INFORMATION THAT WE CONSIDERED THE MOST IMPORTANT APPENDIX: LIST OF INFORMATION THAT WE CONSIDERED THE MOST IMPORTANT Quantitative Human Resources Information a Headcount as of December 31, 2015 per country, age, a Working time organization (Proportion of permanent part-time employment status and gender. employees, overtime hours, hours of atypical work). a Employment and departures (Number of hirings, number of a Absenteeism rate. total departures and allocation by motive). a Frequency and severity rate of workplace accidents. a Number of training hours. Qualitative Human Resources Information a Compensation policy and social security. a Training policy. a Health and safety working conditions. Quantitative Environmental Information a Consumption by energy source (electricity, renewable energy, a Average CO2 emission of the rental ﬂeet. natural gas). a Water consumption. a Fuel consumption. a Number of oil and fuel tanks. a Greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 1 and 2. Qualitative Environmental Information a Waste management and recycling policies. a Overview of greenhouse gas emissions. Qualitative Societal Information a Customer safety and protection measures. a Involvement of sub-contractors and consideraton of the suppliers’ and sub-contractors’ Corporate social responsability (CSR). 272 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015
