Content OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE 2016/17 FINANCIAL YEAR HUM AN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Principle 1: Supporting human rights Principle 7: Precautionary environmental protection Pages 3, 6, 7, 8 – 11, 14 – 15, 16 Pages 3, 6, 8 – 11, 12 – 14, 15 – 16, 16 – 19 AR 100 – 101, 105 – 106 Principle 2: Exclusion of any human rights abuses Pages 3, 6, 7, 8 – 11, 14 – 15, 16 Principle 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pages 6, 7 – 11, 12 – 14, 15 – 16, 16 – 19 Principle 9: Diffusion of environmentally friendly L ABOUR technologies Pages 6, 8 – 11, 12 – 14, 15 – 16, 16 – 19 Principle 3: Upholding freedom of association Pages 3, 6, 7, 8 – 11, 14 – 15, 16 AR 108 – 110 ANTIPrinciple 4: Elimination of all forms of forced labour Pages 3, 6, 7, 8 – 11, 14 – 15, 16 Principle 5: Abolition of child labour CORRUPTION Pages 3, 6, 7, 8 – 11, 14 – 15, 16 Principle 10: Measures to combat corruption Pages 3, 14 – 16 Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination AR 100 – 101, 107 Pages 3, 6, 14 – 15 AR 108 – 109 AR = Otto Group Annual Report 2016/17 Foreword OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 We want to set standards for further progressing into a sustainable future. With the ideas and skills of our employees we are able to use the possibilities of the digital transformation to open up better ways of transparency and accountability for us. We use these for instance to further develop our award-winning ‘impACT’ management process where we are putting the spotlight on those topics which pose the biggest environmental and social challenges. It is this process that is leading our way for positive impact while making us aware that considerable effort is still needed to achieve our defined goals. As a globally active retail and services group, many of our existing sustainability challenges lie in complex supply chains where we often can only exert indirect influence. This is why we continue to support multi-stakeholder initiatives like the Partnership for Sustainable Textiles. It is vital to combine ideas and resources with other companies from the industry, politics as well as civil society to jointly shape a sustainable development. IN A RAPIDLY Dear Readers, CHANGING the Otto Group has been a member ENVIRONMENT, WE DELIBERATELY of the United Nations Global Compact since 2002, promoting the ten principles UPHOLD OUR of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption. In my role as new Chairman LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY of the Otto Group Executive Board I would like to expressly renew our company’s commitment to the Global Compact. Responsible and sustainable GOALS business practice is deeply embedded Alexander Birken within our Group’s organisational structures and is of paramount importance for our success. In a rapidly changing business environment in the Hamburg, August 2016 age of digitalization, we deliberately continue to uphold our long-term sustainability goals. on behalf of the Otto Group In the past year we progressed on each of the Executive Board key indicators of our CR Strategy 2020 – we were able to substantially increase the amount of sustainable cotton, FSC-certified furniture products and FSC-certified paper for catalogues as well as the percentage of suppliers integrated AL E X AN D E R B I RKE N into our Social Programme, while reducing our Chairman of the Executive Board CO2 emissions at the same time. & CEO Otto Group 2 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 WHAT SUSTAINABILITY MEANS FOR THE OTTO GROUP When the concept of sustainable development was formulated 30 years ago by the World Commission impACT AS A GUIDE AND on Environment and Development, the balancing BENCHM ARK of ecological, social and economic interests The impACT sustainability management was still largely new. Today, the concept of process involves three steps – from the priori­ sustainability is an overall social concern and tisation of issues to the development and its mission more current than ever. assessment of measures to the implementation under the umbrella of the CR strategy. This process follows a holistic approach, helping to SUSTAINABILIT Y AS A use financial and human resources specifically where BUSINESS STR ATEGY they have the greatest impact on sustainability. The Responsibility for people and nature is rooted in the clear focus on effectiveness and efficiency, combined vision of the Otto Group. To achieve social and environwith business opportunities and risks, allows the Otto mental objectives for the Group is as much a part of Group to embed sustainability at the core of its busithe business strategy as economic success. It wants to ness processes. The topics that will be evaluated by the reduce the negative impact of its business activities and sustainability management depend largely on external create value for society. This works with the “impACT” requirements and developments. sustainability management process, laying the foundation for sustainable action. Results and findings of the impACT process are directly incorporated into the 2020 CR Strategy (CR = Corporate Responsibility). It is ESTIMATES TH part of the overall company strategy and includes five sub-strategies. GE E DAMA THE VALUE CHAIN AS A KEY CHALLENGE For the Otto Group as a trading group, the complexity of the value chain is an enormous challenge for systemTO ENV atic activities, geared towards sustainability aspects. The THE I R O N biggest social and ecological impacts of business activities are incurred in the preliminary stages of an extended supply chain. To handle this, the Otto Group fundamenIN tally reoriented its sustainability management in 2013. MENT Since then, it has determined ecological impacts and social risks along the entire value chain and quantified EUROS these through external costs and risk-working hours. The Otto Group now has a solid basis for decision-making to promote the sustainable direction of their business models efficiently and effectively. 3 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 WHAT INFLUENCES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT The requirements for sustainability management are constantly changing, for example, through market trends, sustainability activities of the international politics and digital transformation. The Otto Group are aimed at achieving Otto Group addresses these developments early on and a variety of SDGs. For example, considers them in its policies and actions. Systematithe use of Cotton made in Africa cally, this is done through stakeholder surveys and policy (CmiA)certified cotton provides evaluations as part of the impACT process. amongst other things a contribution to SDGs 1 “No Poverty”, 2 DIGITISATION OF THE BUSINESS “Zero Hunger” and 15 “Life on Land”. In 2017, the SDGs Digitisation notably concerns the business activities will be systematically included into the impACT process of the Otto Group and changes its business models of the Otto Group. radically. By linking and processing large amounts of data – from the demand side to the availability of SUSTAINABILIT Y AND DEM AND goods – production, logistics and sales processes can IN THE M ARKET be controlled more precisely and in a more resource-­ Young people are especially aware of the transformaefficient manner. tive power of sustainable consumption. In particular, S U S T A I N A B L Connecting a variety of different data sources E P R O D U C TS opens up new opportunities in sustainability management: Purchasing and sales figures can be selectively combined with external databases, for example to ecological impacts in the supply chain, in order to simulate and control external effects of the business model. New tracking and tracing methods also enable C A N N O T C O S T ( M U C H ) M O R E better traceability of products along the entire manufacturing process and create transparency for new sharing concepts are becoming increasingly further improvement measures in the upstream producpopular. But the willingness to buy organic or fairly tion steps. manufactured products is low across the total popuApart from considerable opportunities, digitisation also lation, due to their additional costs. Thus, the market presents great challenges for retail companies, such for sustainably produced goods still remains a niche. as constantly changing competitive conditions and For 2014, the Federal Environment Agency estimated customer preferences. These require a high degree of private consumption expenditure on green products in flexibility and adaptability from companies. Sustain­ Germany at around EUR 50 billion, representing about ability management is therefore faced with the task of 3.4% of total spending. Sustainable product alternatives pursuing sustainable progress and long-term goals in an in textiles, paper and wood products as well as cleaning ever more rapidly changing environment. products, at EUR 1.6 billion, played only a minor role. Sustainable approaches for the mass market need to THE GLOBAL consider the price sensitivity of customers – therefore a SUSTAINABILIT Y GOALS cost-effective increase in the sustainability performance The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), decided of the entire range is most important for the Otto Group. in autumn 2015 by the United Nations, influence the sustainability agendas of companies worldwide. The 4 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 POLITICAL AND REGUL ATORY Value-adding and process stages based on textiles DEVELOPMENTS Regulatory developments, policy initiatives and commitments in certain sectors directly influence the Raw Materials Otto Group. These include the Bangladesh Accord and & Processing the German Textile Alliance. The Bangladesh Accord RAW MATERIAL EXTRACTION was founded in 2013 in response to the collapse of the SPINNING YARN Rana Plaza building in which more than 1,100 people WEAVING & KNITTING REFINEMENT were killed. The Otto Group is one of the signatories of the agreement, which is intended to improve the health and safety of workers in Bangladesh’s garment factories. Final Production In addition, the company Group is a member of the SEWING German Textile Alliance initiated by the Federal DevelFINISHING & PACKAGING opment Minister Gerd Müller in 2014, which also aims at better working conditions and more environmental protection in the supply chain. The German Climate Action Plan 2050 for the impleTrade mentation of the Paris Agreement within the UN TRANSPORT obliges companies to achieve the 2 degree Celsius WAREHOUSING target: By 2030, greenhouse gas emissions in Germany SALES will have to drop by 55% compared with 1990 and 80 to DISTRIBUTION 95% by 2050. With its previous pro-active and ambitious climate change mitigation activities, the Otto Group is well positioned to respond adequately to future regulatory pressure. Regulatory measures are possible to aim Customer at increased energy efficiency of buildings or alternaUSE tive vehicle drive systems. DISPOSAL & RECYCLING HOW SUSTAINABILITY IS INTEGRATED INTO MANAGEMENT In order to manage its sustainability performance, the Otto Group has established the impACT management process, which is closely oriented to business processes. The goals are set by CR STR ATEGY 2020 the CR Strategy 2020. Developed in 2012, the CR strategy 2020 is an integral part of the company strategy. It is implemented by all impact of the Otto Group. The CR Strategy includes major Group companies (annual external revenue of five thematic sub-strategies. Due to the decentralised more than EUR 100 million), based in Germany and organi­sation of the Otto Group the managing directors Austria. Together they generate 59% of Group revenue of the individual Group companies are responsible for and are responsible for about 80% of the environmental the implementation of the five sub-strategies. 5 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 CR Strategy 2020 with participating Group companies CR STR ATEGY 2020 TEXTILE STR ATEGY CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION OF TARGET BY 2020 GROUP COMPANIES 100% sustainable cotton > EUR 10 million annual textile sales with own and licensed brands TARGET ACHIEVEMENT 2015 – 2016 PARTICIPATING COMPANIES 27% → 49% Bonprix, Frankonia, Heine, OTTO, Schwab, Sportscheck, Witt-Gruppe FURNITURE STR ATEGY TARGET BY 2020 CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION OF GROUP COMPANIES 100% FSC®-certified furniture > EUR 10 million sales in the product group furniture products PARTICIPATING COMPANIES TARGET ACHIEVEMENT 2015 – 2016 43% → 46% Baumarkt direkt, Bonprix, Heine, OTTO PAPER STR ATEGY TARGET BY 2020 CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION OF 50% FSC®-certified paper GROUP COMPANIES for catalogues > 1,000 t purchasing volume of catalogue paper PARTICIPATING COMPANIES TARGET ACHIEVEMENT 2015 – 2016 OTTO coordinates procurement for all 13 strategy companies * 28% → 34% (except for Mytoys, Hermes & EOS) SOCIAL PROGR A MME CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION OF TARGET BY 2020 GROUP COMPANIES Procurement of own and licensed brands 100% integrated suppliers PARTICIPATING COMPANIES TARGET ACHIEVEMENT 2015 – 2016 Bonprix, OTTO, Heine, Schwab, Witt-Gruppe, Frankonia **, Mytoys **, Sportscheck **, Unito ** 41% → 80% CLIM ATE STR ATEGY TARGET BY 2020 50% reduction of CO2 CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION OF GROUP COMPANIES emissions (base year 2006) Operating locations and hiring of transport TARGET ACHIEVEMENT 2015 – 2016 PARTICIPATING COMPANIES – 28% → – 34% All 13 strategy companies * * I ncluded in the CR Strategy 2020 are Baumarkt direkt, Baur, Bonprix, EOS, Frankonia, Heine, Hermes, Mytoys, OTTO, Schwab/Sheego, Sportscheck, Unito, Witt-Group. ** Companies are integrated into the Social Programme, their achievement values, however, are still listed separately and are not included in the target achievement value of the Otto Group. INCLUSION OF INTERNATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND SUBSIDIARIES IN THE CR STR ATEGY STRUCTURES Since 2016 Freemans Grattan Holdings (UK), Crate and The CEO of the Otto Group, Alexander Birken, is directly Barrel (USA and Canada) and the principal foreign enterresponsible for sustainability management and, at the prises of Bonprix (IT, USA, PL, FR) have been integrated same time, chairman of the CR Board, which decides on into the CR Strategy. Due to the subsequent integrastrategic sustainability issues. The CR Board also includes tion they pursue separate target paths in the relevant Hanjo Schneider, Member of the Executive Board, sub-strategies. First concrete targets have been set up Services Otto Group, and Dr Michael Heller, Member of for 2017. the OTTO Management Board for Categories. The annual 6 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 variable component of the Group’s Executive Board is MICHAEL OTTO FOUNDATION subject to the achievement of the CR Strategy 2020. FOR ENVIRONMENTAL The Sustainable Supply Chain Management Board PROTECTION (SSCM Board) has been a bridge between the CR For over 20 years, the Michael Otto Foundation Board and the Group’s operating divisions since 2014 has been committed to environmental protecand looks at the sustainability issues in the supply tion for a variety of conservation issues and to chain from a holistic perspective and prepares decieducation for sustainable development. In 2016, sions for the CR Board. It consists of managers and the Foundation was able to further develop its directors of selected Group companies and meets AQUA AGENTS project for the sustainable educafour to five times a year. tion of primary school pupils in a nationwide The Otto Group’s Sustainability Management Diviprogramme. They also took over responsibility sion manages the Group-wide sustainability activifor the Centre of Excellence for Nature Conservaties and advises companies on strategy implementation and Energy Policy. In January 2017, the Fountion and innovation. This includes the development dation initiated the nationwide dialogue and of strategies and concepts as well as the provision of demonstration project F.R.A.N.Z. (For resources, suitable measuring instruments. Other tasks include agriculture and nature protection with a future). stakeholder management, networking and knowledge transfer among the Group companies. social impacts of global textile production. Dr Johannes STAKEHOLDER M ANAGEMENT Merck, Otto Group Director for Corporate Responsibility AND DIALOGUE was appointed in 2015 as one of four business representThe Otto Group is in dialogue with its stakeholders atives in the steering committee of the Textile Alliance. to understand their expectations, to ensure a steady Representatives of the Group Division are involved in the transfer of knowledge and to involve them in stratechnical working groups of the Alliance. tegic developments. To do so, it uses a variety of channels. For example, the requirements and assessments of Bangladesh Accord: The Otto Group is a signatory of the selected stakeholders influence the strategic direction of Bangladesh Accord (see also page 15), which has been the company Group through the impACT management developed together with our global union federations process. In addition, the Otto Group promotes external IndustriALL and UniGlobal, the Clean Clothes Campaign CP initiatives and involves itself in the public debate on (CCC), the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC), national sustainability. unions and major international companies in the textile O RAT N sector. When founded in 2013, the I Accord was initially intended for a O five-year period. The Otto Group, O as a member of the Accord Steering MAKES Committee, is currently focused on EECIE E working on the conceptual design of I N I T I A T I V E S an action plan post 2018. M FF V Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC): OE R T This non-profit organi­ sation is committed to preserve forests by promoting responsible forest management (see also page 13). Strict management criteria avoid uncontrolled deforestation and human rights abuses and fosters the preservation of ecosystems and Textile Alliance: The German Alliance for Sustainable biodiversity. In summer 2016, the annual FSC General Textiles unites stakeholders from industry, commerce, Assembly was held at the Otto Group in Hamburg. On politics, trade unions and civil society with the aim of this occasion, the company also celebrated its 10-year systematically reducing the negative environmental and membership in the organisation. 7 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 Textile Exchange: The international network promotes Foundation 2°: Initiated by the Dr Michael Otto, the sustainability in the textile industry. With Andreas foundation brings together prominent business leaders Streubig, head of Division Sustainability Management, who work on climate change mitigation. Foundation 2° the Otto Group is represented on the Governance Board has set itself the goal of supporting the policy of estabof the organisation. The Annual Conference 2016 was lishing an effective enterprise framework for climate held with the support of the member company Otto change mitigation and to leverage German companies’ Group in Hamburg. required competencies. For example in 2016 it published statements for the federal government’s Climate Action Plan 2050 as well as on the theme of carbon consensus. HOW MATERIALITY LEADS TO As part of its sustainability management, the Otto Group determines and evaluates the social ACTION and environmental impacts throughout the value chain. This enables resources to be allocated where they have the greatest impact. Developed by the Otto Group, the impACT management the CR Strategy 2020. In 2014, the Otto Group received process links the effects (impact) with the derived action the German Federal Government’s CSR Award for this (act). The impACT process involves three steps: First, the innovative approach. impacts of business activities on people and nature are qualitatively and quantitatively assessed and identified impACT STEP 1: as material topic areas. This prioritisation is used in the M ATERIALIT Y ANALYSIS second step as a basis for the development of strategic The Otto Group Materiality Analysis comprises a quantiobjectives and operational measures that will eventually tative assessment of all environmental and social impacts be implemented in the third step under the umbrella of of operations and an evaluation of these challenges from THE FOUR VALUE-ADDING STAGES The Otto Group divides its business activities and its sustainability performance into four stages of the value chain: ▶ ▶ R aw Materials & Processing: In the first stage raw materials are produced and prepared for production. ▶ ▶ F inal Production: At this stage, the finished products are produced from the intermediate products and packaged for transpor t. ▶ ▶ Trade: This stage includes the transpor t of goods from the production countries to the markets, storage and delivery to customers. ▶ ▶ C ustomer: This final stage includes the entire usage phase and disposal or recycling of products. 8 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 a stakeholder perspective. The quantitative analThe qualitative assessment consists of four surveys: ysis is carried out annually, the stakeholder surveys ▶▶ In order to assess the expectations of external stakeholders, every two years, most recently in 2016. the Otto Group, in 2016, conducted an on-line survey among experts from science, politics, non-governmental organisations QUANTITATIVE and research (weighting on the overall result of the qualitative IDENTIFICATION OF EXTERNAL assessment: 50%). COSTS AND RISKS ▶▶ For an assessment of reputational risks and opportunities For the quantitative assessment (see y-axis of all topic areas were assessed in internal workshop (weighting: the matrix on page 11) the environmental and 16.7%). social impacts along the four value-adding stages ▶▶ In order to assess regulatory risks, the probability of the are determined. The ecological effects are allocated introduction of regulations was determined internally and linked to the four impact categories greenhouse gases, to the estimated expenses that would arise for the Otto Group if pollutants, water consumption and land use. For its the regulation was introduced (Weighting: 16.7%). calculation, the Otto Group links its purchasing and ▶▶ The evaluation of the topic areas in terms of their relevance to sales numbers with values from external databases the business of the Otto Group was carried out by means of an onon impacts on ecosystems and human health. This line survey addressed to directors and board members (Weighting: results in quantitative values that are converted into 16.7%). “caused” external environmental costs (in EUR). Distribution of ecological impacts and social risks along the value chain Value-adding stages Raw Materials & Processing Final Production Trade Customer Social Risks (risk-working 67% 24% 9% Not relevant hours) Greenhouse Gases Four environmental impact categories Pollutants Water Consumption Land Use Total Ecological Impacts (EUR) 72% 6% 9% 13% 9 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 1. The social consequences are represented by the fifth The three steps of the impACT process impact category of social risks and measured by riskworking hours. To do so, the Group determines the countryand industry-specific risk that indicates the chance of working hours performed in violation of minimum social Carry out a standards. By quantifying environmental and social Materiality impacts, the Otto Group receives a realistic picture of the Analysis external effects associated with its business activities, i.e. its ecological and social footprint. see graphic page 11 QUALITATIVE EVALUATION BY STAKEHOLDERS 2. In addition, the individual topic areas are assessed by internal and external stakeholders (see the x-axis of the matrix on page 11). Topic areas refer to the effects by impact category and value-adding stage (for example, greenhouse gases in the Trade value-adding stage). In Develop measures addition to the 20 topic areas, stakeholders in 2016 estiand assess their mated the relevance of the topics of animal welfare, costs & benefits recycling and resource efficiency for the Otto Group. The evaluation of all issues was performed in view of the see text below next two to five years. M ATERIALIT Y M ATRIX 2017 3. In the matrix (see chart, page 11) all results of the Materiality Analysis are merged. It shows which topic areas are particularly relevant to the Otto Group because of the high external effects and/or importance of the Implement measures Otto Group for the various stakeholder groups. under the umbrella of impACT STEP 2: DERIVING the CR Strategy TARGETS AND MEASURES Based on the Materiality Analysis, the Otto Group see graphic page 6 develops potential measures which then undergo a cost-benefit analysis. Both the benefits for the Otto Group as well as for people and nature are considered. For this purpose, it is determined to what extent compared with the estimated expenses, for example, the potential measures can reduce the environmental investment or personnel costs. impacts and social risks. The evaluation of the benefits for the Otto Group includes whether these reduce repuimpACT STEP 3: IMPLEMENTING tational and regulatory risks, increase market opporTHE CR STR ATEGY D tunities by increasing efficiency and innovation, and The measures with the best cost-benefit ratio are E T E R MINE meet the expectations of external stakeholders. This is presented to the SSCM Board, adjusted if necessary and then submitted to the CR Board for decision. Any O T P R I NT THE measure adopted is then managed under the umbrella of the CR Strategy 2020. In the third FO step of the impACT process, the Otto Group thus OTTO GROUP implements the insights gained from the Materiality Analysis and the cost-benefit assessment. OF THE The centrally controlled measures with Groupwide relevance are supplemented by specific activities of the individual Group companies. 10 Strategy and Management OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 Materiality Matrix 2017: Relevance of the topic areas for the Otto Group y Pollutants Social Risks Quantitative Assessment (in EUR or Risik working hours) Greenhouse Gases Water Consumption Social Risks Greenhouse Gases Land Use Greenhouse Gases Greenhouse Gases Pollutants Social Risks Pollutants Pollutants Water Water Consumption Consumtion Water Consumtion Land Use Land use Land Use Stakeholder Evaluation (50% internal, 50% external) x Raw Materials & Processing Final Production Trade value-adding Customer valuevalue-adding stage value-adding stage stage adding stage M ATERIALIT Y ANALYSIS 2017 A comparison of the results with the 2015 analysis shows the following changes: ▶ ▶ Social risks in trade were rated higher, mainly due to possible adjustment (adjustment of the minimum wage in Germany and corresponding cost ef fects). ▶ ▶ The impact category of greenhouse gases was rated less relevant in the entire value chain. This could result from the perception that the Paris Agreement will enforce climate regulations ef fectively. ▶ ▶ From the point of view of external stakeholders, the additional topics of recycling and ­r esource ef ficiency have a medium relevance for the Otto Group across the entire value chain. The issue of animal welfare has little relevance (little need for action) for the business model of the Otto Group. 11 Raw Materials and Processing value-adding stage OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 RAW MATERIALS AND PROCESSING VALUEADDING STAGE The first stage of the value chain comprises the assembly and exploitation of raw materials and brands. In 2016 the use of sustainable their further processing. The share of environcotton rose to 49% (2015: 27%). This posimental impacts and social risks is greatest here at tive development is mainly due to the around 70 percent. With three sub-strategies, the increasingly well-established cotton company contributes to more sustainable usage of raw sourcing processes from the Cotton made materials. in Africa (CmiA) initiative and the associated significant increase in use at OTTO, The Otto Group is working intensively to achieve more Bonprix and the Witt Group. As a result of higher CmiA sustainable extraction of raw materials and to work sourcing volumes, the share of sustainable cotton is towards a better management of chemicals in the expected to continue to grow significantly in 2017. production facilities along the supply chain. Already in the cultivation of cotton and the subsequent refinement of textiles many chemicals are used, which can be COT TON M ADE IN AFRICA harmful for humans and nature. The sub-strategies for “Cotton made in Africa” (CmiA) is an initiative textiles, furniture and paper promote more sustainable of the Aid by Trade Foundation, founded in 2005 cotton production and a responsible use of wood, the by Dr Michael Otto. Compared to conventional raw materials most widely used in the Otto Group. cotton, CmiA-certified cotton causes up to 40% less greenhouse gas emissions, saves around STATUS TEXTILE STR ATEGY 2,100 litres of water per kilogram through the In the year 2020, only cotton from sustainable cultivaexclusive use of rainwater and excludes the use tion will be used for the company’s own and licensed of certain pesticides. In addition, smallholders benefit from agricultural and business training CO T as well as dependable payment. Cost-effective C M I AH A S sourcing allows companies to use CmiA cotton in the mass market. The underlying “mass balance T ON SAVED approach” is similar to the green electricity model: CmiA cotton does not have to be detect33 ed in individual products. The decisive factor M O R E T H A N is that a corresponding quantity flows into the BILL value chain and thus demand is created. In 2016, 690,000 smallholders in nine African countries benefited from the CmiA initiative. More than ION 280,000 tonnes of CmiA cotton were produced – the Otto Group procured an equivalent quantity of almost 16,000 tonnes. LITRES OF WATE R IN COTTON GROWING I N 2 0 1 6 12 Raw Materials and Processing value-adding stage OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 Sustainable cotton * (in t) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total quantity of cotton 39,453 35,599 35,941 33,664 Quantity of organic cotton 607 478 504 639 Quantity of CmiA cotton 2,164 3,405 9,225 15,913 Share of sustainable cotton 7% 11% 27% 49% * Based on the sourcing volume of raw cotton. STATUS FURNITURE STR ATEGY An obstacle to the complete FSC certification of the The goal is the complete conversion of the wood furniwood furniture range is the low availability of FSC-certure series to items from responsible forestry, certified tified wood materials (especially fibre board) on the according to the Forest Stewardship Council’s (FCS) German market, since so far only the Otto Group has standard. In 2016, FSC-certified wood accounted for 46% been a major consumer. In addition, the proportion of (2015: 43%) of the total wood furniture range. The slight FSC-certified forest area in Germany at about 10% is increase resulted from agreements between subsidiaries relatively low. In a working group formed together with and the major furniture suppliers. In 2017, the FSC-share representatives of the FSC and other furniture retailers, is expected to significantly increase in the wood furnithe Otto Group advocates for better availability and ture range. increased demand for FSC-certified wood materials in Germany. FSC-certified furniture products (number) 2013 2014 * 2015 2016 Total number of furniture articles 45,485 56,350 49,694 58,527 of which, number of FSC-certified articles 11,872 18,688 21,281 26,829 in the assortment Share of FSC-certified articles in terms 26% 33% 43% 46% of the overall furniture assortment * Up to 2014, including OTTO Office; from 2015 without OTTO Office. STATUS PAPER STR ATEGY with suppliers through the Group company OTTO, which The Otto Group is one of the largest paper consumers coordinates the sourcing of much of the catalogue paper in Germany. By 2018, the proportion of FSC-certified within the Otto Group. For the same reason, a significant paper from gravure and offset printing processes for increase in the FSC share is expected for 2017. In addition, catalogues and advertising material should be at least an increase of the target value for 2020 will be reviewed 50%. In 2016, the FSC proportion was 34% (2015: 28%). in 2017. The reasons for the increase were long-term agreements Catalogue and advertising-material paper consumption (in t) 2013 2014 2015 2016 * Total quantity of paper 258,382 264,189 239,560 221,497 of which, quantity of FSC paper 28,306 51,172 67,833 75,047 Share of FSC paper 11% 19% 28% 34% * Data based on forecast figures which deviate only slightly from actual figures. 13 Final Production value-adding stage OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 ROADM AP TEXTILE ALLIANCE PRACTICAL EXAMPLE As part of the membership of the German Textile Alliance, in early 2017 OF BONPRIX the first roadmap with objectives Sustainable raw materials: In addition to Cotton made in Africa, for the current year was presented. organic cotton and FSC materials, Bonprix also offers REPREVE®. This Thereby, the Otto Group dealt intenrecycled polyester fibre is made from PET bottles and registered sively with the classification of its under the Global Recycled Standard of the non-profit organisation own sustainability activities and Textile Exchange. From it, new products such as outdoor jackets or objectives in relation to the Allijeans are produced. ance’s requirements by the end of 2017. The roadmap concentrates on the issues that the Textile Alliance currently puts into management. The Group will report annually on the focus: Chemicals management, natural fibres and social target achievements. FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE At this stage, the final steps in the manufacturing process up to the packaging of goods for transport take commitment of the Group is clear: place. The ecological impacts of business activities are The Otto Group takes its responsirather low, whereas risks of inadequate working condibility in the supply chain seriously tions are high. The Otto Group focuses on these through and with its Social Programme, its social programme and its partnerships. wants to ensure acceptable working conditions at all production sites and qualify them accordingly. The actions of the Otto Group in the Final Production value-adding stage depend on the nature of the sourcing CODES OF CONDUCT of merchandise. Around half of the traded goods are In accordance with its sourcing structure, the Otto Group third-party brands – in this case, the brand manufachas introduced two Codes of Conduct with established turers are obligated to sign the Otto Group’s Code of social standards: one for merchandising goods and one Conduct or the Group recognises their codes of conduct for non-merchandising goods and services. The Code of in case of agreement. In the case of own and licensed brands, one part is procured directly, the other through importers or external sourcing organisations. The manufacturing factories are rarely direct business partners of the Otto Group, since a contractual relationship usually FOCUS ON WORKI NG only exists with the supplier, who often cooperates with CO different factories. In addition, the range of products NDITIONS at more than 1 million is high and the order quantity per article often low. Together with the complex sourcing structures, this makes it difficult for the Group companies to influence conditions of production. Nevertheless, the IN RISK COUNTRIES 14 Final Production value-adding stage OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 Social Programme: Integration status and supplier performance Description 2016 Status: integrated 80% Valid and accepted standards or assessments provided accepted 51% for all of a supplier’s active factories Valid SA8000 certificates or a BSCI audit result of ‘good’ advanced achieved 17% provided for all of a supplier’s active factories BSCI member Importer is a BSCI member 12% Status: not achieved 20% A supplier does not have valid and accepted standards or Not accepted 10% assessments for all active factories Integration status still unclear as, for example, transNo Performance parency has not yet been established concerning 10% active factories Conduct for merchandise is based, inter alia, on the core IMPLEMENTATION OF THE labour standards of the International Labour OrganizaBANGL ADESH ACCORD tion and relevant UN Conventions against Child Labour To implement the Bangladesh Accord, comprehensive and Gender Discrimination. Suppliers and business partcorrective measures, informed by independent safety ners commit themselves with their signatures not only investigations, were taken in the reporting period to to comply within their own company, but also to ensure improve safety at work in all 32 factories in Bangladesh the standards at their subcontractors. in which the Otto Group manufactures. STATUS SOCIAL PROGR A MME GROUP DIRECTIVE The programme integrates all suppliers for own and SUSTAINABILIT Y IN licensed brands of the Group companies producing in PROCUREMENT factories in risk countries (according to the BSCI classifiThe internal guideline “Sustainability in Procurement” cation1) . Integrated suppliers are suppliers that provide establishes social and ecological minimum requirements valid and accepted social audits or certificates for all for the entire sourcing of goods by the Group compafactories producing for Otto Group companies. In 2016, nies. Since 1 January 2017, it has been valid in an updated this was true for 80% of the suppliers (2015: 41%). The version throughout the Group. The thematic additions significant increase is mostly due to improved data include guidelines for the use of recycled materials in availability regarding social standards of factories. The textiles and the prevention of chemicals, as well as the Otto Group creates this transparency with the help of ban on the sale of mercury-containing fluorescent lamps a Group-wide database – the Supply Chain Database implemented in 2014. Due to the further improvement of data management and the resulting control possibilities, a slight increase in the integration rate is also PRACTICAL expected in 2017. In addition, the consistent terminaEXAMPLE OF tion of cooperation with non-compliant suppliers will contribute to the expected increase. ­B O N P R I X In 2016, 124 factories in the main sourcing countries of Qualification measures: By the end of 2016 Bonprix China, Turkey, India and Bangladesh took part in the was able to integrate 92% of its suppliers into the Otto Group’s qualification programme. In small groups, Social Programme. These suppliers provided valid selected factory representatives acquire skills to improve and accepted social audits/ standards for all factories working conditions over several months, in order to be active for Bonprix. In addition, selected factories able to implement them permanently. were trained in small groups over a period of several months within the framework of a qualification programme in order to achieve sustainable improvements in their production plants. 1 http://www.bsci-intl.org/sites/default/files/countries_risk_classification_ final_version_20140109.pdf 15 Trade value-adding stage OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 and energy-saving lamps. In addition to minimum standthan 900 children and young people have been visiting ards, the revised Directive contains recommendations on education centres and children’s clubs with the help of the use of sustainable materials. the Otto Group, and have been trained or completed an apprenticeship. In addition, about 1,100 children in COMMITMENT AGAINST public schools benefit from improved quality of educaCHILD L ABOUR tion. The parents are supported to set up a small busiFor nine years the Otto Group has been working with ness to be able to afford the education of their children. the human rights organisation Terre des Hommes to The successful cooperation with Terre des Hommes will combat child labour in India. Since the start, more be completed as planned in March 2017. PARTNERSHIPS The Otto Group has played a key role in establishing the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), an initiative by traders and producers with the aim of improving working conditions in the supply chain. In 2016 the Otto Group helped, for example, to develop a “Guidance package” with recommendations for action to identify and avoid precarious working conditions for refugees in the Turkish clothing industry. In order to improve the climate change mitigation of textile manufacturers in the supply chain, the Otto Group set up the Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative (CPI2) together with seven other trading companies. The range of topics has been expanded to water and chemicals. In the CPI2 data tool, more than 400 improvement measures are now available with information on their effort and benefits. In 2016, 168 textile manufacturers producing for the Otto Group followed these recommendations. TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE At this stage, the environmental impacts and the social risks are relatively low, the influence of the Otto Group is however high. The main effects are the greenhouse gas and pollutant emissions resulting In addition to the activities at the approxi­ from sourcing transport and the delivery of goods. mately 400 locations in Germany, the With its Climate Strategy, the Group aims to reduce Trade value-adding stage also comprises CO2 emissions. the transport from the sourcing countries to the warehouses of the trading companies and STATUS CLIM ATE STR ATEGY the distribution from the warehouses to the customers. By 2020, the adjusted CO₂ emissions from the company’s Every year, the German Group companies procure own sites, as well as sourcing and distribution transports, around 100,000 tonnes of goods. Both the sourcing and are to be halved in comparison to the base year 2006. Last delivery of goods are mostly carried out by the Group year, the adjusted CO₂ emissions decreased from 212,000 company Hermes. Thus, the Otto Group’s room for to 196,000 tonnes compared to 2015. Compared to the manoeuvre is high. At the same time foreseeable legal base year, this means a reduction of 34% (2015: 28%). regulations limiting pollutant emissions underline the The development is mainly due to the shift in airfreight need for action in the field of transport. Possible restricto the lowered CO₂ rates for sea, road and rail transport tions, such as access restrictions for inner cities, would as well as in distribution logistics to a sharp increase hit trading companies and logistics service providers in delivery volumes at Hermes Germany and the assoparticularly hard. ciated efficiency increases per delivery. CO₂ emissions 16 Trade value-adding stage OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 will also drop significantly in 2017, since on 1 January 2017 many Otto Group power supplies were switched to PR AC TI C A L high-quality certified green electricity. Another contriE X A M PLE O F bution to target achievement is expected at Hermes Germany: The company is further optimising its locaH E R M ES tion structure and distribution to the customer from the Urban Blue 4.0: The delivery quantities of economic as well as the environmental point of view. packages to private customers are expected to nearly double from 2015 to 2025. Against ENVIRONMENTAL M ANAGEMENT the background of increasing urbanisation AT ITS OWN SITES and the already large impact through noise At their locations, the Otto Group pays attention to the and pollutants, new ways must be found careful use of natural resources such as water and the to maintain urban quality of life. Hermes responsible management of waste. At locations with Germany sees itself as a provider of solutions more than 5,000 square meters of usable space, as for sustainable urban logistics and as a partner for municipalities and trade. With S I N C E 20 06, 34% the Urban Blue 4.0 concept, Hermes Germany pursues the strategic goal of delivering goods free of emissions in all inner cities of Germany. Steps to this target include, for example, the successive conversion of the vehicle fleet to low-emission engines, the use of parcel shops as urban micro-hubs and the CO use of electric cargo bikes as well as parcel robots. For this purpose, Hermes Germany cooperates with Starship Technologies REDUC and tests the partly automatic delivery in 2 TI O N Hamburg. well as at all of the head offices of the Group companies included in the report, energy and water consumpDistribution of adjusted CO 2 emissions 2016 tion as well as sewage and waste water are measured. At present, 15 of the sites covered by the reporting have environmental management systems that are certified 59% Transport according to the international standard ISO 14001. DEALING WITH CONTRACTORS FOR PARCEL DELIVERY 37% Locations The package delivery at Hermes Germany usually is taken over by contract partners. Since 2012 these are being reviewed regularly by an internal audit team and 4% Mobility * the certification company SGS-TÜV Saar, which spot checks aspects of occupational safety, compensation, * Includes employee business trips and the operation of the company car fleet. Absolute and adjusted CO 2 emissions (in t) 2006 (base year) 2014 2015 2016 absolute in t 296,200 248,101 245,891 235,873 adjusted in t 296,200 224,149 212,241 196,468 Reduction in adjusted CO ₂ emissions – – 24% – 28% * – 34% versus 2006 * With respect to the Annual Report 2015/16 value has changed with updated location data from – 27% to – 28%. 17 Customer value-adding stage OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 working hours, quality and environment. Since 2013 all active contract partners and focus on the risk areas a consistently high certification rate of 95 – 99% has of employment conditions and service management. In been achieved. During the reporting period, 208 of the parallel, the contract partners¬ continue to be randomly 403 active contract partners were audited, 205 of which checked in internal audits for the aspects work safety, received the certificate. In 2017, SGS-TÜV Saar will audit environment and quality. Waste by category (in t) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total waste 36,602 35,018 30,561 35,855 Quantity of hazardous waste * 73 115 189 905 Share of hazardous waste 0.2% 0.3% 0.6% 2.5% Quantity of non-hazardous waste 36,529 34,903 30,373 34,950 Share of non-hazardous waste 99.8% 99.7% 99.4% 97.5% * Hazardous waste is generated mainly by electrical waste at the Otto Group. The rise in 2016 was due to construction work at the location Hamburg-Bramfeld (715 t asphalt containing tar). CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE During product use, an average of 13% of the total environmental impacts incur across the product range. The Group companies initiate individual measures to sensitise their customers in the The Customer value-adding stage includes selection and use of products for sustainability. all phases of product usage to disposal and recycling. Relevant from an ecological point of view are the release of greenhouse gases and pollutthese impacts. From a social perspective, sustainable ants, for example by the energy consumption and the consumption is desirable. However, beyond food and discharge of chemicals during the washing of textiles. cosmetics the willingness of most consumers to pay for A sustainable product range and marketing can reduce sustainably manufactured products is low. ORIENTATION FOR CONSUMERS According to surveys, consumers often feel overwhelmed by the multitude of labels when it comes to sustainable consumption. The GOODproduct label serves as identification and combines all relevant seals and certificates with sustainable added value. Unlike in the case of food shopping, “eco” or “organic” in fashion shopping is more associated with renunciation and a bad conscience. This is why the term GOODproduct is used, which conveys a positive shopping experience that is both socially and environmentally compatible. The GOODproduct label was introduced by the Group company OTTO in July 2015. Meanwhile, it is also used by the Group companies Baur, Heine, Schwab and Unito. 18 Customer value-adding stage OTTO GROUP – Sustainability Report 2016/17 FUR-FREE FASHION In addition to the long-term exclusion of fur from the PR ACTICAL product range, the Otto Group has been a member of EXAMPLES OF the international “Fur Free Retailer” programme since 2014, whose signatories assure not to use any real fur. OTTO In this way, a clear public sign of animal protection is set Campaign on sustainability: For the first time, OTTO beyond the previous self-commitment to the protection broadcasted a TV spot on sustainability in 2016. A 360° of animals. communication accompanied the “Cotton made in Africa” campaign. It intended to raise awareness among consumers of responsible cotton farming. CUST A N T A Access to clean drinking water: As part of the “Drop for OM ERS Life” project, OTTO and the Aid by Trade Foundation, the cotton company Plexus and Deutsche Entwicklungsund Investitionsgesellschaft (DEG) support drinking water W P E RTHROUGH supplies to villages in Mozambique. In the project period S O N A L from November 2014 to August 2016, more than 50,000 people in 20 villages got access to clean drinking water for the first time. Thus, OTTO draws its customers’ A DVA N T AG E attention to sustainability issues in the value chain and SPU ST A I N A B L demonstrates the commitment they have made. E Renting instead of buying: With OTTO Now, OTTO RODU C T S is testing a new business model and is approaching customers who just want to use a product temporarily. On the platform they can rent products such as televisions, washing machines and electric bikes. Efficient large electrical appliances * 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of large electrical appliances in total 2,504 2,876 2,030 ** 2,597 range Share of efficient large electrical appliances in 57.8% 68.9% 32.3% 31.7% total range * E  lectrical appliances are considered to be efficient if they are provably more energy-efficient than the average energy consumption values in their product group (for example, refrigerator-freezer combinations in energy class A+++). ** Criteria were tightened in the second half of 2015 (for example, from A ++ to A +++), and only data for the second half of 2015 were collected. 19
