2017 Sustainability Report We are 90,000 employees helping solve some of the world’s biggest challenges, connected by a single ambition. #improvinglives Our Every Life Ambition 34 Global Challenges 38 What We Create 168 Clear Intentions and Cleaner Water in Flint 18 WorldSkills™ Partnerships 31 Feature stories Improving every life 10 A desirable location for Millennials 13 Leadership development programs 14 New expanded parental leave benefits 15 15% time 15 We see through the eyes and minds of children 16 Our headquarters campus is always buzzing 17 Innovation with purpose 18 Clear intentions and cleaner water in Flint 18 Solutions for an identity crisis in India 20 We’re up on the roof rethinking solar 21 L.A. cools down city’s urban heat island effect 22 Disposable respirator stockpile maintenance program 23 Reducing healthcare packaging footprint 24 Pain relief for incontinence sufferers 24 Net-Zero energy 25 It takes a community 26 3M Legal Affairs pro bono work 27 National Museum of African American History & Culture 28 GlobalGiving 30 WorldSkills™ partnerships 31 Setting ambitious goals 32 Sustainability is nothing new at 3M 32 Renewable energy boost 33 3M and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 33 Contents Our Leadership Every Life Who We Are How We Work What We Create About Report 6 34 50 76 168 188 Message from our CEO 7 Introduction 36 Introduction 52 Introduction 78 Introduction 170 Report Scope and Boundaries 190 Message from our CSO 8 Global Challenges 38 Our Corporate Values and Vision 56 Corporate Governance 80 Our Customers 172 Indices to GRI and UNGC 194 Materiality 40 Communities 58 Enterprise Risk 86 Innovation Management 178 Assurance Statement 206 2025 Goals 46 Engaging Our Stakeholders 66 Corporate Code of Conduct 90 Our Products 184 Metric Tables 212 Diversity and Inclusion 70 Human Rights 98 Compensation 106 Employee Programs 110 Health and Safety 120 Environmental Management 128 Raw Materials 134 Water 142 Climate and Energy 146 Suppliers 158 Our Leadership | A message from Inge G. Thulin G4 As a company serving a multitude of industries • We partnered with the Smithsonian to open SD 1-2 in nearly every country on the planet, we the new National Museum of African American recognize the opportunity we have: to grow History & Culture in Washington, D.C., by our business while solving some of the world’s providing financial and product support. biggest problems. • A survey by the National Institute of High School Scholars ranked 3M as the top place to work for This requires, first and foremost, collaboration—with millennials. our customers, partners, and stakeholders. It means understanding the everyday Sustainability challenges • We convened customer conversations focused faced by our customers, the important commitments on Sustainability, and embedded Sustainability companies and governments have made, and how all of into our business strategies across the company this impacts the bigger picture—the large, long-term and the globe. societal issues that must be faced to empower generations to come. We also began our journey toward our 2025 Sustainability Goals, which include investing in sustainable “Today, some of our most We look forward to forging new approaches that serve materials, energy efficiency, and water management; both business and society. helping our customers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions through the use of our products; promoting At the same time, we recognize the progress we have important goals serve the needs worker and patient safety in health care and industrial made throughout 2016, which demonstrates the value of settings; and strengthening our workforce by doubling keeping Sustainability in our sights at all times, and in all 3M’s pipeline of diverse leaders by 2025. of the places 3M operates: of everyone on this planet.” • We continued using science to develop products that address challenges facing our customers In collaboration with our customers, partners and stakeholders, 3M will reach these goals. We will continue to invest in developing products that help our and our global community, including enhancing customers reach their targets, while increasing our own human health, promoting access to clean water, – Inge G. Thulin Sustainability efforts in accordance with the UN Global increasing energy efficiency, and enabling safe Chairman of the Board, Compact and its principles. work environments. President and Chief Executive Officer, 3M • We released a new parental leave policy that Inge G. Thulin extends the amount of leave while including Chairman of the Board, both biological and adoptive parents, which is President and Chief Executive Officer, 3M designed to help all parents play active roles in their families. 6 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 7 Our Leadership A message from our Chief Sustainability Officer, Jean Bennington Sweeney As Chief Sustainability Officer, I get the opportunity It’s inspiring to see how the idea of working toward a to speak to a variety of audiences about Sustainability greater good, and doing so with creativity and collabotopics. ration, really moves people. How recognizing individual roles in creating positive change can drive business as I’ve talked with students, investors, 3M employees, B2B well as personal fulfillment. and B2C companies, consumers, government leaders, from across industries and across the globe, and there is I get to share how at 3M we have a Vision statement one topic that resonates everywhere: purpose. from our CEO that directly states our overarching purpose: to improve every life. And how a sense of purpose is at the heart of everything we do—from products to policies to partnerships. This commitment to the greater good is growing every year. We are looking at ways to build purpose into leadership and talent development across the company, to recognize business opportunities that help our company grow while addressing societal issues, and to expand and improve our partnerships with customers and suppliers by working together toward solving their “At 3M, we are driving both Sustainability challenges, which in turn serves us all. As you read this report, and learn more about the business growth and societal impact through purpose.” journey we are on toward a greater purpose, I encourage you to think about your strengths and passions, the capability you have to impact societal issues, as well as the capabilities of your sphere of influence—your employer, your social network, your community—and – Jean Bennington Sweeney see if there is opportunity for more purposeful work. Chief Sustainability Officer If we all recognize our opportunities and take action accordingly, the resulting impact serves individuals and society, and is, quite frankly, good for business. Thank you for learning more about what we at 3M are doing toward #improvinglives, and for the purpose you bring to each and every day. Jean Bennington Sweeney Chief Sustainability Officer 8 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 9 Every life We are 90,000 employees with a single ambition. Improving Every Life It’s our Vision statement. But more than that it’s a personal calling for 3M employees everywhere. A daily prescription to apply our science, our curiosity and our resources to the world’s challenges, problems, needs and opportunities. Sometimes, the answers are just what people are looking for. Sometimes, they are game-changing. Always, they are the product of purposeful collaboration — between 3Mers, 3M and customers, 3M and other organizations who share our passion for creating a better world. Of course, important achievements don’t happen overnight. They’re the result of a journey that involves constant learning, improving and innovating. Lessons are encountered along the way. Those lessons are applied to the task at hand. And, in the end, the stories we create, the achievements of which we’re most proud, reflect the meaningful difference we are able to bring to every life. 10 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 11 Every life 3M is a most preferred potential workplace In our drive to improve every life, 2016 survey by National Society of High School Scholars every employee counts. If a single virtue can be credited for 3M’s ability to bring positive change to the world, it is our drive to create an environment where people can work with purpose. A Desirable Location for Millennials In a 2016 survey of 13,000 students and young employers, including Google, Apple, Amazon, St. Jude professionals in the U.S., conducted by the National Children’s Research Hospital and Walt Disney Company. Society of High School Scholars, 3M bumped 2015 According to Society President James W. Lewis, leader Google out of the top spot for most preferred millennials hope to find “fair treatment, corporate social potential workplace. Millennials are now the largest responsibility and strong company benefits, which include segment in the U.S. workforce and are especially flexible work schedules” in the workplace. In addition, important as businesses look to fill openings created survey participants expressed a keen interest in science, by growth and the retirement of Baby Boomers. 3M technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), areas was joined in the top 10 by several other highly-reputed that match well with 3M’s diverse career paths. 12 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 13 Every employee Leadership New “We listened to our employees. We’re looking at attracting and retaining talent. For us, it’s Expanded about creating a more engaged Development Programs Parental Leave workforce.” — Mike Anderson 3M Director of HR, Global Benefits Of the many innovations 3M produced in 2016, this one may, in the long term, be the most important: breaking executive leaders, customers and peers, blended with online and mobile-enabled experiences. At the same Benefits In 2016, 3M announced the expansion of its U.S. parental leave benefits. These benefits now extend to ground with a new leadership development platform. time, the Amplify, Ignite and Spark programs will both biological and adoptive parents. Permitted time The Catalyst program will help the company develop develop employees at all levels within the company. off has now been increased to 20 weeks, including leaders who can develop other leaders, empower teams Participants will use real-time projects and spot 10 paid weeks. Biological mothers will also continue that can create and innovate on behalf of customers, and coaching to develop their skills. They will also engage to receive six to eight weeks of short-term disability inspire all 3Mers to be their best. It moves leadership customers and community leaders throughout several development from a limited, time-based event to a phases of the program. In the end, Catalyst, Amplify, up to 28 weeks total time off, for a total of up to 28 weeks of maternity leave. The expanded benefits are part of 3M’s ongoing continuous journey over 12 months, incorporating Ignite and Spark will develop 3M’s global pipeline of talent while keeping the customer front and center. maternity leave commitment to support greater work-life balance for multiple face-to-face learning opportunities with employees across the company. 15% In 1948, 3M introduced a unique program that quickly became one of the signature elements of the company’s reputation for innovation. The 15% program, which continues today, allows employees to dedicate up to six hours a week to their own promotes our projects, to range beyond the responsibilities of their job, innovation. hatch their own ideas and see what can become of them. The program is a perk that delivers benefits both to the individual and the company. Among other innovations, the company attributes the invention of Post-it® Brand notes to 15% time. 14 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 15 Every employee Our In some cases, the concept of Sustainability at 3M is viewed from afar. In other cases, it’s right out our back door. Take the case of our St. Paul campus honey bee habitat, for example. A dramatic decline in the honey headquarters bee population through the early part of the 21st century has put the world’s food production at risk—since about one-third of all crops are pollinated by honey bees. At campus is 3M, some dedicated employees from the company’s Mindfulness, Meditation and Leadership group have been doing their best to help turn things around for honey bees. They planted bee-friendly flower gardens always buzzing. on campus. And in June 2016, they took another big step, bringing two bee colonies to campus to help pollinate nearby trees and flowers. The colonies have become a hit with employees who walk the campus. As one employee says, “They’re some of the smallest, but hardest working 3Mers yet.” We see through the eyes and minds of children. Child-like curiosity is one of the attributes we take seriously at 3M—and who better to demonstrate this quality than our own children. We featured them in a series of videos that demonstrate how we’re working to address various global challenges. Suffice it to say, when it comes to improving lives, the next generation will be up to the task. See for yourself at: www.3M.com/Sustainability. 16 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 17 Innovating with purpose We collaborate with customers. We innovate with purpose. 3M Innovation About this same time, the 3M Separation and Purification Sciences Division was preparing plans Test Results Sixty days later, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality tested the water in 13 of those to launch a new under sink water system, Filtrete™ homes. Lead levels in all 13 were below the detection Maximum Under Sink Water Filtration System 3USlimit. (Note: Residents of the other homes with the 3M MAX-S01H, offered at Lowe’s and Walmart. Compared system were also happy with the results, but chose not to other water systems offered in the retail market, the to have their water tested.) system is designed to connect to a faucet, filters up to 1,500 gallons of water up to a six-month life, and—most important—could claim a 99.3 percent lead reduction 3Mgives in water that passed through it. Since then, 3M—through 3Mgives—has donated an additional 600 under sink systems and 600 water The 3M team felt this could be a compelling solution filters, a retail value of $72,000, to the United Wayfor the people in Flint and over 2,000 municipalities Genesee County. The local Habitat for Humanity is affected by lead contamination. So they fast-tracked the working with Flint residents in need (e.g. senior citizens, launch of the product and inquired about the possibility poverty-stricken parents) to install these 600 systems in Clear Intentions and Cleaner Water in Flint of donating systems to residents there. After passing a review process that included a donation review board with representatives from the mayor’s office, the the first half of 2017. For the 3Mers who worked on this effort, the Flint Michigan governor’s office, the EPA, Michigan Dept. of program has been a memorable experience; a living Few cities can attest to the importance of clean water disorders, hearing problems and delayed puberty. In Environmental Quality (MDEQ), the local United Way demonstration of 3M Science. Applied to Life.TM like Flint, Michigan. A city of about 100,000 people, 40 pregnant women, it can lead to reduced fetal growth. and local plumbers union, it was agreed that 3M would percent of whom live below the poverty line, Flint made For anyone who’s exposed, it can affect the heart, set up a pilot program in the fall of 2016 to provide national news headlines beginning in 2014 for problems kidneys, and nervous system. systems to residents in around 20 homes in the city. The its residents were having with the city’s water supply. United Way and MDEQ determined residents in need. Inadequate treatment of the water, which came from the In Flint, testing by the U.S. Environmental Protection The local plumber’s union agreed to donate services to The residents of Flint who have Flint River, had resulted in lead from aging service lines Agency (EPA) in 2015 revealed that the water in homes install the systems along with new faucets. And, for the first time in months, residents of those homes were able had the 3M system installed leaching into the water. there carried from 50 to 150 parts per billion (ppb) of lead, up to 10 times more than the 15 ppb action level to use their kitchen faucets, with filtered water flowing, in their homes agree. Said one Lead exposure is not something to be taken lightly. In established by the EPA. a much preferable alternative to using bottled water for everything from cooking to drinking to bathing. resident, “This is a very positive children, it can result in impaired cognition, behavioral thing they’re doing.” 18 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 19 Innovating with purpose We’re up on the roof rethinking solar. A film developed by 3M scientists makes it possible for roof tiles to efficiently transform sunlight into electricity, all while taking on the appearance of classic, residential roof tiles. The key to making this possible: 3M micro louver technology. The technology is like that used in 3M Privacy Filters, which prevent viewers at certain angles from seeing content on a mobile device or computer screen, but allow the user to see everything clearly. From a 90-degree angle, you can clearly see the solar cells on each solar roof tile, but from the ground, the tile appears like an average roofing tile. 3M scientists compare the technology to micro venetian blinds; allowing for efficient conversion of sunlight to energy, while also accommodating different aesthetic Solutions for and architectural styles. Even better? Standard roofing A life without identity often means a life without tiles do not provide a fiscal benefit to a homeowner support—no social security, no health care, and no after installation. Imagine if solar roofs can help power government subsidies. More than 300 million citizens households and even provide energy cost savings. in India know this only too well. This is a group without an Identity any ID documents to prove who they are, which makes it hard to distribute food, health care and farming subsidies to them. For the last two decades, the Indian government has made it a priority to get India’s poorest citizens Crisis access to documented identity and all that comes with High efficiency solar cell it. To this end, the government launched the National ID program to promote paperless identity in 2009. Color louver film When government leaders looked for a partner to work in India with them on this, a 3M India team met the challenge. Tempered glass They started with a fingerprint scanner used in China and adapted it to meet the specific needs in India. The product had to be compatible with smart phones and accurate even when citizens—many of them laborers— have worn fingerprints. They set up a factory in six weeks and started producing the scanner locally. 20 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 21 Innovating with purpose L.A. cools down city’s urban heat island effect. On a sunny afternoon, the typically dark, impermeable technology, are one way Los Angeles contractors are surfaces of urban roofs and pavements can get warm meeting the ordinance requirements. 3M Cool Roofing in the sun and actually heat the air. It’s called the urban Granules reflect sunlight and heat that other shingles heat island effect. Meanwhile, on the same sunny would typically absorb. This helps reduce urban heating afternoon, the air temperature in nearby rural areas tends as well as lower energy consumption in climates with Disposable Respirator to be cooler—because rural surfaces are more reflective year-round cooling needs—like Los Angeles. Many of and permeable. the shingles that contain 3M Cool Roofing Granules meet Energy Star requirements, making them one of the Urban heat islands (“UHIs”) can increase energy use, premiere choices for green building. Stockpile Maintenance Program degrade air quality, and aggravate heat-related illnesses in cities. In addition, there is concern about UHIs contributing to climate change. These issues led Los Angeles which has the highest UHI effect in California, to create an ordinance that mandates Cool roofs Managing inventories of personal protective equipment Elements of the program include: a rebate on purchases reduce electricity bills “cool roofs” for all new residential construction projects. (PPE) for a major health care enterprise or government made to replenish preparedness inventory; information 3MTM Cool Roofing Granules, based on a patented 3M and help protect lives. organization is a complex, time-consuming, and about product recycling, disposal options, and product often costly task. 3M, in 2016, took a leadership role donation alternatives; and a customized inventory in helping organizations deal with these issues. Our management tool that provides enterprise-wide, Disposable Respirator Stockpile Maintenance Program real‑time updates of inventory levels and shelf life helps reduce costs—while making sure respirator status at each of an organization’s locations. inventory stays up to date and ready to go when needed. To help organizations with older inventory that needed to be replaced, 3M partnered with a recycler that agreed to take shipments of expired product at no cost. 22 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 23 Innovating with purpose Reducing Healthcare Packaging Footprint Pain Relief for Incontinence Sufferers 3M Healthcare removed the cardboard core in the As our aging population grows, nurses continue to see comfort layer roll of 3M™ Coban™ 2 Layer Compression more instances of tough-to-manage skin breakdown System, a therapeutic compression system used to due to incontinence. So they were thrilled when, in late manage venous leg ulcers, edema, and lymphedema— Net-Zero Energy 2016, 3M introduced revolutionary 3M™ Cavilon™ and reduced the thickness of the product package. These Advanced Skin Protectant, a high endurance skin two steps eliminated over 75,000 pounds of packaging protectant designed to stop, reverse and prevent the per year, or the weight of 18 average passenger cars. damaging effects of moderate to severe Incontinence Associated Dermatitis (IAD). This new product provides 2 steps eliminated clinicians with compelling clinical and infection control benefits, while offering greater comfort and protection 75,000 lbs. to patients, and giving institutions and nurses a more Net-zero buildings produce as much renewable energy “By applying 3M Daylight Redirecting Film, we were economical way to deliver effective, compassionate as they consume. In Evanston, Illinois, you can shop in a able to solve our primary goal of reducing glare on care. What’s more, it provides an effective barrier for brightly lit, energy efficient store—it’s a Walgreens, and our west-facing curtain wall,” says Jason Robbins, up to seven days and wears away naturally. Fewer it’s the chain’s first net-zero energy store. Walgreens Manager of Mechanical Engineering, Walgreens, “while of packaging per year. reapplications are needed, compared to traditional pastes and ointments, and no need for removals means installed 3M’s Daylight Redirecting Film on the store’s west-facing windows; the innovative film is designed to simultaneously saving energy by increasing the area we could use for daylight harvesting.” less potential disruption to fragile skin. diffuse and redirect sunlight up to the ceiling. 24 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 25 Our communities 3M Legal Affairs Pro Bono Work We 3M recognizes the importance of good corporate citizenship and engage supporting the communities in which it does business. A shining example of this is 3M Legal Affairs, which supports pro bono service as a unique community with the service opportunity for legal professionals. Only legal professionals can address the unmet legal needs in the community. By leveraging legal skills and experience, 3M Legal Affairs helps bridge the gap and strengthen both the community and the justice system. In addition, engaging in pro bono service exposes legal professionals to new areas of the law and broadens perspectives while sharpening legal analysis and community. client communication skills. Pro bono services provide volunteers with a special level of personal fulfillment and the opportunity to engage with the community and new colleagues in a meaningful way. All of these benefits enhance 3M Legal Affairs, making it an attractive place to work and develop as legal professionals. 26 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 27 Our communities 3M supports the The Smithsonian National Museum National Museum of African American History & Culture of African American opened on the National Mall in History & Culture. Washington, D.C. in 2016. 3M is proud to be a Cornerstone Donor of the museum, investing more than $5 million to help construct and enhance it, including $1.6 million in 3M products. One of the enhancements: 100 3M touchscreens, positioned throughout the museum that help share American history through the lens of the African American experience. In the “Freedom Now: The Modern Civil Rights Movement 1945-1968” exhibit, for example, 3M touchscreens lead visitors through a question-andanswer application that informs them about the height of segregation, including stories about Freedom Marches and the Montgomery Bus Boycott. In all, the museum counts almost 37,000 artifacts in its extensive collection. Total 3M investment $ 5 million more than 28 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 29 Our communities GlobalGiving In 2016, 3Mgives sponsored the purchase of more than $20,000 in GlobalGiving gift cards which were then handed out at conferences and other events, such as Net Impact and South by Southwest,® allowing recipients to give the gift card amount to a GlobalGiving-approved charity or cause of their choice. GlobalGiving is the first and largest global crowdfunding community that connects nonprofits, donors, and 75 member companies in nearly every country around the world. countries & regions 45+ skills WorldSkills 3M is a Global Industry Partner of WorldSkills Interna™ tional, a not-for-profit movement that brings together industry, government, organizations, and institutions, to promote the benefits of and need for skilled trade Partnerships ­professionals through grassroots community projects, skill competitions, and knowledge exchange. WorldSkills represents more than 45 skills in 75 member countries and regions, all working together to help prepare the 20,000 workforce and talent of today for the jobs of the future. $ 5 in GlobalGiving years Global Industry Partner Gift Cards WorldSkills™ International 30 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 31 Setting ambitious goals 3M and the United We are setting Nations Sustainable ambitious Renewable Development Goals Energy Boost goals. 3M took significant steps in 2016 toward accomplishing its goal of increasing renewable energy to 25 percent of total electricity use by 2025. At 3M, the Sustainability goals we’ve set for 2025 are framed around global challenges. This is apparent when one considers how well our goals align with the goals the United Nations released in their In Texas, the company signed an agreement to 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in 2015. purchase 120 MW of wind energy from Invenergy, Sustainability is nothing new at 3M. a leading worldwide supplier of renewable power. The U.N. created 17 Sustainable Development Goals The agreement includes the sale of wind energy (SDGs) designed to build upon the historic work of the from the Gunsight Wind Energy Center, to help Millennium Development Goals, and stimulate important support our operations across North America. action in three dimensions of sustainable development: economic, social, and environmental. It is a journey that we have been on, arguably, This is unparalleled early leadership. And 3M has Meanwhile, on the other side of the globe, the since the company began. As early as 1932, 3M continued to show leadership and results around 3M plant in Ranjangaon, India recently began To learn how our goals at 3M are #improvinglives in began providing short-term and long-term disability Sustainability, setting aggressive goals for own producing renewable energy after converting an accordance with, and in support of, the 2030 SDGs be coverage and a pension plan for employees. In the operations to be achieved by 2025. The 2025 goals unused 10,000 square meter rooftop to a solar sure to visit www.3m.com/sustainability. early 1950s, we formed the 3M Foundation and range from investing in sustainable suppliers, materials power generation installation. More than 1,500 established the employee safety department. And of and energy efficiency to community-wide approaches, solar panel modules were installed on the rooftop, course, the Pollution Prevention Pays program which water management, zero landfill status, and helping capable of generating 14,000 MWH of electricity was started at 3M in 1975, fundamentally changed the our customers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and saving $1.3 million over the projected 20-year way governments and companies across the globe through the use of our products. 3M has also set goals life of the modules. The system also includes a think about waste and pollution. to build an even more diverse workforce and educate provision to feed energy to the India power grid individuals on worker and patient safety in health care when not needed in-house. and industrial settings. 32 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 33 Our Every Life Ambition | Our Every Life Ambition Introduction 36 Global Challenges 38 Materiality 40 2025 Goals 46 34 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 35 Our Every Life Ambition | Introduction Introduction We are committed to improving our business, our planet, and every life. Sustaining our business, and our planet, means We aim to help make that world a reality. Improving protecting natural resources and empowering individuals every life is an exciting endeavor and our purpose. and communities throughout the world to encourage progress. And above all else, it means uniting under a This is the continued story of our purpose: common goal: improve every life. #improvinglives. Imagine a world where every life is improved—where natural resources are reliably available, people have access to education and opportunity, and communities are safe, healthy, connected and thriving. 36 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 37 Our Every Life Ambition | Global Challenges Global Challenges 2.5 percent of our total global water supply. A majority of freshwater is used for irrigation purposes, but nearly Health and Safety 30 percent of it is used for domestic consumption and Global health and safety issues are industrial functions. Aging infrastructure and increased prevalent in workplaces around the world. demand places a premium on clean, accessible water for Food poisoning and water-borne illnesses 3M, our customers and communities around the world. lead to the deaths of three million people across the globe each year. At the same Some of our customers are finding it difficult to source time, approximately one of every 20 hospitalized or deliver clean, accessible water. We can help them patients in lowand middleincome countries will solve this problem by developing technology that At 3M, we look at Sustainability in terms of shared increases water efficiencies and improves quality. contract an infection while under medical care. Governments, corporations and consumers are global needs and the future of our business. driving global demand for safety, protection, healthClimate and Energy care and food safety solutions. Creative innovation, technology, education and collaboration are all critical Access to a dependable energy supply if we are to tackle these human health and workplace directly affects all businesses and commusafety concerns. nities. Energy usage and climate concerns G4 As the population grows, particularly in materials to renewable products. Companies that require systematic change, and we’re here For decades, 3M has had entire business divisions SD emerging economies, challenges like energy address this issue not only help the planet, but they to drive that forward. From air emissions focused on creating products and services for human 2, 14 availability and security, raw material scarcity, also gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. to fossil fuels, 3M takes a proactive and collaborative health, protection, security and safety. At the same human health and safety, education, and development approach to addressing energy demand and climate time, the company has embraced this commitment in must be addressed to assure people across the globe 3M has worked on this challenge for decades and change—in our operations and for our customers. We its own operations. can lead healthy, fulfilling lives. We recognize that our will continue to innovate into the future, developing partner with our customers to understand their needs impact includes that of our own operations as well as the renewable alternatives for impacted resources, and address those needs. The issues around effective far greater impacts we can make through our efforts in ­revolutionizing recyclable materials and becoming more sustainable. use of energy resources and climate change are complex Education and Development local communities and for our customers through the and interconnected. products we offer. Global unemployment rates are expected At 3M, we are focused on seeking solutions that to remain steady through 2017, particuWater promote energy conservation, clean energy infrastruclarly among youth. Today’s job market has Raw Materials People consume it, farm with it and manuture, and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. We already have several products and technologies that fewer opportunities, with most available jobs too specialized for young people facture products with it. Reducing water reduce the impact of energy use, promote energy and recent graduates. As a technology company, 3M The world’s population is growing larger, consumption and improving water quality efficiency, and help our customers reduce their green­recognizes the importance of well-trained science, living longer—and consuming more. With are important elements of environmental house gas emissions. Our goal is to continue developing ­technology, engineering and math (STEM) graduates— this increased pressure on our finite stewardship. and implementing global concepts for the greatest we need young minds to step into specialized roles and natural resources and materials, we must long-term impact. help our company solve future challenges. move beyond low-cost, recyclable Water is our world’s most valuable natural resource. Despite water’s prevalence, freshwater makes up only 38 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 39 Our Every Life Ambition | Materiality Materiality Our Commitment Data provided in our Sustainability Report includes information on issues that were found through the materiality assessment to have the highest potential to impact our G4 At 3M, we look at Sustainability in terms of reputation and that are of great importance to internal SD 20-21, 48 shared global needs and the future of our and external stakeholders. Because we are a diversified business. As the population grows, particularly company, several other environmental-related topics in emerging economies, challenges like energy availability and performance indicators relevant to various sectors and security, raw material scarcity, human health and of the company are also included in the report. 3M’s safety, education, and employment must be addressed Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) reviews and approves to assure people across the globe can lead healthy, our Sustainability Report. fulfilling lives. Our 2025 Sustainability Goals were developed from our For this reason, our materiality assessment is a vital 2014 materiality assessment. component of our Sustainability strategy and reporting, whether the issues are a result of our own activities or our business relationships and is based on a robust, ­stakeholder-driven approach. By understanding the critical issues from both internal and external perspectives, we can deepen our social license to operate and develop corporate strategy, goals, targets, programs, initiatives and a stakeholder engagement strategy to advance Sustainability globally. 40 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 41 Our Every Life Ambition | Materiality Our Actions Materiality with respect to Sustainability reporting, as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, includes topics and indicators that reflect the 3M Materiality Tiers Stakeholders increasingly expect companies organization’s significant economic, environmental, Tiers 2014 2016 G4 SD 2, 18-19, 27 to do things that benefit society in more direct and social impacts or would substantively influence ways and are not solely focused on benefits to the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. Energy use Energy use the company. That is why we made such an active effort 1 Community safety and health Community safety and health to involve stakeholders when we developed our newest The Sustainability materiality assessment conducted set of Sustainability Goals. These goals go well beyond by GlobeScan determined the material aspects for a Reducing waste Water quality advancing our environmental stewardship efforts. Our wide range of 3M stakeholders outside of 3M, encomTier 1 issues are highest priority to address. Of these, 3M should Reducing toxic substances Working conditions goals focus on Raw Materials, Water, Climate and Energy, passing geography, stakeholder type, and function. Health and Safety and Education and Development. actively manage issues that have Water shortages Ethical business All material aspects defined within this report are the highest degree of 3M control Water quality Scarcity of raw materials We set these goals with the perspective that we have deemed material for all entities within the 3M organiaccording to stakeholders. to be successful as a company while also supporting zation. The prioritization for the different aspects may Working conditions Human rights the communities where we operate. It’s a two-pronged vary within 3M operations and geographies, but they Ethical business Climate change approach that is both practical and thoughtful—and are still material. Air quality filled with the integrity 3M is known for. Transparency Our view of Sustainability is about finding those 3M Materiality Aspect Categories: intersections where our goals move us forward toward Availability of products and services Availability of products and services growth while supporting the company Vision to Raw Materials 2 with sustainability attributes with sustainability attributes advance, enhance and improve. Air quality Treatment of workers Sustainability at 3M also includes collaborating to find Tier 2 issues are areas in which Climate change Reducing toxic substances better solutions for customers. The way we see it, global Water 3M is expected to act, but that challenges must be addressed together to assure we are perceived as less urgent. Human rights Water shortages can all live healthy, fulfilling lives. That’s why we are Treatment of workers Reducing waste from operations committed to partnering with customers to identify and Climate and Energy Transparency Food safety* collaborate on solutions to help them address their goals. Scarcity of raw materials Health and Safety Human health Materiality—past, present and future 3 Engagement with citizens on Engagement with citizens on Education and Development sustainable behavior sustainable behavior In 2014 and 2016, 3M commissioned GlobeScan, an Tier 3 issues are perceived as least Employment Employment independent research consultancy, to assist us in better understanding our stakeholders’ perspectives of key urgent for 3M to address, but are Advocating laws supporting Advocating laws supporting Governance and Ethics still material and often still drivers social and environmental issues, as well as assessing sustainability sustainability 3M’s corporate reputation and leadership opportunities of our overall reputation. in the area of Sustainability. Supporting community building Supporting community building Human health One result of this work is our evidence-based Sustainability materiality matrix. From this matrix, 3M and Workplace diversity* the readers of this report can understand the degree Improving access to education* of importance our stakeholders place on each issue, Responding to natural disasters* the ability of 3M to make a positive difference on the issue, and the level of impact an issue may have on our reputation. *New attributes added in 2016 42 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 43 Our Every Life Ambition | Materiality Materiality results from 2014 and 2016 show similar issue tiers, but some shifts in importance for stakeare considered an area to leverage in terms of management of human rights. Looking forward… conditions throughout our supply chain. We will do our part to assure that 3M business partners follow ethical holders. For example: 3M will continue to work hard on the four issues that are business practices and that a strong business conduct In this context, community safety and health has and compliance system is in place at 3M. We will look most material to the company and perceived to be most Transparency has moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority, become the greatest potential influencer of 3M’s reputato develop products that enable customers to improve within our control: working conditions, ethical business, suggesting that transparency is increasingly important tion, followed by a related issue: supporting community water quality, and modify operations, as necessary, to water quality and transparency. in a global, interconnected world. Scarcity of raw building. In other words, there is great opportunity to reduce water discharges. Throughout, we will work to materials, air quality, and climate change have also make an impact in the areas where 3M products are More specifically, we will focus on developing be transparent in communicating about 3M products moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority, joining existing made and people live. products that enable safer and healthier workplaces and business practices. environmental issues such as energy use and water for customers, and assuring safe and healthy working quality, and further supporting the notion that these It should be noted that none of the issues added to issues would benefit from holistic management. Human the study in 2016—food safety, workplace diversity, rights has also moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority. This improving access to education, and responding to issue is also linked with working conditions which are natural disasters—were found to be a Tier 1 priority. perceived to be within 3M’s realm of control, and thus 3M Sustainability Materiality Matrix 2014 3M Sustainability Materiality Matrix 2016 View of Customers, External and Internal Stakeholders View of Customers, External and Internal Stakeholders Perceived ability of 3M to Perceived ability of 3M to 2014 make a positive difference Community 2016 make a positive difference Water Quality Low High Safety and Health Low High Supporting community building Water Scarcity shortages Community Air quality safety and of raw Working health materials conditions Climate change Improving Ethical Impact on 3M Reputation Impact on 3M Reputation Energy use access to Human business Availability education rights Water quality Supporting of products Reducing waste community Working Air quality and services with Reducing toxic building sustainability attributes conditions Responding Transparency substances Food safety to natural Climate change disasters Availability Human of products and Energy use Scarcity of Ethical Employment services Employment raw materials rights business with Workplace sustainability diversity Reducing Engagement Treatment attributes toxic Transparency with citizens on of workers substances sustainable Engagement with citizens Treatment behavior on sustainable behavior of Workers Human health Water Reducing Waste Shortages Human health from operations Advocating Advocating laws supporting laws supporting sustainability sustainability Importance to Stakeholders Importance to Stakeholders 44 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 45 Our Every Life Ambition | 2025 Goals 2025 Goals Invest Invest to develop more sustainable materials and products to help our customers reach their environmental goals. Achieve global zero landfill status at more than 30% of manufacturing sites. We have been setting global environmental goals at When we set these goals, we said they were challenging, Reduce global manufacturing waste 10% 3M since 1990. A strong part of our company history, and we didn’t know how we would achieve each of these goals have helped dramatically reduce our own them. And to date, our data related to our progress has Reduce manufacturing waste environmental footprint and established us as a leader in not been what we’d like. But it’s only year one—and by an additional 10%, indexed environmental stewardship. there are 91,600 of us here who love a challenge. to sales. Instead of scaling back our expectations, we plan to In 2016, we entered the first year of an ambitious new double down, to apply our science, to innovate new ten-year goal cycle. The 2025 Sustainability Goals we systems and solutions, and to continue to raise the bar are now pursuing reflect a heightened commitment for Sustainability. to going beyond compliance and thinking holistically about how our operations and products affect the Our customers, and the communities in which we Supply Chain world and every life in it. We see the opportunity, in the operate, deserve it. Our people are motivated by it. next decade, to create systemic change that addresses Our future will be all the better for it. Drive supply chain Sustainability global Sustainability challenges involving raw materials, through targeted raw material water, climate and energy, health and safety, as well as traceability and supplier education and development. performance assurance. 46 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 47 Our Every Life Ambition | 2025 Goals Reduce global water use Improve energy efficiency 10% Reduce global water use by an additional 10%, indexed to sales. 30% Improve energy efficiency indexed to net sales by 30%. Engage Communities Invest Cash Engage 100% of water-stressed/ and Products Increase renewable energy 25% water scarce communities Increase renewable where 3M manufactures on Invest cash and products for energy to 25% of total community-wide approaches to education, community and electricity use. water management. environmental programs. 100% participation in programs 100% participation in employee development programs to advance GHG emissions 50% Ensure GHG emissions at least 50% below our 2002 baseline while growing our business. individual and organizational capabilities. below our 2002 baseline Help our customers reduce Double the pipeline Provide training to Help our customers reduce their 5 250 GHGs by 250 million tons of CO2 GHGs of diverse talent in management million people globally equivalent emissions through use of 3M products. to build a diverse workforce. on worker and patient safety. million tons 48 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 49 Who We Are | Who Introduction 52 Our Corporate Values and Vision 56 Communities 58 66 We Are Engaging Our Stakeholders Diversity and Inclusion 70 50 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 51 Who We Are | Introduction Our Awards “At 3M, it’s not enough to just win in business— it matters how you do it. Customers want to do business with companies they can trust, and achieving that trust requires the help of all employees. I’m proud to say our people live 3M’s Code of Conduct every day by making ethical decisions and speaking up if they aren’t sure what to do. ” For the 17th consecutive year, 3M was selected as a Kristen Ludgate, 3M’s Vice President, Associate member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, a global General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer Introduction stock index that recognizes and tracks the performance of leading Sustainability-driven companies worldwide. One of the most highly regarded rankings in terms of Sustainability performance, this index is created by Top Product of the Year Award research analysts who perform an in-depth study of 3M Health Care also won a Top Product of the Year environmental, social and economic performance. Award in 2016 at the Environmental Leader 2016 Conference in Denver, for 3M™ Petrifilm™ Plates. Compared to traditional agar test methods, 3M Petrifilm Plates offer users up to a 66 percent reduction in waste, use up to 76 percent less energy, up to 79 percent less water, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions up to Who We Are 75 percent. Scores for the award were determined by a panel of experts in environmental and Sustainability management. EcoVadis awarded 3M a Gold Recognition Level for achievements in the top one percent of Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical A sense of purpose is at the heart of how we approach Companies® Honoree are educated and encouraged to “think sustainably”—at suppliers assessed in corporate social responsibility every business, every idea, every product, every life home, at work and everywhere in between. Improving (CSR) in global Supply Chains. and every community we touch. It is the foundation of lives and making the world a better place is more than a all that follows. frequent conversation, it’s become an expectation. It’s even become a selling point for current and potential 3M employees. Research has shown that Sustainability, Who we are. and “making a difference in the world,” is one of the top areas of interest for 3M employees. This has led us 3M employees are empowered and encouraged to to develop messages against these insights as part of The World’s Most Ethical Companies® program, pursue purpose-driven innovation. global internal communications campaigns. In late 2016, managed by the Ethisphere® Institute, honors companies for example, a global campaign led by our 3M Human that excel in “promoting ethical business standards and Working in a highly collaborative environment, our Resource function asked each employee to do “one practices internally, enabling managers and employees scientists use 46 core technology platforms, ranging simple thing to improve lives.” We consider this opporFor the second consecutive year, Practice Greenhealth, to make good choices, and shaping future industry from adhesives and abrasives, to sensors and electronics tunity for impact a critical part of current employee a leader in promoting environmental stewardship, standards by introducing tomorrow’s best practices materials. They leverage these technologies to invent retention, but also part of our brand for attracting new presented a “Champion for Change” Award to 3M today.” According to the Institute, honorees have also unique, customer-inspired products that are marketed employees. It sends a compelling message to both Health Care for the company’s success in achieving historically out-performed other companies from a through our five business groups. groups, particularly when 3M is a company uniquely environmental targets and for helping customers financial perspective, supporting the notion that sound positioned to change the world. improve their environmental performance. ethical practices are appreciated in the competitive Sustainability also permeates our culture. It is formally marketplace. This year’s honorees spanned 19 countries included in our leadership behaviors and our annual and five continents. It was the fourth consecutive year performance review process. What’s more, employees 3M made the list. 52 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 53 Who We Are | Awards 3M Brazil: Pró Ética Certification Award 100 percent and, along with it, the distinction of being Other Featured 3M Costa Rica is ranked #28 for the country and • named among the “Best Places to Work for LGBT #57 for the Central American region Awards For the third year, 3M Brazil was recognized by the Equality.” • 3M Nicaragua is ranked #8 for the country and Brazilian Government with the Pró Ética Certifica#44 for the Central American region tion Award. The award, the first of its kind in Latin America, was created to promote ethics and encourage Best DEI Places to Work • 3M Guatemala is ranked #28 for the country and companies to take voluntary steps to prevent corrupIn the second annual Disability Equality Index® (DEI®) The Top Ten Most Innovative #40 for the Central American region tion, creating a more ethical, transparent and honest survey, 3M ranked among the top-scoring companies Companies • 3M El Salvador is ranked #12 for the country and business environment. 3M Brazil was recognized for top #43 for the Central American region with a 90 percent score. management’s commitment to ethics, their policies and 3M has been named one of the top ten most innovative • 3M Honduras is ranked #19 for the country and procedures and their risk monitoring and analysis. companies in the world, ranked #3 by Strategy and Price #48 for the Central American region 2020 Women on Boards Winner Waterhouse Coopers. • 3M Panama is ranked #28 for the country and 3M was named a “V” company, with 17 percent of #53 for the Central American region women on the board, by this organization whose goal is Newsweek Global Green Rankings • 3M Ireland is ranked #3 to increase the percentage of women on U.S. company 3M ranked in Newsweek global 2016 Green Rankings • 3M Portugal is ranked #11 boards to 20 percent or greater by the year 2020. report recognizing the greenest companies in the • 3M Italy is ranked #11 For 30 years, the Catalyst Award has been a prestigious world. In the industrial category, 3M ranked 16th among honor presented to select companies that distinguish Companies Where Top Millennials Most companies in the U.S. and 21st worldwide. • 3M UAE is ranked #13 themselves in accelerating progress for women in the Want to Work workplace. 3M is one of three 2017 winners of this National Society of High School Scholars (NSHSS) 9th Great Places to Work® 3M Employee Recognition: award, based on a rigorous assessment conducted by Catalyst Inc., which cited the company’s “I’m In. Annual Career Survey, conducted by Hanover Research The following countries and areas were ranked by Great • Diversity Journal, Women Worth Watching Accelerating Women’s Leadership” initiative, leadership identified 3M as the #1 most dream company to work Places to Work® and awarded as a best place to work Award®: Tamie Minami (2016) development platforms, workplace flexibility, mentoring for among respondents in 2016. in 2016: • Savoy Magazine’s “2016 Top Influential Women in programs, and external community efforts on behalf of Corporate America”: Kim Price and Cindy Kent women. 3M Chairman, President and CEO Inge Thulin • 3M Brazil is ranked #38 Inge Thulin receives Ethical • 2016 Global Women’s Envoy, National accepted the award in New York in March. The other • 3M Canada is ranked #35 two winners were Rockwell Automation and BMO Leadership Award Association for Female Executives, Marlene • 3M Greece is ranked #9 McGrath Financial Group. In April, 2016, 3M Chairman, President and CEO Inge • 3M Poland is ranked #15 Thulin was awarded the 2016 Hendrickson Medal for • Montana State University honorary doctorate in • 3M Central America is ranked a Best engineering: Jean Bennington Sweeney Forbes’ list of “The World’s Most Ethical Leadership, sponsored by St. Mary’s University Multinational of Central America #29 of Minnesota. The Hendrickson Medal honors an indiReputable Companies” for 2017 vidual who, through his or her work, has demonstrated 3M has been named to Forbes’ list of “The World’s Most the principles of ethical leadership. According to the Reputable Companies” for 2017, which highlights the university’s press release, Thulin has been an exceptional top 100 most reputable companies based on feedback leader for 3M and the community, for, among other collected in Q1 from approximately 170,000 consumers things, strengthening 3M’s commitment to Sustainability around the world who are familiar with the companies. and ethical business practices. 3M ranked 22nd on this year’s list—climbing eight spots from 30th place in 2016. Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2016 Corporate Equality Index is the national benchmarking tool on corporate policies and practices pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees. For the sixth straight year, 3M earned a perfect score of 54 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 55 Who We Are | Our Values Our Corporate Values and Vision Our Values Our Vision 3M’s actions are guided by our corporate vision and values of uncompromising honesty and integrity. We 3M continues to be inspired and motivated by our are proud to be recognized worldwide as an ethical and corporate vision: law-abiding company. As a company, we are committed to sustainable development through environmental 3M Technology Advancing Every Company protection, social responsibility and economic success. 3M Products Enhancing Every Home 3M Innovation Improving Every Life Our guiding values include: • Act with uncompromising honesty and integrity in everything we do. Our Vision helps define what we do, how we do it, and • Satisfy our customers with innovative technology where we do it. At the same time, it establishes a stretch and superior quality, value and service. goal for all employees at 3M. And it captures what differentiates us from competitors as an enterprise. • Provide our investors an attractive return through sustainable, global growth. What we do and have done for 114 years is advancing, • Respect our social and physical environment enhancing, and improving. How we have done it, and around the world. continue to do it, is through technologies, products, and innovation. Where we do it is for every company, in • Value and develop our employees’ diverse every home and for every life all around the world. talents, initiative and leadership. • Earn the admiration of all those associated with In short, this vision serves as a daily reminder to all of us 3M worldwide. of what the 3M brand stands for. 56 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 57 Who We Are | Communities Communities Our Commitment 3Mgives strategy focuses on three important areas. Through 3Mgives, we make a Education: 3Mgives supports initiatives that increase student interest and achievement in science, technology, positive impact on our world. engineering and mathematics (STEM) and business to help build a diverse pipeline of global talent. G4 3Mgives helps build sustainable communities EC 7-8 through strategic investments, business Community: 3Mgives enhances community vibrancy expertise and the thoughtful engagement of by assuring access to basic needs, preparing youth 3Mers worldwide, who volunteer and leverage their for life-long success, increasing access to quality and knowledge and experience to make a difference. The diverse arts opportunities and contributing to global impact of these actions is because of our collaboration humanitarian relief efforts. with partner organizations that have a proven track record for delivering results. Environment: 3Mgives invests in programs promoting Sustainability and environmental stewardship in the As the social investment arm of 3M, 3Mgives is communities where 3M employees work and live. governed by the 3M Foundation Board of Directors and the Corporate Contributions Committee comprised of senior level executives in the company. The 3M Foundation Board of Directors guides our social investment strategy by identifying areas of focus, allocating budget and providing high-level strategic advice for implementation by 3Mgives staff. 58 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 59 Who We Are | Communities DonorsChoose.org that could solve an everyday problem. After all videos have been judged, ten finalists are given an opportunity Community 2025 Goal: Invest cash and products for education, community and environmental programs. 3M partners with DonorsChoose.org to broaden the to participate in a summer mentorship program with 3M 3M strives to build and maintain trust and reputation company’s support of STEM projects in classrooms scientists, and travel to 3M headquarters to compete in in the places where 3M does business by contributing across the country. Today, 3M’s U.S. locations invest the final event. to the development of sustainable communities. 3M We will continue to invest in increasing access for more than $500,000 annually in classroom projects contributes to communities through support of the led by teachers. In 2016, 3M investments reached 560 See the winning 2016 video from Maanasa Mendu, an people worldwide to achieve greater skills in STEM and arts, youth development, and basic needs and provides schools, 771 projects and more than 87,000 students in eighth grader from Mason, Ohio. business, and to improving lives through investments in humanitarian aid in times of need. These efforts help environment, health and safety programs. Cash, in-kind support of STEM projects that enhanced learning. assure our communities are attractive places to live donations, sponsorships, and volunteerism will remain 3M Visiting Wizards and work. core to our 3Mgives strategy. Since 1953, we have Frontline Sales Initiative invested $1.45 billion in cash and product donations in 3M Visiting Wizards encourage young people globally 3M communities. During the summer of 2016, 35 students from 17 in grades 1-6 to become interested in science and techHumanitarian Aid universities across the U.S. participated in the 3M nology by providing interesting science demonstrations 3M enhances community vibrancy by supporting Frontline sales and marketing internship program. Their and hands-on experiments on a variety of topics, such individuals and families affected by global crises. We as the properties of light and color, cryogenics, microbiOur Actions itinerary included a two-week introduction to 3M, eight strive to help meet the immediate needs of those weeks in the field selling 3M products for one of 14 3M ology, thermodynamics and electricity, all courtesy of a impacted, and to assure all those affected by a natural businesses, and a one-week review of their experience. group of 3M volunteers. disaster receive the care necessary to re-establish At the end of the program, Frontline students are often ­self‑sufficiency. We engage our most valuable assets— This kind of exposure at an early age helps students Education offered and accept jobs with 3M. understand how science impacts everyday life, and our people and our products—to help people get back encourages young people to become interested in on their feet. In 2016, 3M and 3Mers invested more than As a company that has thrived on applying science to STEM. $1 million in cash and products to support communities life, we understand the importance of inspiring the next in crisis—including investments in the U.S., Canada, generation of scientists, innovators and inventors. Our In 2016, more than 28,000 students attended a Ecuador, Haiti and Japan. educational investments, through 3Mgives, support our Visiting Wizards demonstration. More than 800,000 brand promise by investing in initiatives that help young have participated in presentations since the program’s people understand how science impacts their daily lives inception in 1985. and encourages and supports interest in STEM. Our goals: 1) to increase student interest and achievement See a typical Visiting Wizards demonstration: In the Lab in STEM and business, especially in underrepresented with 3M 4Kids: Magnets. populations, 2) to build a diverse pipeline of global talent and 3) to increase access to quality education for all Higher Education communities and to improve education outcomes. As a science company, 3M recognizes the importance Frontline Sales Initiative of building a strong and diverse pipeline of global talent WorldSkills in STEM and business disciplines. Therefore, we partner with relevant vocational schools, colleges and universi3M is a Global Industry Partner of WorldSkills InternaYoung Scientist Challenge ties to support post-secondary programs that effectively tional, a not-for-profit movement that brings together industry, government, organizations and institutions, The Discovery Education 3M Young Scientist Challenge attract, retain and graduate students. to promote the benefits of and need for skilled trade is the United States’ premier science competition for In addition to providing student support, for more than professionals through grassroots community projects, grades 5-8, launched in 1999 by Discovery Communica25 years, 3M technical leaders have directed financial skill competitions and knowledge exchange. Based in tions and co-sponsored by 3M since 2008. Its mission: support to promising academic leaders to support the Spain, WorldSkills represents more than 45 skills in 75 to cultivate the next generation of American scientists at advancement of research and teaching in relevant STEM member countries and regions, all working together to an age when interest in science often declines. and business fields. In 2016, 3M invested $810,000 to help prepare the workforce and talent of today for the Through the years, the one-of-a-kind competition has 54 non-tenured faculty members. jobs of the future. sparked the imaginations of students and enhanced science exploration, innovation and communication across the United States. Students are invited to create a 1-2 minute video describing a new, innovative solution Product Donations for Haiti 60 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 61 Who We Are | Communities Throughout the year, the 3Mgives Volunteer Match the earthquakes in Japan and Ecuador, 3M matched Closed Loop Fund encourages volunteerism by donating to schools and employee contributions through key partners, like Cities across the U.S. spend billions of dollars sending organizations where 3Mers and alumni volunteer their GlobalGiving.org and American Red Cross, to inspire recyclable materials to landfills. The Closed Loop Fund time. Since 2000, in the U.S., 3Mgives has provided 3Mers to double their impact in those affected (CLF) is a collaborative social impact fund that gives more than $6.36 million on behalf of over 28,000 voluncommunities. cities access to capital needed to build comprehensive teers to more than 3,000 organizations in 50 states. recycling programs. At the same time, it gives companies Dorothy Day Center like 3M access to an important supply of recycled materials for use in packaging. 3M’s $5 million commitThe Dorothy Day Center transforms lives for under­ ment to the CLF has already helped fund 12 projects served individuals in St. Paul, Minnesota, providing that have improved recycling access and diversion meals, mental health services, medical care, showers, for 4.1 million households, and provided $17 million and emergency shelter for people experiencing homein economic benefit to participating municipalities. lessness. In 2016, 3M committed $1 million worth of This partnership is one of 3M’s innovative approaches NMAAHC cash and products to the Dorothy Day Center—a to strategic social investing. It is the company’s first two-building campus designed to prevent and end program-related investment (PRI) that will be paid back homelessness with emergency shelter, supportive to the Closed Loop Foundation to recycle funds back Smithsonian National Museum of services, access to resources and permanent into the community in the future. African American History & Culture supportive housing. This project is based on models that have shown documented success in moving The Nature Conservancy The National Museum of African American History & those individuals most in need along the continuum 3M has joined The Nature Conservancy in transforming Culture (NMAAHC), located on the National Mall in from crisis to stability to self-sufficiency. It’s a prime how forest resources are managed in Canada’s Boreal Washington, D.C., commemorates the African American Hong Kong, 3M Global Volunteer Day example of an innovative investment in the 3M headForest, which occupies 55 percent of the land in experience as seen through the eyes of those who quarters community. Canada. This project is a model for the sustainable lived it. Established by an Act of Congress in 2003, supply of economically viable fiber, while also providing the NMAAHC counts almost 37,000 artifacts in its jobs for local communities. In addition, it helps extensive collection. Local Community Engagement protect natural and high conservation value forests 3M is proud to be a cornerstone donor to this important G4 3M partners with nonprofit organizations and peatlands, along with the threatened species institution, which opened to the public in September SO at headquarters and plant locations around that depend on them, while respecting the rights of 2016. We are equally pleased that 100 3M touchscreens 1 the world. In 2016, this included a $100,000 Indigenous peoples and enhancing their role in direct throughout the museum help guide visitors through investment in Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin Public management and decision-making. This new paradigm the exhibits. In the “Freedom Now: The Modern Civil Library as a part of the “Ready, Set, Grow” capital in Indigenous management of natural resources will Rights Movement 1945-1968” exhibit, 3M touchcampaign—assuring the development of STEM create an unprecedented and globally significant screens lead visitors through an interactive question education efforts for generations to come. A similar network of conservation areas, a future of healthy and and answer program that informs visitors about segregainvestment was made in Decatur, Alabama for the self-sustaining woodland caribou herds, and the largest tion, including stories about Freedom Marches and the Cook Museum of Natural Science—building an Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified forest tenure ­Montgomery Bus Boycott. opportunity to provide children in the region with in North America. ongoing positive perceptions of science and math in nature. 3M also invested internationally—establishing 3M Volunteers and Global Costa Rica, 3M Global Volunteer Day Looking forward… meaningful partnerships through the 3M International Volunteer Day Giving Fund in China, Morocco, Costa Rica, and Collaborative Community Engagement Benelux, among other locations. Based on input from global 3Mers, 3Mgives is evolving In September 2016, 3M marked its third annual Global our approach to engaging our most impactful asset— Volunteer Day in 3M communities around the world. 3M partners with innovative nonprofit partners like our people. 3Mgives is launching a new volunteer For example, more than 100 3M volunteers from the company’s service center in San Jose, Costa Rica GlobalGiving.org to crowdsource investment decisions from key stakeholders, including both customers and Environment technology platform in 2017 to respond to 3Mers’ desire for more opportunities to support local organizations created a playground for students at a local school. In 3Mers. For example, 3M empowered attendees at the through volunteerism. In addition, 3Mgives continues to G4 3M invests in initiatives that foster sustainable Hong Kong and Singapore, volunteers delivered baskets of 3M home and health care products to families in South by Southwest™ Music Festival and the Net Impact EN communities. This includes projects that build programs that will leverage 3Mers’ skills and techConference to direct corporate contributions to global 13 protect threatened ecosystems, support local nologies to address some of the world’s most pressing need. In France, volunteers created a therapeutic garden nonprofits aligned to 3M Sustainability priorities. In problems. For example, 3Mgives’ newest volunteer economies, enhance livelihoods and promote sciencefor retirement home residents. response to the devastation of Hurricane Matthew and program, 3M Impact, will deploy some of 3M’s talented based environmental education. 62 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 63 Who We Are | Communities and engaged employees to global markets to work with of the opportunities available in manufacturing, and community partnerships focused on improving lives. 3M will partner with technical schools and community colleges to develop curriculum and internships. Our In 2017, 3Mgives will also expand its focus on STEM goal is to increase the pipeline of manufacturing talent, education to develop specific programs relating particularly veterans and groups underrepresented in the to advanced manufacturing skills positions. These manufacturing industry. programs will increase high school student awareness G4 EC 7 2016 Giving by Focus Area Cash In-Kind Total % Volunteer Hours Education $16,000,000 $8,480,000 $24,500,000 36.6% 74,400 Community $16,200,000 $24,000,000 $40,200,000 59.5% 265,000 Environment $2,540,000 $61,000 $2,600,000 3.90% 8,450 Total $34,800,000 $32,500,000 $67,300,000 100% 348,000 Values presented in this table represent the most current values, in $USD, but are still subject to change. #improvinglives means enabling better 2016 Global Giving by Region patient outcomes, lifelong oral health Charitable Corporate Cash Donations (USD) Charitable Foundation Cash Donations (USD) In-Kind Donations (USD) Total Donations (USD) and a safer food supply. Asia Pacific 269,000 450,000 2,330,000 3,040,000 Our innovative solutions help customers, from hospitals and clinics, to food and pharma companies, improve sustainability and patient health. Canada 1,180,000 197,000 583,000 1,960,000 Europe/Middle East/Africa 617,000 80,000 109,000 806,000 Latin America 882,000 0 674,000 1,560,000 United States 12,600,000 18,400,000 28,800,000 59,900,000 Total 15,600,000 19,200,000 32,500,000 67,300,000 Values presented in this table represent the most current values, but are still subject to change. Health Care 64 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 65 Who We Are | Engaging Our Stakeholders Engaging Our Stakeholders agencies, industry organizations, subject-matter See how our stakeholder-driven approach to experts and academia, non-government organizations, sustainability materiality serves as a foundation other corporations and more. for our sustainability strategy and reporting. It is through collaboration and partnerships that 3M can accelerate sustainability in our company and in the world. We value our partnerships with numerous G4 Stakeholder engagement can help guide stakeholders as a way to not only address our sustainSD 15-16 companies on doing business the right way. It ability issues, but to help our partners address their can also have a direct impact on a company’s sustainability challenges. 3M has joined numerous financial success (sales, share price and investments), on organizations globally to advance sustainability its operations, and on its reputation. 3M has created a through collaboration with the organization and its robust, stakeholder-driven approach to sustainability members. Memberships have provided a forum for materiality that serves as a foundation for our sustainworking on key sustainability issues that are relevant ability strategy and reporting. Through understanding to both 3M and our stakeholders. critical sustainability issues from both internal and external perspectives, 3M can strengthen its social Memberships and partnerships help provide us license to operate and develop corporate strategy, goals, with diverse viewpoints on sustainability, a better targets, programs, initiatives and a stakeholder engageunderstanding of the positions of our stakeholders, ment strategy to advance sustainability globally. and a mechanism to learn from the successes and failures of our peers. As a science-based company, our stakeholders include customers and consumers, investors, government 66 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 67 Who We Are | Engaging Our Stakeholders To help assure the external organizations that we partner with share our commitment to business integrity, in Nonprofit Organizations Government/ 2016 we introduced a third-party business conduct Who Who Who Customers assessment process. and NGOs Regulators • Partnering to understand societal concerns • Complying with laws, regulations and policies • Providing diverse innovative product solutions that help our Stakeholder Engagement Why • Providing support to advance and solve global issues Why • Supporting and engaging on development and modification changes Why customers deliver on their promises • Offering a diversified portfolio of high quality products Strategy • Alliance to Save Energy • Providing products with sustainability attributes to address and help solve global environmental challenges • The Commission for Environmental Cooperation • Forum for the Future 3M’s stakeholder engagement strategy continues to How How • United Nations Global Compact • Friends of EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) • U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) • Corporate Eco Forum evolve. We continually look to our stakeholders to help • TFT (The Forest Trust) • Retail Industry Leaders Association • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership How us increase understanding, broaden our awareness, • The Nature Conservancy • U.S. EPA Energy Star Program • Sustainable Brands seek technical input and expertise and evaluate possible • Net Impact • World Business Council for Sustainable Development • Practice Greenhealth collaborations and strategic partnerships. We rely • World Resources Institute (WRI) on their counsel and expertise to help guide us. We • WorldSkills believe stakeholder engagement should be based on • World Wildlife Fund (WWF) candid and authentic dialog, grounded in the company’s Who Local Communities Who Suppliers, Contractors, values and should contribute to the evolution of our Industry Associations strategic priorities. • Supporting and engaging in citizenship activities across Levels of engagement with stakeholders vary greatly Who Investors Why our value chain • Providing economic and social value to communities while • Partnering with suppliers and contractors that meet or exceed expectations minimizing environmental impact Why by geography, type and function. For example, 3M • Supporting collective efforts to deliver business results • Supporting safe and healthy communities • Collaborating to identify, resource and amplify sustainemployees globally are engaged frequently through • Delivering profitable returns on investment ability initiatives sustainability communications and events with diverse • Disclosing timely, concise and relevant information (related Why to Economic, Environmental and Social Issues) • United Way • Respecting human rights for workers across our value topics based on our material aspects, while we may • Habitat for Humanity chain • Responding to inquiries How engage annually for an industry association meeting. We • Upholding corporate values • American Red Cross • Feed my Starving Children • Air & Waste Management Association may also have engagements around a specific issue. • Alliance to Save Energy • Dow Jones Sustainability Index • Numerous others local to our manufacturing operations How around the world • American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham) We engaged with many internal and external How • CDP • Much more information can be found in the Collaborating • American Chemistry Council (ACC) stakeholders in setting our new 3M 2025 Sustainability • MSCI with Our Communities section of this report • American Industrial Hygiene Association • National Investor Relations Institute • CAPS Research Goals. Our 2014 and 2016 materiality assessments both • The Conference Board demonstrated that our 2025 Goals remain aligned with • The Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) our stakeholder expectations—see the Materiality • European Chemistry Industry Council (CEFIC) section for more information. Our goals are aligned Academia and • Green Chemistry & Commerce Council (GC3) with the key global challenges, as well as the United Who Employees Who Scientific Organizations • London Benchmarking Group • Minnesota Chamber of Commerce Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. As such, • National Association of EHS Managers they present unique opportunities for partnerships and • Respecting human rights and diversity • National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) collaboration, which 3M is actively seeking. • Supporting, optimizing and promoting development and Why • Engaging on technical scientific research to develop inno• National Climate Coalition Why vative solutions for society growth • Pressure Sensitive Tape Council • Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment • Ensuring equal opportunity • Harvard Medical School, The Center for Health and the • Providing competitive compensation and benefits Global Environment How Attracting and retaining the highest talent by being a • Iowa State University, Center for Bioplastics and Media • company for which employees are proud to work Biocomposites Who • University of Minnesota, Center for Sustainable Polymers • Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy • Environmental Initiative • The League of American Bicyclists • Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change How • Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry • Ensuring 3M is represented accurately with current • The Science Museum of Minnesota Why • U.S. Business Leadership Network information How • Sustainable Life Media 68 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 69 Who We Are | Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion Our Commitment 2025 Goal: Double the pipeline of diverse talent in management to build a diverse workforce. At 3M, we are a collaborative, diverse group of people whose ideas transform the future. The way we look at it, a diverse, global workforce—people with different Increasing diversity in every region in which we operate experience, ethnicity, age, gender, faith, sexual orienis a core part of our Sustainability strategy. Doubling our tation, personalities, styles and ways of thinking—is a diverse talent in management positions will ultimately competitive advantage. help build a diverse pipeline for executive leadership as This advantage helps us relate more closely to the needs well. That said, we recognize that definitions of diversity of all 3M customers, suppliers and channel partners vary between countries and cultures. In the U.S. and in around the world reflective of our customers and many other countries, we provide our people with the markets. At the same time, it helps fuel our curiosity, our opportunity to opt-in and confidentially provide inforcreativity and our growth as a company. mation such as disability status, veteran status, sexual orientation, race/ethnicity and gender. 3M is committed to fostering an inclusive environment, built on our Respectful Workplace Principle, where employees thrive, feel safe and respected, involved, “Diversity and inclusion allows everyone in the workplace to bring his or her ‘full self’ to work valued, and free to be their real selves. Additional information on our Respectful Workplace Principle can be and be respected and valued. ” found in our Human Rights section. Ivan Fong, Senior Vice President Legal Affairs & General Counsel, 3M Company 70 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 71 Who We Are | Diversity and Inclusion Our Actions aligned with our corporate Vision and Strategies. 3M World Day for Cultural Diversity Society of Women Engineers (National and • ERNs enable employees to enhance their leadership Regional events) skills and collaborate across cultures, lifestyles and In 2002, the United Nations General Assembly declared • U.S. Business Leadership Network Every day, we work to assure that the 3M workforce is genders. These communities also work with our busiMay 21 to be annual World Day for Cultural Diversity, representative of the people with whom we do business. nesses to provide relevant customer insights that can which encourages people around the world to be This entails: expand our marketplace reach. 3M has ERNs established in St. Paul, Austin and other international locations. proactive in supporting diversity and inclusion. The “Do One Thing” campaign was launched worldwide. 3M Invent a New Future Seeking and attracting diverse and qualified Challenge • has been a strong supporter of this campaign from the candidates • A3CTION—For Asians and Asian Americans beginning. • Building our global pipeline of diverse candidates • African American Network Each year since 2014, 3M has sponsored the Invent a • Strengthening 3M’s reputation as a great place • disAbility Awareness Network New Future Challenge, a business case competition that for diverse people to work • GLBT + Allies Network 3M Global Inclusion Month celebrates the extraordinary thinking of college students around the world. Thirdor fourth-year undergraduate • Latino Resource Network The month of September is designated as Global In addition to our day-to-day efforts to support diversity students and those pursuing an advanced degree in • Military Support Network Inclusion Month at 3M. Several events and activities in 2016, we also actively promoted initiatives to both marketing, sales, supply chain/logistics, engineering, • Native American Network are held at 3M sites around the world to show how engage our people and attract the best talent. science, and/or technical studies are encouraged to New Employee Opportunity Network (NEON) employees can contribute to an inclusive environment, • participate. In 2016, students in 14 countries competed and to raise awareness about unconscious bias. in the local round. Twenty-seven finalists were then Engaging our People flown to the U.S. for the global case competition finals 3M Women’s Leadership Forum It takes every single person in 3M to strengthen our Inclusion Steering Team at 3M’s world headquarters in St. Paul. The final winning The Women’s Leadership Forum (WLF) is a global team received a 6-month mentorship with 3M senior inclusive culture. Inclusive behaviors are included in the In 2016, we created an Inclusion Steering Team in the organization whose mission is to attract and develop leaders in their respective countries. Another positive descriptors of the Leadership Behaviors and expected U.S. to create opportunities for increased visibility of the female leaders at every level of the organization and to outcome of the competition: more than 25 students of everyone. 3M is providing education to strengthen WLF and the ERNs. accelerate the inclusion and advancement of women were hired for full-time positions with the company. cultural agility and limit unconscious bias, reinforced by globally to reflect our customers and markets and grow a strong global communication campaign, “I’m in”. Members of this steering team are a diverse group of our business. 3M has 78 WLF chapters worldwide. senior leaders who represent our five business groups Chapter leaders include women and men volunteers and our corporate functional organizations. They take I’m in who customize action plans and events to meet the an active role in both defining and following up on the unique needs of their locations. Chapters collaborate I’m in, using a series of ‘in’ words, is a global initiative strategic actions connected with our 2025 Sustainwith ERNs and other Forums to drive culture change. that was designed to create awareness and underability goal of doubling the pipeline of diverse talent in standing of diversity and inclusion in our employees management. worldwide, and to encourage the actions of every 3M Celebrating Diversity leader and employee to positively influence our culture. Launched in 2014 in 50 countries, ‘I’m in’ strengthens 3M locations everywhere plan and implement special campaigns and events to raise awareness, involve and Attracting Global Talent and builds upon a culture where all employees feel inspire action among our people. During 2016, we participated in several recruiting events 2016 Invent a New Future Challenge Students valued and free to bring their authentic selves to work each day. In addition to its use of programs from the to connect with people and talk about employment opportunities at 3M, including: center of 3M, organizations are encouraged to use the International Women’s Day campaign as part of their own group’s work. In 2016, • American Indian Science and Engineering Society Working with those who the company expanded the program to include an ‘I’m International Women’s Day was created by the United Nations General Assembly in 1977. In March 2016, 3M • Martin Luther King Jr. Day Career Fair have served in’ Conversation Series, a quarterly opportunity for • National Black MBA Association employees to engage in frank conversation around recognized International Women’s Day celebrations in 3M is a strong supporter of initiatives that provide help 64 countries, during which employees were encour• National Organization for the Professional diversity issues. to veterans of U.S. military service. aged to wear red and honor the women who have Advancement of Black Chemists and Chemical inspired them. Engineers Hiring Our Heroes is a nationwide initiative that helps Employee Resource Networks • National Society of Black Engineers veterans, transitioning service members, and military spouses find meaningful employment opportunities. The • Reaching Out MBA Employee Resource Networks (ERNs) are employee-led • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers effort is backed by an advisory council comprised of 25 groups that serve as an integral part of recruiting, engaging and retaining diverse talent and mindsets 72 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 73 Who We Are | Diversity and Inclusion of America’s biggest employers, including 3M. Elements The Forum on G4 of the campaign include: LA Workplace Inclusion 12 • Establishing best practices for employing veterans 3M was a principal sponsor of the 2016 Forum on 3M Global Female Hires by Region • Providing mentors to help transitioning veterans Workplace Inclusion, hosted by the University of St. Percentage of Total Hires and their spouses Thomas in Minneapolis. This 3-day conference was designed to engage attendees, advance ideas and • Enlisting a similar commitment from small and 60 ignite change around the topics of diversity, inclusion medium-sized business and equity. More than 750 people and 180 speakers attended. Hirepurpose provides career guidance and a recruiting 50 portal for transitioning military service members. Its Global overall mission is supported by Hirepurpose’s employer partners—Fortune 1000 companies that understand the Looking forward… 40 impact and value of hiring veterans, including 3M. In 2017, 3M will continue to reinforce and build Asia Pacific On the Hirepurpose career portal, candidates can upon inclusion through efforts to bring down uncon30 research companies, receive job search advice, and scious bias and through open dialogue spaces for Canada make sure their applications reach veteran advocates at employees that have been created through the “I’m In” each employer partner. A team of Hirepurpose career Conversation Series. 20 Europe/ coaches also provides personalized guidance and Middle East/ Applying a diverse lens to business processes will Africa support online, over the phone, and at bases across continue to be an area of focus as we strive to reflect our 10 the U.S. customers and markets. Latin America The Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) Patriot Award recognizes the efforts made 0 United States to support citizen warriors through a wide-range of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 measures including flexible schedules, time off prior to and after deployment, caring for families, and granting leaves of absence if needed. 3M manager Joe Garvin was presented with this award in 2016, after being nominated by his Reserve Component employee, Capt. Jami Roux. (left to right) Capt. Jami Roux, Joe Garvin, and Dick Warren of Minnesota Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve 74 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 75 How We Work | How Introduction 78 We Work Corporate Governance 80 Enterprise Risk 86 Corporate Code of Conduct 90 Human Rights 98 Compensation 106 Employee Programs 110 Health and Safety 120 Environmental Management 128 Raw Materials 134 Water 142 Climate and Energy 146 Suppliers 158 76 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 77 How We Work | Introduction Introduction How we work Sustainability is embedded firmly at the core of 3M unexpected opportunities for breakthroughs. Our unique and in the strategic planning process we use for every “15% Culture” gives them the freedom to follow their region, every market, and every business. instincts. At the same time, our Tech Forum is a key enabler of collaboration. This self-directed, self-orgaIn each of our business groups and regions we have nized group unites 10,000-plus scientists and engineers dedicated Sustainability leaders who develop a relevant who work together to solve problems across oceans and and well-informed strategy specific to their market continents, regardless of which business they’re from. demands and business goals. For the D, 3M development teams within each of our Annually, like many companies, we go through a business groups draw upon our core technologies to strategic planning process during which our divisions create products for targeted markets and geographies. and regions develop their business strategies for the next few years. However, unlike others, we formally require Moving forward, we will expand beyond our own that each plan address Sustainability factors relevant to operations and focus more on 3M Sustainability goals their market needs and business opportunities. and the needs of our customers and communities. While we recognize the importance of what we do in our own businesses, and will continue to innovate there, we R&D at 3M is a little different: see that far greater impact can be realized when we partner to understand and overcome the challenges we we separate the R and the D. face together. First, the R. Scientists in our central laboratory are free to focus on pure research, in search of unscripted, 78 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 79 How We Work | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Our Commitment Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing the Guidelines at least annually and recommending any proposed changes to the Board for approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Certificate of 3M believes that good corporate governance practices Incorporation and Bylaws, the charters of the Board serve the long-term interests of stockholders, committees, the Director Independence Guidelines, and strengthen the Board and management, and further the Code of Conduct provide the framework for the enhance the public trust 3M has earned from more governance of the Company and are available on our than a century of operating with honesty and integrity. Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations—Governance. The Board’s leadership structure is characterized by: G4 3M’s Board of Directors has adopted Corporate SD 34-41 Governance Guidelines which provide a • a combined Chairman of the Board and CEO; framework for the effective governance of the • a strong, independent, and highly experienced Company. The guidelines address matters such as the Lead Director with well-defined responsibilities respective roles and responsibilities of the Board and that support the Board’s oversight responsibilities; management, the Board’s leadership structure, the • a robust committee structure consisting entirely responsibilities of the independent Lead Director, of independent directors with oversight of various director independence, the Board Membership Criteria, types of risks; and Board committees, and Board and management evaluation. The Board’s Nominating and Governance • an engaged and independent Board. 80 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 81 How We Work | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Guidelines The Board of Directors believes this leadership structure provides independent board leadership and engagement while deriving the benefits of having our CEO also serve Our Actions as Chairman of the Board. As the individual with primary 3M Shareholders responsibility for managing the Company’s day-to-day Stockholder Engagement operations and with in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Company, our CEO is best positioned G4 In November 2015, the Board adopted a new to chair regular Board meetings as the directors discuss SD “Proxy Access for Director Nominations” bylaw 3M Board of Directors 40 key business and strategic issues. Coupled with an indethat permits eligible stockholders to include in pendent Lead Director, this combined structure provides our proxy statement nominees for election to the 3M independent oversight while avoiding unnecessary Board. Our decision to adopt proxy access grew out of confusion regarding the Board’s oversight responsian open and constructive dialogue with our stockbilities and the day-to-day management of business holders, and we believe our proxy access framework operations. strikes the right balance for 3M by ensuring that stockholder nominees to the Board are supported by Corporate Auditing Compliance long-term stockholders representing a significant, but & Business Conduct Board Committees Chairman of the Board, attainable, proportion of outstanding shares. President and • Nominating and Governance Committee • Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer 3M Foundation Board • Compensation Commitee (Independent Corporate Contributions) • Finance Committee Corporate Governance Highlights Corporate Operating Committee Board Size and Independence Independent Lead Director Meeting Attendance 99% Crisis Management Committee Corporate Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Committee Business Conduct Committee Other Committees & Centers of Excellence • Independent Lead Director with • Overall attendance at Board and robust authority committee meetings • Combined Chairman and CEO • There were six Board meetings in • 11 out of 12 Directors are independent positions 2016 Director Tenure Director Age Other Public Company Boards Corporate Staff Functions Business Group Management Area Management 3 1 2 7 • EHS&S • Consumer • Asia Pacific 3 3 • Sourcing/Supply Chain • Electronics & Energy • Canada 1.5 • Finance • Health Care • Europe/Middle East/Africa 2 7 66 Average • Information Technology • Industrial • Latin America years years Board • Engineering/Packaging • Safety & Graphics • United States positions • Human Resources 1 2 6 3 3 • Community Affairs • Office of General Counsel 0-4 years 5-9 years < 59 years 60-65 years 0 boards 1 board • Public Affairs • Marketing/Sales/Communications 10-14 years 15-17 years 66-70 years 71-72 years 2 boards 3 boards • Research and Development • Strategy and Corporate Development The Corporate Governance Highlights above reflect the Board’s current 12 directors. One of the directors, Robert J. Ulrich, is no • Security longer eligible to stand for re-election as he has reached the mandatory retirement age. 82 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 83 How We Work | Corporate Governance Director Independence Diversity We celebrated our 100th consecutive year of • Related to the proxy access Bylaw adopted by the Board in November 2015, a stockholder, or a group of up to paying dividends to stockholders. 20 stockholders, continuously owning for three years at G4 The Corporate Governance Guidelines and G4 The Board of Directors values diversity as a • We were awarded 668 patents in the United least three percent of our outstanding common shares, SD Director Independence Guidelines provide that LA factor in selecting nominees to serve on the States and 3,770 globally, bringing the company’s may nominate and include in our proxy materials up 41 independent directors must comprise a 12 Board because its experience is that diversity all-time patent total to more than 109,000. to the greater of two directors and 20 percent of the substantial majority of the 3M Board. A director is “indeprovides significant benefit to the Board and the • We returned $6.4 billion to stockholders via number of directors currently serving, if the stockholdpendent” if the Board affirmatively determines that the Company. Although there is no specific policy on dividends and gross share repurchases. er(s) and nominee(s) satisfy the Bylaw requirements. director has no material relationship with the Company diversity, the Nominating and Governance Committee The notice must contain the information required by • We improved our employment brand by earning directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an orgaconsiders the Board Membership Criteria in selecting the Bylaws. recognition as the “Top Dream Company” in the nization that has a relationship with the Company and nominees for directors, including diversity of back2016 Millennial Career Survey conducted by the otherwise meets the requirements for independence of ground and experience. Such considerations may During 2016, members of senior management met with National Society of High School Scholars. the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. include gender, race, national origin, functional backa cross-section of stockholders owning approximately The independent directors will make the Board decisions ground, executive or professional experience, and • We made significant progress on our three key 35 percent of our outstanding shares. The meetings on corporate governance matters. international experience. levers: Portfolio Management, Investing in Innoincluded an overview of the Company and a discussion vation, and Business Transformation. of the Company’s practices on corporate governance. The Guidelines specify the criteria by which the indeAn inclusive culture at 3M is built on our Human 3M’s Chief Sustainability Officer also attended these pendence of our directors will be determined, including Resource Principles—to respect the dignity and worth meetings and summarized 3M’s more than 40 years of environmental stewardship and our journey driving both strict guidelines for directors and their immediate family members with respect to past employment or affiliation of individuals; encourage the initiative of each employee; challenge individual capabilities; and provide equal Governance Links business growth and societal impact through purpose. with the Company or its independent registered public opportunity. 3M is continuously focusing on building and For more information on corporate governance at accounting firm. The Guidelines also prohibit Audit maintaining an inclusive culture. Additional information 3M, see: and Compensation Committee members from having on our inclusive culture can be found in the Diversity and Governance Actions any direct or indirect financial relationship with the Inclusion section. • Corporate Officers Company, and restrict both commercial and not-for• Board of Directors Our Committees are designed to assure the execution profit relationships of all directors with the Company. • Committee Composition of 3M’s vision for the future. The Board currently has 12 directors and the following four committees: Directors may not be given personal loans or extensions Commitment to the • Governance Documents of credit by the Company, and all directors are required Audit, Compensation, Finance and Nominating and to deal at arm’s length with the Company and its subsidEnvironment and • Annual Reports and Proxy Statements Governance. During 2016, the Board of Directors held five regularly scheduled meetings and one telephonic iaries, and to disclose any circumstance that might be perceived as a conflict of interest. Sustainability meeting. Overall attendance at Board and committee G4 In 2013, our CEO formed the Sustainability Looking forward… meetings was 99 percent. SD 43-46 Center of Excellence to focus on developing We regularly post governance news, events, and presenand commercializing products which help our tation information in the Investor Relations section of our We regularly add directors to infuse new ideas and fresh customers solve their Sustainability challenges and on website. See 3M Events and Presentations. perspectives into the boardroom. In the past four years, assuring Sustainability within 3M operations and six new independent directors have joined our Board. supply chain. The primary role of the Center is to In recruiting directors, we focus on how the experience develop strategy, set significant goals to track progress, and skill set of each individual complements those of and drive sustainable actions for the benefit of our their fellow directors to create a balanced board with customers and our communities. In 2016, 3M formalized diverse viewpoints and backgrounds, deep expertise, Sustainability authority with our Chief Sustainability and strong leadership experience. Officer, CSO, with oversight by the Nominating and As affirmed or amended February 7, 2017: Governance Committee. • 3M Company Board of Directors Audit Sustainability will continue to be a vital focus as we work Committee Charter to truly advance every company, enhance every home, • 3M Company Board of Directors Compensation and improve every life. Committee Charter Other Noteworthy 2016 3M Accomplishments: • 3M Company Board of Directors Finance Committee Charter • We celebrated the grand opening of our new • 3M Company Board of Directors Nominating and $150 million laboratory in St. Paul, Minnesota. Governance Committee Charter 84 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 85 How We Work | Enterprise Risk Enterprise Risk Our Commitment Risk Oversight At 3M, we continually evaluate our approach to potential G4 The Board has delegated primary responsibility risks facing the company. The concept of risk appetite SD 46 for the oversight of risks facing the company to and tolerance is an essential component of our strategic the Audit Committee. The 3M Company Board planning, and it’s the responsibility of our senior business of Directors Audit Committee Charter states that the leaders to plan accordingly. committee will “discuss policies and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the It is our firm belief that good corporate governance company’s major risk exposures and the steps managepractices serve the long-term interests of stockholders, ment has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures.” strengthen the Board and management, and further enhance the public trust 3M has earned from more than The Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate a century of operating with uncompromising integrity Auditing, whose appointment and performance is and doing business the right way. Governance includes reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee, is broad risk oversight by the Board and its committees. responsible for leading the formal risk assessment and Risk analysis is reported to the full Board, the General management process within the company. The Auditor, Auditor, and Chief Compliance Officer. Both the General consulting with the company’s senior management, Auditor and Chief Compliance Officer are appointed by, annually assesses the major risks facing the company and report to, the Audit Committee of the Board. and works with those executives responsible for managing each specific risk. The Auditor periodically reviews with the Audit Committee the major risks facing 86 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 87 How We Work | Enterprise Risk the company and the steps management has taken to 3M places particular emphasis on protecting our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Strategy and Timeline monitor and mitigate those risks. company against emerging risks in an ever-changing world. Case in point: cybersecurity. Strong cyberWhile the Board’s oversight of risk is primarily performed security programs are essential, and we continue to Foundation Deploy and Optimize Achieve Global ERP by the Audit Committee, the Board has also delegated to invest in information technology systems and activities other committees the oversight of risks within their areas Pilot Countries around cybersecurity training and awareness, especially of responsibility and expertise. when it comes to avoiding phishing and other threats Established targeting 3M. Methodology We believe this governance of risks by Board commitGlobal Service Centers tees, who share information with the full Board, is Western Europe appropriate for a diversified technology and manufac1:1 Board Member-General Ramped-up turing company like 3M. 3M’s 10-K, Item 1A, outlines risk Organization Auditor Meetings United States factors applicable to the Company. Central & Eastern Europe/Middle East Africa In 2016, the Vice President, General Auditor met with Developed each independent 3M Board member, to discuss risk Blueprint APAC Our Actions management in general as well as specific risk-related Supply Chain Centers of Expertise topics facing the company. These meetings gave Board Latin America members an opportunity to share what risk issues were top-of-mind for them, and which should be reviewed 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Corporate-Level and addressed by the Board. For most Board members, the most critical risk in 2016 and into the future was Pilot Countries: Taiwan, Indonesia, Today Philippines, Russian Federation and Canada 3M’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) initiative, cybersecurity. launched in 2001, has helped assure adequate recognition and ownership of the most significant potential risks to the company’s shareholder value, using a process Business-Level we bring each new sight under 3M’s protocol with the Looking forward… that proactively identifies and communicates enterprise proper training. risks within the company. This includes: confirming 3M serves customers through five business groups. Over the next several years, 3M will continue deploying that appropriate plans and oversight exist for all major Annually, leadership from each business group presents In addition to EHS&S risk analysis, we have a crisis plan a single enterprise resource planning (ERP) system on a risks; providing for ongoing review and assessment of to the Board, and the Board discusses and approves, for every single 3M plant in the world. Although we hope worldwide basis, to provide a consistent, comprehensive risk; and aiding in generating awareness and engagedetailed long-term strategic plans for the company, to never use our Crisis Management Plans, it’s critically and discrete information platform for our businesses ment of general risk matters throughout the company. both at the Area and Business Group level. Each important that we have them in place, keep them up to everywhere. It’s another example of our commitment to The approach provides a customized capability that presentation includes an overview of the business date and drill often to make sure everyone understands continual growth and adaptation to emerging risks in an leverages 3M’s comprehensive, experience-based global group, short and long term financial performance and what to do should an emergency occur. We care about ever-changing world. knowledge and capabilities rather than tools often used goals, an assessment of portfolio growth opportunities; the safety of our people and communities around in financial or insurance oriented businesses. strategic priorities to drive the three key value creation the world. levers—Portfolio Management, Investing in Innovation, To assure long-term success, we are committed to and Business Transformation; plans to drive the four The Crisis Management Planning Guidelines are discovering and preparing for all potential threats to our corporate fundamental strengths—Technology, Manudesigned to provide a common framework for inteVision. Risk owners familiar with the environmental, facturing, Global Capabilities, and Brand. grating crisis management into the standard operations economic, and business aspects within the company are of each 3M facility. All plans must be prepared in accorinterviewed and requested to complete a thorough dance with good engineering practices and with the full assessment for their respective risk(s). Together, with Facility-Level approval of management. Also, to evaluate the effectiveness of the plans, scenario exercises are conducted subject-matter experts and senior management, the outcomes are mapped to demonstrate the relative level Our Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability periodically at facilities. of risk and likelihood of risk. This ‘heat map’ identifies the (EHS&S) organization looks carefully at each 3M site highest risk areas to focus internal efforts on. In addition, and new acquisition, and performs a crisis risk analysis external resources and data are continuously reviewed that considers factors such as potential impact to the to assist in the risk identification process. The results of environment, the community, and 3M employees. Each our various risk assessment exercises are shared with the site is ultimately ranked based on the risk they pose to Corporate Operations Committee and the company’s the company, and necessary steps are taken to minimize full Board of Directors. potential risks. Acquisitions are of particular focus as 88 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 89 How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct Corporate Code of Conduct Our Commitment Living by our Code of Conduct enhances our reputation and promotes trust with our customers, in our company and in the quality of our products. G4 G4 Through the years, 3M has built a repuSD HR 6, 10, 56-57 1 tation globally for taking an ethical 3M’s Code of Conduct defines how we live and work: approach to business. That said, with Be Good 91,600 employees and subsidiary operations in 70-plus Be Honest countries, it’s no simple task to always do business the right way. Be Fair Be Loyal To make it as simple as possible, we have developed Be Accurate one Code of Conduct that applies globally. Our Code Be Respectful of Conduct Global Handbook summarizes 3M’s compliance principles and raises awareness of our core 3M employees, including supervisors, managers and requirements for doing business “the right way, always other leaders, are responsible for knowing and following and everywhere.” the ethical, legal, and policy requirements that apply to their jobs and for reporting any suspected violations 3M has long had business conduct principles based of law or the Code. Executives and managers are on the company’s core values. Those values have not accountable for creating and promoting a workplace changed over time. 3M conducts our business with environment in which compliance and ethical business uncompromising integrity. The Code is our guide for conduct are expected and encouraged. answering questions and providing direction when the right choice may not be clear. 90 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 91 How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct The Global Handbook is available in 22 languages and • Investigative expertise Business Conduct Department, or to their Human related reports raised using our reporting tools found at sets clear expectations for not only employees, but • Incentives and discipline to address compliance Resources Manager. 3M makes clear that speaking up is www‌.‌3M‌-‌Ethics‌.‌com. also relevant stakeholders and business partners. All successes and failures the right thing to do. We know our employees care employees receive a copy of the handbook and can also about the Company and want to do the right thing. The Compliance and Business Conduct Department access it electronically. has the responsibility to review every business conduct In addition, a 24-hour confidential and anonymous (as concern that is reported. The Department determines Compliance Training permitted by local law) helpline and online reporting which reports require investigation and if investigation is Business Conduct Committee and Education system managed by a third-party vendor is available internally and externally. Reports are reviewed and needed, assigns the appropriate investigation resource. For concerns that are substantiated, disciplinary action The 3M Business Conduct Committee is composed G4 3M offers a comprehensive online compliance responded to by the Compliance and Business Conduct is taken. Discipline comes in a range of forms, from of several senior executives and is chaired by 3M’s SO training program to all employees worldwide. Department or other responsible staff departments. warnings, to suspensions, to termination, consistent with Chief Compliance Officer (CCO). The Committee has 4 The program’s training modules are assigned to similar past violations. Disciplinary actions may impact The system does not trace phone calls or use caller one or more persons associated with a single substantioversight for 3M’s various compliance efforts and, as employees based on their role and area of responsibility identification, nor does it generate or maintain internal ated violation. appropriate, updates the Audit Committee of the 3M within the company. Most courses are mandatory for connection logs containing Internet Protocol (IP) Board of Directors and Corporate Operating Committee. approximately 46,000 global employees, who are addresses. Web-based reports are made through a In 2016, the number of questions or concerns reported required to take modules on a twoor four-year cycle, secure internet portal, which does not trace or show to the Compliance and Business Conduct Department depending on the course. Offered in 22 languages, the user screen names. 3M’s Employee Obligations and increased by 24 percent. We believe this increase Global Compliance Program training modules include: Reporting Principle prohibits retaliation against anyone reflects employees’ greater awareness of their reporting • Global Data Protection and Privacy—Respecting who raises a business conduct concern in good faith obligation and the available reporting channels. This 3M’s global compliance program is managed and a Person’s Privacy or cooperates in a company investigation. Below is a increased awareness is a reflection of our actions in administered by the Compliance and Business Conduct Careful Communications graph illustrating five-year metrics for business conduct 2016 which include an updated and rebranded Code Department, led by the Vice President, Associate • General Counsel, Compliance and Business Conduct, • Gifts, Entertainment and Travel who is also 3M’s CCO. The department is staffed • Avoiding Bribery and Corruption: A Global with compliance professionals stationed at company Overview headquarters and around the world. The CCO reports 3M Global Allegations and Disciplinary Actions to the Audit Committee of the 3M Board of Directors, • Global Competition Total Number which assists the Board in oversight of 3M’s legal and • Creating a Harassment Free Workplace regulatory compliance efforts. The Compliance and • Code of Conduct and Ethical Decision Making 600 Business Conduct Department oversees and administers strategic, systematic and operational components of • Conflicts of Interest 550 3M’s compliance program. The 3M Compliance and Business Conduct website on 500 The compliance program is designed to meet the 3M’s intranet offers additional training on 3M’s global 450 U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines and similar global anti-bribery compliance program. In addition to online standards which identify the following attributes of an 400 training, the Compliance and Business Conduct Departeffective compliance program: ment, in close collaboration with 3M Legal Affairs, 350 provides frequent, tailored in-person training to busi• A core set of business conduct principles 300 nesses, subsidiaries, staff groups and third parties. Some • Education, training materials and the schedule of this training occurs as part of an annual schedule 250 upon which compliance training is conducted and other training occurs as requested or deemed 200 • Periodic evaluations, audits and measurements of appropriate. 150 the compliance program’s effectiveness A 24-hour helpline and website through which 100 Reporting Concerns • employees and others can report concerns and 50 ask questions G4 G4 Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and 0 • Programs to conduct appropriate due diligence SD SO values is the responsibility of everyone 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 on business partners, potential and new acquisi58 5 acting on 3M’s behalf. We encourage tions, and candidates for hiring and promoting our employees to ask questions or report their concerns Allegations Reported Substantiated Allegations Disciplinary Actions to management, 3M Legal Counsel, the Compliance and 92 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 93 How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct of Conduct along with a communication campaign to 3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle requires compliance with all quality and stewardship is not new at 3M. Through our promote the updates. This communication campaign applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign “For 114 years, one simple truth has remained Product Stewardship Policy, we already had high expecthe bedrock of who we are: our commitment included the development of four new “Speak-up” Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and local tations for our products. Elevating this policy to a posters with the fresh brand and made available in 22 laws where 3M operates. It applies to 3M employees, to integrity.” principle was just our way of validating what 3M has languages. Employee awareness to “Speak-up” also as well as to our business partners. In addition, Kristen Ludgate, been doing for a long time, and confirming that it increased through periodic risk-based compliance anti-corruption policies and procedures have been 3M’s Vice President, Associate General Counsel belongs at the very top of our governance pyramid. reviews of our businesses operations and through area communicated to all employees, and “Global Bribery and and Chief Compliance Officer and regional initiatives by our local compliance teams. Corruption Awareness” training is required of employees The entire principle is described in a video and in in higher-risk roles, including those in Legal, Audit, the new Code of Conduct handbook. The three core Sales, Marketing, Export and Global Trading. The CCO elements of this principle: Assessments provides quarterly updates on all activities to the Audit 1. Product Safety: As part of our mission to improve G4 A dedicated team within 3M’s Compliance and Committee of the Board. Our Actions every life, 3M will provide our customers with quality products that are safe for their SO Business Conduct Department conducts 3M’s commitment to anti-corruption also applies to the intended uses. 3 periodic compliance and anti-bribery evaluause of third-party intermediaries and other business tions in various 3M subsidiaries and operating units each partners. Based on an assessment of transaction, geography and other risk factors, 3M conducts reviews Code of Conduct Updates 2. Product Quality: Providing products that consistently meet customer, community and our own year. These evaluations are selected using objective and subjective risk factors, and include reviews of sample of these third parties. Depending on the outcome of the The written definition of 3M integrity—our Code of high expectations is fundamental to our success. financial transactions, compliance records and interreviews, we respond to any identified risks with training, Conduct—was updated in 2016. We made some 3. Stewardship: 3M works to produce products views with subsidiary and business unit personnel. In inclusion of relevant contractual terms and other changes to parts of the Code to simplify and improve with superior environmental performance across 2016, over 425 nonproduction employees were interrisk-mitigating controls. the clarity of certain principles. We rebranded our their entire life-cycle. viewed as part of the evaluation process. Additionally, in handbook, our website, our online training platform and Further, the Compliance and Business Conduct other materials, to reflect the corporation’s new brand 2016, we introduced audits of external third parties as This principle applies to all 55,000-plus products Department collaborates with 3M Legal Affairs on due identity, and what it means to “Be 3M.” In addition, we part of the scope of an evaluation in order to better 3M makes and sells. It touches on everyone’s role at diligence processes related to potential new venture added a new Product Safety Principle, to bring greater understand our business partners. 3M, from product development to manufacturing to investments and mergers and acquisitions. These focus to an area of operations that has really been part marketing and support. Under this principle we work Not only do audits, evaluations and risk assessments processes help identify risks in the target company of 3M’s culture from the beginning. with suppliers and business partners so that their operahelp detect opportunities for improvement and gaps in before acquisition and accelerate our efforts to integrate tions support these same objectives. processes or procedures, they also reinforce the importhe acquired company’s employees to 3M’s compliance tance of operating in an ethical, compliant manner. program and culture. Ultimately, the Compliance To see how this principle is applied, go to the Innovation and Business Conduct Department is charged with Management section of this report. conducting a complete risk review and implementing Commitment to any necessary remediation activities upon the closing Anti‑Corruption of every acquisition, using an established protocol and expert staff. “Speak-up” Posters As part of a communications campaign to promote G4 G4 As a member of the United Nations the new Code of Conduct handbook and doing the SD SO 15 4-5 Global Compact, 3M is committed to Political Values right thing, a series of “Speak-up” posters was created, support Principle 10 on Anti-Corrupexplaining how to raise a concern or suspected violation tion. Our commitment and our involvement in working 3M respects our employees’ right to engage in G4 of the Code. The posters are available in 22 languages. groups associated with Principle 10 give us the opportuSO the political process and, at the same time, 3M nity to learn best practices related to anti-corruption 6 is committed to prevent potential corruption. from other peer companies, conduct benchmarking with similar companies, and help educate other professionals Any corporate political contributions outside the United States require approval by the Area Vice President and Third Party Brochure working on anti-corruption through the participation of our 3M Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and other assigned legal counsel. New Product Safety, Quality, To enhance our communications with third parties, 3M created a brochure for our business partners. The Compliance and Business Conduct Department profesFor additional information on our Code of Conduct and Stewardship Principle brochure provides another way for 3M to communicate sionals’ participation in anti-corruption conferences and please visit: with our business partners regarding our commitment organizations. G4 A Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship to combat global bribery. The brochure is available in http://solutions.3m.com/wps/portal/3M/en_US/ businessconduct/bcmain/ PR 2-3 Principle was added to our overall Code of 27 languages. Conduct in 2016. Emphasizing product safety, 94 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 95 How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct “Speak-up” Posters Looking forward… การปฏิบัติตามนโยบายและจรรยาบรรณทางธุรกิจของ 3เอ็ม 3M-‫ציות והתנהגות עסקית ב‬ Pematuhan dan Pengendalian Perniagaan 3M The business actions 3Mers take today will advance the company’s ability to thrive in the future. We pride ourselves on being a company driven not just by innovation, but also by integrity. ความซื่อสัตย์ คือ ‫כנות היא המדיניות‬ Suarakan Kecurigaan! นโยบายที่ดีที่สุดของเรา .‫הטובה ביותר שלנו‬ Our strong ethical culture to do business the right way กล้าที่จะแสดงออก .‫אל תחששו לדבר‬ Suarakan Kecurigaan. gives us the confidence to grow our business anywhere กล้าที่จะถาม Kemukakan soalan. จงเป็น 3เอ็ม แจ้งข้อกังวล ไปที่ 3M-Ethics.com .‫שאלו שאלה‬ .‫ הע העלו חששות‬3M ‫הייהל‬ 3M-Ethics.com ‫עברו אל‬ Jadilah 3M! Suarakan Kebimbangan. Layari 3M-Ethics.com in the world. Our employees know they don’t have to compromise their ethics to do business. Our customers ประเทศไทย 001-800-12-0665204 Malaysia 1-800-80-8641 ท่านสามารถติดต่อไปยังผู้จัดการแผนกของท่าน ฝ่ายกำากับดูแลการปฏิบัติตามนโยบายและจรรยาบรรณทางธุรกิจ ฝ่ายกฎหมาย หรือฝ่ายทรัพยากรบุคคล .‫ אל המחלקה המשפטית או אל משאבי אנוש‬,‫ אל מחלקת התאימות וההתנהגות העסקית‬,‫תוכלו גם לפנות אל המנהל שלכם‬ Anda juga boleh menghubungi pengurus anda, pihak Pematuhan & Pengendalian Perniagaan, Undang-Undang atau Sumber Manusia know we are a company they can trust. 3M 商業行為遵循部門 Kepatuhan & Perilaku Usaha 3M Zgodność i zasady postępowania w biznesie firmy 3M The importance of a strong ethical reputation is recognized at every level in our company. We continNew Non-Retaliation ually work to enhance our compliance program and 誠實是我們的首要策 Kejujuran adalah Uczciwość to nasza Verification Process ethical culture by engaging 3Mers everywhere in our 略。 kebijakan terbaik najważniejsza zasada. compliance program, from engaged leadership communications, global leadership training, utilizing system 直言不諱。 kita. Ungkapkan. Rozmawiaj z nami. For investigations brought to light through the reporting controls, reducing process, improving transparency 活出3M 提出疑問。 報告疑慮。 Menjadi 3M Ajukan pertanyaan. Kemukakan kekhawatiran. Bądź częścią firmy 3M Zgłaszaj obawy. Zadawaj pytania. process, several months after the investigation closes, 參訪 3M-Ethics.com Kunjungi 3M-Ethics.com Przejdź do strony 3M-Ethics.com and enhancing our efforts around monitoring and 中國 10-800-120-1239 Indonesia 001-803-011-3570 Polska 0-0-800-1211571 the investigator checks to see whether the reporter assessing risk. 10-800-712-1239 has experienced any retaliation. This is done either by 您亦可聯絡你的經理、商業行為遵循部門、法律事務部或人力資源部門。 Anda juga dapat menghubungi manajer Anda, Departemen Kepatuhan & Perilaku Usaha, Hukum atau Sumber Daya Manusia. Możesz również skontaktować się ze swoim menedżerem, Działem ds. zgodności i postępowania w biznesie, działem prawnym bądź działem HR. phone or via email for non‐anonymous reporters. For 3M Compliance & Business Conduct Compliance & Condotta Aziendale di 3M Dodržiavanie súladu a obchodného správania spoločnosti 3M anonymous reporters who used the 3M-Ethics hotline, the check‐ins will be handled via our 3M-Ethics hotline. If claims of retaliation are identified, the investigation L’integrità è sempre Našou hlavnou team will follow up on them. Ehrlich währt bei la risposta giusta. zásadou je čestnosť. uns am längsten. Sprechen Sie Probleme an. Parla apertamente. Prehovorte. Stellen Sie Fragen. Poni una domanda. Opýtajte sa. Seien Sie 3M Bringen Sie Bedenken vor. Sii 3M Segnala un dubbio. Buďte súčasťou 3M Nahláste podozrenie. Gehen Sie auf 3M-Ethics.com Vai sul sito 3M-Ethics.com Navštívte stránku 3M-Ethics.com. Deutschland 0800-1016582 Italia 800-786907 Slovensko 0800-001-544 Sie können sich auch an Ihren Vorgesetzten, Compliance & Business Conduct, die Rechtsoder Personalabteilung wenden. Tiež sa môžete obrátiť na svojho manažéra, oddelenie dodržiavania súladu a obchodného správania alebo na právne oddelenie či oddelenie ľudských zdrojov. Puoi anche contattare il tuo responsabile, l’Ufficio Compliance & Condotta Aziendale, il tuo consulente legale di riferimento o la Funzione Risorse Umane. Service de la conformité et de la conduite professionnelle de 3M Chính Sách Ứng xử Kinh doanh và Tuân thủ của 3M 3Mのコンプライアンスおよび企業倫理 L’honnêteté est Trung thực là chính sách notre meilleure 正直であることは最 tối ưu của chúng ta. politique. 善の策です。 Exprimez-vous. Posez des questions. 報告してください。 Hãy lên tiếng. Faites-nous part de vos 質問してください。 Hãy đặt câu hỏi. Incarnez 3M préoccupations. 3Mであるために 懸念を報告してください。 Hãy trở thành thành viên của 3M Hãy nói ra những mối quan ngại. Rendez-vous sur 3M-Ethics.com 3M-Ethics.com Truy cập 3M-Ethics.com France 0800-902500 にアクセスしてください Tiếng Việt 120-11067 日本 0066-33-112505 Vous pouvez aussi contacter votre responsable, le service de la conformité et de la conduite professionnelle, le service juridique ou le service des ressources humaines. Bạn cũng có thể liên hệ với giám đốc, Bộ phận Tuân thủ & Tiến hành Kinh doanh, Pháp chế hay Nhân sự. お問い合わせは、直属上司、コンプライアンスおよび企業倫理部門、法務部門、人事部門でも受け付けています。 96 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 97 How We Work | Human Rights Human Rights Our Commitment The principles that guide us G4 Within our own business, 3M’s approach for HR managing and assuring human rights aligns with At 3M, there is only one way 4-6 3M’s Code of Conduct, which recognizes the to do business. The right way. right of employees to have a respectful workplace. We continue to implement our human rights program 3M is committed to assuring human rights in our own through our global policy statements, a management operations and in any business that works on our behalf. system utilizing self-assessments, audits, training, and Our Human Resources Social Responsibility Policy ultimately, metrics tracking. Our audit process is truly applies to all 3M employees, contingent workers, anyone global, and we are increasing the number of assessments doing business with or on behalf of 3M and candidates we are performing, which gives us a global perspective for hire at 3M. Our Global Human Rights Policy was on our own internal locations, particularly our manufacadopted in 2013, and we became a participant of the turing locations. U.N. Global Compact (UNGC) in early 2014, thereby We support the UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) on committing to align our operations and strategies with Business and Human Rights, and its “protect, respect the UNGC principles on human rights. and remedy” framework. Our human rights management system helps us manage salient human rights issues. We also support the principles of due diligence outlined in the UNGP. Furthermore, our Code of Conduct requires compliance with all applicable laws 98 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 99 How We Work | Human Rights and respect for internationally recognized human rights in all of our global operations. is free of inappropriate or unprofessional behavior and consistent with 3M’s ethics and values—a place Child Labor/Minimum Filing, Addressing, and Resolving Workplace Concerns where all employees can do their best, and are free to Hiring Age We also recognize the ILO Declaration on Fundamental report workplace concerns without fear of retaliation When concerns related to human rights, labor practices, Principles and Rights at Work. Adopted in 1998, the or reprisal.” G4 The permissible hiring age for employees may environmental or safety issues arise, our employees are Declaration commits Member States to respect and HR 5 vary based on the laws of different countries. encouraged to raise questions or report misconduct promote principles and rights in four categories, whether However, 3M has adopted global expectations or potential misconduct to management, 3M Legal or not they have ratified the relevant Conventions: Working Hours and Living Wages regarding the hiring of minors. Even if local law permits Counsel, the Compliance and Business Conduct freedom of association and the effective recognition it, 3M will not hire any employee or contingent worker 3M complies with minimum wage legislation globally, Department, their Human Resources Manager, or to of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination (individual provided by a third-party staffing agency to and we make every effort to exceed legal minimum 3M-Ethics‌.‌com. See 3M’s Business Conduct website of forced or compulsory labor; the abolition of child perform temporary work) below the age of 16 for any wage. Our competitive compensation reflects our for more information regarding how to report a concern. labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of job. If the applicable laws impose a higher minimum age practice of establishing competitive salary ranges based Additional information on reporting concerns can be employment and occupation. requirement than 16, 3M follows the stricter standard in on actual pay data from benchmark peer companies found in the Code of Conduct section. compliance with the law. in manufacturing. 3M also complies with all applicable 3M does not tolerate retaliation against anyone who Human Rights Elements laws relating to overtime and breaks. raises a concern, asks a question, or cooperates with Our commitment to upholding human and workplace Forced and Compulsory Labor a company investigation. Employees who intentionally rights is embodied in the 3M Human Resource Principles, which respect the dignity and worth of all Freedom of Association and G4 3M complies with all applicable laws and make false accusations or provide false information will be disciplined, because such actions violate 3M’s individuals, encourage the initiative of each employee, Collective Bargaining HR 6 employment regulations and does not engage business conduct principles and are inconsistent with challenge individual capabilities, and provide equal or participate in forced labor. We have those 3M values. If employees believe they are being retaliopportunity for development. G4 G4 3M works diligently to create a work same expectations for all vendors doing business ated against for raising a good-faith business conduct SD HR 11 4 culture that affords all employees the with us. concern, they may report this to any of the resources opportunity to work without fear of listed in the Employee Obligations and Reporting Respectful Workplace intimidation, reprisal or harassment, in an environment Principle. Human Trafficking where employees are able to get their questions 3M is committed to attracting and retaining a diverse In addition, we conduct audits of site workplace and addressed in a fair and timely manner. In all locations, Our approach to human trafficking, sometimes referred workforce by creating the kind of inclusive work envihuman resource practices, as well as assessments and the company’s relationship with employees, whether to as “modern slavery,” is very simple: we do not ronment 3M employees want and can be proud of. Our audits of suppliers to assure compliance with 3M’s union or nonunion, is a key responsibility of all leaders, tolerate it. Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policies prohibit expectations related to labor practices (see the Supplier assisted by human resources representatives. Human all forms of discrimination or harassment against applisection of this report for more details). resources professionals work with all employees to Our Human Rights Policy contains our prohibition on cants, employees, vendors, contractors or customers maintain positive employee relations. human trafficking. We are committed to using effective on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national systems and controls to prevent human trafficking origin, age, disability, veteran’s status, pregnancy, genetic information, sexual orientation, marital status, Our Human Rights Policy has a specific subdivision on the freedom of association, which assures that we from taking place anywhere within our business or Assuring Human Rights supply chains. citizenship status, status with regards to public assisrespect “the ability of employees to choose whether or through Training tance, gender identity/expression or any other reason not to join unions and engage in collective bargaining, The prohibitions apply to 3M and its subsidiaries as well prohibited by law. Our affirmative action policies and as to our federal contracts and subcontracts for either G4 We perform global training to assure that all 3M as permitted by applicable laws in the countries where programs are designed to assure equal opportunities for 3M does business.” In the event of business operations commercial or non-commercial items. HR 2 employees comply with the law, 3M’s Code of qualified minorities, women, covered veterans and indiConduct and Supporting Policies, Standards changes, we follow all applicable local laws and reguviduals with disabilities, and also to provide reasonable Expectations regarding labor and human resource and Procedures. 3M Compliance and Business Departlations regarding notice periods for both union and accommodation to individuals with disabilities. practices also apply to our suppliers (see the Supplier ment has created a Compliance Training and non-union employees. section of this report for more details). They apply to Certification Program that assures all 3M employees are 3M’s Respectful Workplace Principle states that Approximately 29 percent of 3M’s global workforce is the selection and retention of all suppliers worldwide. aware of and understand their responsibilities and obli“everyone is entitled to respectful treatment in the unionized. We are aware that in some countries, collec3M suppliers must comply with all local country labor gations. 3M’s Compliance and Business Conduct 3M workplace. Being respectful means being treated tive bargaining rights are not protected or recognized. and human resource laws and cannot use labor that is Department is responsible for the management and honestly and professionally, with each person’s unique Nevertheless, 3M assures that freedom of association obtained through mental or physical coercion, physical administration of the Compliance Training and Certificatalents, background and perspectives valued. A and collective bargaining aspects of our Human Rights punishment, slavery or other oppressive labor conditions tion Program. respectful workplace is free from unlawful discrimPolicy apply to all 3M employees worldwide. and cannot engage in any form of human trafficking. ination and harassment, but it involves more than Our Global New Employee Compliance Course Program compliance with the law. It is a work environment that is based on employee records in the 3M Human 100 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 101 How We Work | Human Rights Resource (HR) system. Employees are assigned courses the terms and conditions of their employment contract, relationships, acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures— America, Asia and Europe. Sites can then request the based on their job function, country location, producwhich states not only their own, but their organization’s to identify the salient human rights issues applicable assistance of 3M Corporate Staff, including Employee tion/non-production, and supervisor/non-supervisor responsibilities for information security. to our business. We have a grievance mechanism in Relations and the Office of General Counsel, for help status. Email notifications are sent to the employee’s place, 3M-Ethics, which can be used to raise a concern addressing any issues that may be identified. 3M internet email address informing them of their Management must require employees, contingent regarding any adverse human rights impacts. We also course requirements and timeline for completion. New workers and suppliers to apply security in accordance comply with all applicable laws, and honor the principles For additional details on our employee processes, see employee courses are due within 60 days of assignment. with established policies and procedures. All 3M of internationally recognized human rights when faced the Employee Programs section. employees and, where relevant, contingent workers and with conflicting requirements. suppliers, must receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and proceOthers acting on 3M’s behalf Our Actions dures, as relevant for their job function. Human Rights Assessments Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and values is the G4 Our assessment on human rights aligns with our responsibility of everyone acting on 3M’s behalf. Enhanced Training on Human Rights Charters HR corporate Human Rights Policy, as outlined Multiple processes are in place to assure 3M’s principles 4-5, 9 under Our Commitment, and includes: safe and are being upheld by others acting on 3M’s behalf. Case Human Trafficking G4 SD 3M continues to support several human rights charters. healthy workplace, respectful workplace, workplace in point: our approach to health and safety. security, work hours and wages, freedom of association, 15 Among them: Under our Workplace Environmental, Health, and 3M, in 2016, added specific content to our Code of child labor, forced labor or recruitment fees to obtain Safety Principle, 3M’s Code of Conduct requires 3M Conduct course providing general awareness of human employment. Evaluations are integrated into other • United Nations Global Compact employees to select and retain suppliers, contractors, trafficking risk. This course is part of the new employee assessment and management processes, based on • Universal Declaration of Human Rights or outsourced manufacturers and service providers onboarding process and is deployed every other year material issues regardless of where they’re identified who comply with all applicable laws and regulations to most of 3M’s current non-production employees. • European Convention on Human Rights within the value chain. and meet 3M’s environmental, health and safety values. In addition, a specific course covering this risk was • United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and In addition, at 3M locations, all visitors, vendors, and deployed to employees in roles and function where 3M continues to implement our human rights program Human Rights contract workers are held to the same safety and health awareness of this risk is most relevant, including global through our global policy statements, a management • International Labor Organization’s Declaration on system utilizing self-assessments, audits and training. requirements as 3M employees. supply chain and sourcing. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Based upon this assessment process, we have deterSee the Health and Safety section for additional informa• OECD—Organization for Economic ­Co-operation mined that in our various spheres of influence (our own tion on this assessment process. Human Resource and Development Guidelines for Multinational business and others acting on 3M's behalf) the sphere with greatest potential for human rights impact is within Security Standard Enterprises, including OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals our supply chain. G4 HR With the alarming rise in corporate security from Conflict-Affected and High Risk Areas Our Suppliers breaches worldwide, this standard presents the Agenda 21—UN Convention against Corruption Within our own business • 7 general IT Security controls required to achieve At 3M, we recognize the choices we make for our Human Resource Security based on industry standards material and service providers must also reflect our Within our own business, our approach for managing and best practices. Human Rights Due Diligence and assuring human rights aligns with the 3M Code of values. We want our suppliers to share our commitment to maintaining compliant, responsible and sustainable Conduct, recognizing the right of employees to have a Roles and responsibilities of information security operations and practices. In addition to full compliance G4 The 3M Code of Conduct describes the respectful workplace. employees, contingent workers and suppliers must be defined and documented in accordance with the SO company’s business conduct principles, or core with all applicable labor and human resource laws, we 2 values, which set forth global corporate expec3M’s Field Employee Relations Assessment tool, is a expect our suppliers to be committed to upholding 3M Information Security Management System (ISMS). means for 3M locations globally to analyze their policies the human rights of workers, and to treating them with tations for all 3M employees and certain third parties Background verification checks on all candidates for and practices on a site self-assessment of the workplace. dignity and respect as understood by the international who act on 3M’s behalf. Those values have not changed employment, contingent workers, and suppliers must This tool enables local managers to identify strengths, community. This applies to all workers including over time. The principles in this Code remain consistent be carried out in accordance with relevant laws, reguopportunities for improvement, and action plans to temporary, migrant, student, contract, and direct with 3M’s longstanding business conduct principles, its lations and ethics, and be proportional to the business address those opportunities, including a review of employees. These expectations are laid out in the 3M values and our shared ethical standards for conducting requirements, the classification of the information to be practices related to 3M’s Human Rights Policy. Various Supplier Responsibility Code. business with uncompromising honesty and integrity. accessed, and the perceived risks. data is tracked through the process to identify potential In our view, human rights due diligence requires a We have a 2025 goal to drive supply chain Sustainability gaps and opportunities for improvement. To date, As part of their contractual obligation, employees, through targeted raw material traceability and supplier holistic approach. So we assess our own business, approximately 70 percent of sites have been assessed contingent workers and suppliers must agree to and sign performance assurance. For details on our prioritized others acting on our behalf, suppliers, government including operations in the United States, Canada, Latin supplier assessment process, see the Supplier section. 102 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 103 How We Work | Human Rights Government Relations Partnering with Local G4 Under our Be Fair Principle, 3M is committed to Communities and Customers HR 6 being a responsible company with uncomproUnder Be Respectful, 3M’s core values include treating mising integrity in all its dealings with local, each other and our stakeholders with respect and state/provincial and national governments, and their respecting our social and physical environment. prime contractors and subcontractors around the world. In all of our activities with governments, we carefully With our Every Life Ambition, we work to imagine a follow all applicable laws, rules, and regulations. world where every life is improved. The power is in Before entering into any government contract, or any partnership. As a global corporation, we believe that we #improvinglives means applying our science to protecting people and have a significant responsibility to society in general, and agreement related to a government customer, 3M especially to the communities in which we live and work. employees must consult 3M’s Government Contract Compliance Department or their business unit’s assigned We have created a robust, stakeholder-driven approach enhancing communication. legal counsel. to Sustainability materiality that includes human rights. Our materiality assessments and stakeholder engageHuman Trafficking and forced labor-related proviments are vital components of our company’s strategy sions are also included in 3M’s government contract We create products that inspire creative communication and visual impact and and reporting. Details of our materiality assessment flow-down requirements for suppliers. In the United ensure safety across diverse industries and applications – from workers to roads, to can be found in our Materiality section. Our 2025 facilities and security—we provide sustainable solutions in an ever-changing world. States, the government has adopted a regulation (FAR Sustainability Goals were developed from the materiality 52.222-50) prohibiting human trafficking, including assessment. For additional information on our stakeslavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labor and holder engagements, see the Stakeholder section. coercion to induce a commercial sex act or to procure the same—all of which result in the deprivation of a person’s liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain. 3M has implemented Looking forward… processes to assure compliance with the U.S. FAR, In 2017, 3M issues its first statement under the United including a Human Trafficking Prevention Standard. Kingdom Modern Slavery Act, which expects companies For more information, see Doing Business with Governto disclose their efforts to eradicate modern slavery ment Agencies and Contractors Principle. and human trafficking in their own operations and their supply chains. 3M is committed to furthering the principles of this law, and our first statement details Acquisitions, Mergers how. We will continue to strengthen our due diligence management system to identify and address any salient and Divestitures human rights issues within our sphere of influence, and stay aligned with internationally-accepted frameworks G4 3M regularly pursues the sale and purchase of like the UN Guiding Principles. SO 2 business interests. For each business that may be acquired or divested, human rights issues are prioritized and addressed relative to risk and compliance during the acquisition integration or divestiture process. Safety & Graphics 104 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 105 How We Work | Compensation Compensation Our Commitment As detailed in the 3M Board of Directors Compensation Committee Charter, all aspects of this compensation are reviewed regularly by the Compensation Committee, G4 3M is committed to providing competitive which is composed solely of independent nonemployee SD 53 market pay and comprehensive benefits. In directors. The committee, along with an independent addition to providing a professional work envicompensation consultant, assesses the design and risks ronment that promotes innovation and rewards associated with executive compensation and recomperformance, 3M’s total compensation for employees mends changes when appropriate. Its recommendations includes a variety of components for sustainable related to compensation for 3M’s Chief Executive employment and the ability to build a strong Officer are subject to ratification by all of the indepenfinancial future. dent members of the Board of Directors. Executive Compensation Policies The Compensation Committee reviews stakeholder proposals relating to executive compensation matters and Practices and recommends to the Board the Company’s response 3M is a pay-for-performance company. In addition to such proposals. to base salary, executives are compensated for their contributions to the company's growth, profitability In 2016, at 3M’s annual meeting, stockholders approved and other goals. This compensation falls into one of two a new, long-term incentive plan for executives. Included categories: short-term cash incentives in the form of an in this plan, which received a 96 percent approval annual performance-based award opportunity, as well rating from existing shareholders, is a formula for calcuas long-term equity incentives in the form of annual lating performance based on four criteria: (1) earnings awards of performance shares and stock options, and in per share; (2) free cash flow conversion; (3) return on certain circumstances (for purposes of hiring or retaining invested capital and (4) organic local currency sales key talent, for example), grants of restricted stock or growth. Using four different metrics, rather than just restricted stock units. total shareholder return, allows for a more equitable, check-and-balance approach to evaluating performance. 106 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 107 How We Work | Compensation Like most of 3M’s U.S. employees, 3M executives Leadership Behaviors Additional information on 3M’s employee development world, this project used data from three global surveys are also eligible to participate in three deferred and compensation can be found in our Employee to benchmark pay levels, map job grades, and create a compensation plans, which enable them to save for Compensation for 3M employees is not just tied to what Programs section. consistent short-term incentive plan, which helps take retirement or other reasons, and receive certain other they do, but how they do it. This holds true for general manager discretion out of compensation. benefits. Approximately 100 executives participated leadership responsibilities as well as performance Additional information on the project launch can be Our Actions in this program in 2016, including all of the Named related to Sustainability issues. Leadership Behaviors Executive Officers. establish what is expected, and also how everyone can found in in Looking forward. demonstrate and meet those expectations through their 3M’s 2017 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy actions and interactions. 3M has a formula for competitive pay including market Statement provides additional detail on executive compensation. Anyone who owns shares of 3M common Six behaviors of effective leaders at 3M: adjustments and performance accelerators that are “Thanks to the Global Market Pricing Project, no based on an annual performance review and the Leadermatter where you talk 3M grade levels, a nine is stock can vote at the Company’s annual stockholder meeting, using a proxy. The proxy can be submitted by ship Behaviors discussed above under Our Commitment. a nine is a nine.” Play to win Prioritize and execute phone, by mail or on the internet. The Proxy Statement Our performance compensation includes short-term Jack Arland, Director, 3M Global Compensation that accompanies the actual proxy itself describes variable pay and long-term equity and cash incentives and Mergers & Acquisitions. the matters that are to be voted on, and provides Foster collaboration Develop others for some employee categories. Multiple employees fall information on those matters so stockholders can make and teamwork and self within each employee category, and their respective an informed decisions. Results of votes are filed with performance-related compensation may vary. the Securities and Exchange Commission within four Innovate Act with integrity Employee Stock Purchase Plan business days of the annual meeting, and are made and transparency At 3M, the proportion of total rewards aligned with available on the 3M website. variable (incentive) pay increases with job level and is The 3M General Employee Stock Purchase Plan reflective of the job level’s influence on both short and continues to be seen as a model among companies 3M innovation takes a lot of people who are constantly long-term results. Eligibility for Annual Incentive Plan worldwide. The company offers a 15 percent discount Director Compensation searching for new and better ways to make innova(AIP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) are based on stock purchases to eligible employees worldwide tion happen. People who challenge the status quo on job level, considering both the job level’s ability through convenient payroll deductions. In 2016, particiG4 The Nominating and Governance Committee and welcome change. And people who know how pation among employees was 31 percent worldwide. to influence the incentive period being measured SD 51-52 periodically receives reports on the status of to leverage internal and external networks to create and market competitiveness for these types of Board compensation in relation to other large win-win solutions. compensation. U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to the Board changes in compensation for non-employee To make sure we are constantly innovating, our leaders Additional information on 3M Total Rewards can be Looking forward… directors. In developing its recommendations, the must create an environment that allows and challenges found in our Employee Program section. Committee is guided by the following goals: people to seek out new ideas and process improveNew Self-Service HR Platform ments that drive success. Our “Innovate” Leadership • Compensation should fairly pay directors for Behavior includes an expectation to support 3M’s HR Manager Sessions 3M moved to a new human resources software platform work required in a company of 3M’s size and Sustainability goals. that will be employed globally beginning in 2017. This scope; Early in 2016, a series of HR manager sessions were held easy-to-use, self-service platform enables managers Ratings of achievement of measurable targets impact worldwide to provide managers and supervisors with a • A significant portion of the total compensato make better and faster decisions using real-time employees who are eligible for variable compensation. baseline understanding of 3M’s approach to competitive tion should be paid in common stock to align business insights. For both managers and employees, Ratings of Leadership Behaviors impact long-term pay and pay-for-performance, to help them communidirectors’ interests with the long-term interests of the platform provides more transparency, efficiency and variable compensation for those employees in senior cate to employees where they stand in the pay range stockholders; and accuracy regarding compensation practices. positions (e.g., job grade 14 or higher, or equivalent). for a given grade compared to peers and employees • The structure of the compensation should be at other companies. Globally, 98 percent of managers simple and transparent. completed the session. Global Market Pricing, Applied Other 2016 compensation highlights Periodically, at the request of the Committee, Frederic In 2017, the company will begin applying what it W. Cook & Co., Inc. conducts a survey of director The 3M pay-for-performance philosophy applies to Global Market Pricing Project learned in 2016 from the global market pricing project. compensation at other large U.S. companies and all employees. In 2016, 3M re-designed an employee Supervisors will receive further training about the salary performance review process that is directly connected According to company surveys, 63 percent of 3M provides expert advisory support to the Committee on adjustment process, and how individual and corporate to an individual’s compensation. The intent of the employees believe they are being paid competitively. the compensation of non-employee directors. performance affect an employee's pay. The goal is to be process is to align individual goals and performance with To drive consistency and transparency in compensation transparent regarding salary information and, ultimately, business objectives and outcomes, creating a win-win practices across all regions, during 2016, the company to make sure 3M employees are paid a wage that is situation for the employee and the company. In addition, completed a global market pricing project. Using competitive with their peers at other enterprise organithe process helps identify and develop leaders to meet common job descriptions and grades throughout the zations around the world. 3M’s ongoing talent needs. 108 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 109 How We Work | Employee Programs Employee Programs Our Commitment market share and accelerate market penetration everywhere” and “Expand relevance to our customers and our presence in the marketplace.” At 3M, we recognize that growth of our company is directly related to growth of our people. 2025 Goal: 100% participation in employee development programs to advance individual and organizational capabilities. Our science not only impacts our customers around the world, it makes a difference in the way we work. Our employees are encouraged and supported to pursue Engaged employees, we believe, are more satisfied with areas of interest and develop career paths and opportutheir work, tend to stay longer, and are more productive nities aligned with those interests. and committed. So we foster and reinforce behaviors that support engagement on many levels, including networking and collaboration, diversity and inclusion, and focus on the quality and the impact of the growth journeys. Our Actions 3M is a pay-for-performance company: the more 3M’s strategy to “Build high performing and diverse an employee contributes to 3M’s success, the more global talent” leverages the strength of our people to success is created for the employee. We also offer a implement other 3M strategies, namely “Gain profitable wide range of benefits and discounts designed to help employees live their best. 110 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 111 How We Work | Employee Programs 3M Total Rewards weeks at 50 percent) and 10 weeks of unpaid leave. Working part-time is also an option using one of the • Financial and legal consultation and referral services 10 percent of meaningful development is reached through formal training. G4 G4 3M Total Rewards includes a range of 3M standard part-time schedules. While there can be • Parenting resources, scholarship programs and EC LA plans and programs that are intended different definitions for “parental leave,” in the U.S. personal growth resources Our learning orientation and philosophy is results rather than activity-based. Measures such as training hours 3 2, 10 to attract, retain and motivate the during 2016, a total of 653 employees took either short‑term disability benefits for maternity (paid leave) • Access to on-site health and personal services or costs per employee are not leading human capital high-performing employees we depend on for growth and/or unpaid bonding leave (includes adoption) in our Headquarter location, including an on-site performance indicators for 3M. We believe indicators and success. 3M regularly benchmarks its compensa(female 398‌/‌male 255). pharmacy and medical center that align people’s results to the success of the company tion and benefits with those of companies that are • 3M Club that provides discounted tickets and an are direct performance indicators of development comparable in size and scope to assure that we remain In addition, our short-term disability plan was enhanced avenue to share hobbies and interests with other programs. Leadership and employee engagement, highly competitive. According to company surveys, in 2016 to provide a higher level of benefits earlier in employees Employee Retention Rates, New Product Vitality Index 86 percent of 3M employees believe 3M Total Rewards an employee’s career. A new hire now will start out (a key metric for the company—sales percentage of are competitive. with six weeks of 100 percent paid short-term disability Additional resources and opportunities offered: new products introduced in the previous five years), 3M Total Rewards break down into three areas: pay, coverage, compared to 60 percent coverage in the Brand Recognition, Acquisition Integration milestones, previous plan. • Tuition reimbursement and Lean Six Sigma project value are a few examples benefits and life at 3M. • Adoption assistance of indicators that contribute to 3M's recognition as an Further information on 3M’s wide range of benefits and industry and global leader. discounts designed to help employees live their best can • Flexible work arrangements Pay be found at: Benefits. • Diverse career and development opportunities While we can estimate that our training numbers are close to averages found in other large manufacturing We offer a competitive base pay and, depending on • Scholarships for eligible dependents of companies, comprehensive global metrics on training position, variable incentive pay linked to company and employees individual performance. Life at 3M • Voluntary long-term care coverage, group auto and training investments are difficult to track, in part due to 3M's history of decentralized accountability 3M employees can grow through challenging work and home insurance and control over businesses. Our locally accountable While base pay applies to all employees, variable pay is offered to eligible employees and may include annual by leading important projects, working with diverse, • Employee store to purchase 3M products online approach enables quick reaction and fine-tuning to meet incentives, sales incentives or other incentives. See the talented people and finding endless opportunities to or at many 3M locations the needs of each market. However, tracking non-corpoCompensation section for more details. develop skills—while enjoying access to many perks, rate/local efforts is difficult because each is adapted to • Support for community involvement: Matching programs and resources. the needs of that unique market and business/function Gifts, Volunteer Match, 3Mgives (our community and may not use corporate-wide systems. giving program) Benefits 3M Healthy Living Program 3M has separate processes for employee performance and career development reviews. Medical, dental and vision plan options, savings The 3M Healthy Living Program offers a variety of Education and Career Growth G4 LA and retirement plans, a 3M employee stock resources, rewards and incentives to help employees live Employee Career Development 3 purchase plan and many other resources can a more active and healthy life. A sampling of opportuniToday’s business environment demands that we enhance a 3M employee’s life, both physically and ties available: become faster and more flexible in anticipating and financially. With the roll-out of our new employee resource platform • 3M Medical Plan premium discount for being exceeding the needs of our customers, shareholders and in early 2016, employees are now easily able to link All regular full-time employees in the U.S. are eligible for tobacco-free and taking steps to improve health employees. Creating a high-performance culture built on development planning to specific competencies, for these benefits—regular part-time employees who work continuous learning helps 3M achieve business growth • On-site fitness centers at select locations which development resources are readily available. at least 20 hours/week are also eligible. Some programs for the company and professional growth for employees. Aligned with this, we have a goal of 100 percent of and benefits may differ internationally due to local laws • Fitness center discounts employees engaging in development activities. and regulations. • Weight management program reimbursement Investing in our People Employees create or update their development plan that • Confidential Employee Assistance Program (EAP) For U.S. employees, in 2016, we updated our parental G4 The growth of our people is essential to the includes goals to elevate individual performance and leave policy to enable each parent to play an active role • Tobacco cessation offerings LA growth of our business. Although we reached skills to further career development. Employees can use in nurturing his or her family, regardless of gender or • Resources to help manage medical care and 9-11 our goal of 25 hours per year per full-time additional skill-mapping tools in collaboration with their sexual orientation. The policy offers the flexibility to make informed health care treatment choices equivalent (FTE) employee of training and development, supervisors to identify long-term desired goals. Contrimake it work for both one’s job and family. Mothers it is only one part of the picture. We utilize the 70-20-10 bution and development assessments for production • Stress management coaching and fathers of newborn or newly adopted children are development model which indicates that over the course staff follow site-specific procedures depending on local entitled to up to 20 weeks of Parental Leave—10 weeks • Child and adult (elder) care consultation and requirements and business-specific needs. of a career, 70 percent of learning is done on the job, of paid leave (four weeks at 100 percent and six referral 20 percent comes through other employees, and only 112 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 113 How We Work | Employee Programs Since 2012, 3M has embarked on a process to define and communicate global functional competency models • Feedback on progress toward these goals is provided formally, twice a year, and supervisors 3M’s HR department is unique in that we have one global system to track HR information. At every 3M Global Executive and which clarify expectations of leaders regarding the are taught and encouraged to provide routine location around the globe, we have instant access to this Leadership Development knowledge, skills, and abilities to be developed over feedback to help employees adjust performance information—using our global reporting tool. a career within a specific function. Based on shared and meet or exceed goals. expectations, career paths are aligned with investment 3M Leadership Way in training and development resources. Each function • Management Team Reviews function not only New Employee Onboarding to provide comprehensive information about an In 2015, 3M introduced a new initiative called 3M Leadwith a completed competency model publishes a guide employee, but also to further the goal that rating 3M invests in onboarding and developing new ership Way under 3M’s Global Academy of Innovative that provides links to relevant training opportunities, as considerations will be consistent for employees employees so that they have the tools, resources and Development. This approach to the way 3M develops well as development suggestions that can be discussed within an organization. This maximizes fairness by networks they need to succeed. Our onboarding process leaders is consistent across all areas, businesses and and agreed on with the employee’s supervisor to grow equating ratings for similar performance. begins at the time a candidate accepts a job offer functions. It is customer-focused, results-driven and the competency through on-the-job activities or social and continues through the first year of employment. takes learning outside of the classroom walls. Common learning through a coach or mentor. Currently, the Each year, all 3M nonproduction employees identify A consistent, comprehensive onboarding platform threads run through the development journey, such as competency-based resources cover approximately 91 their contributions in meeting their specified goals provides pre-start information delivery and engagement core content (i.e., 3M Playbook including the 3M Vision). percent of the non-production professional employee through an employee performance process. 3M strives for new employees on the front end, and clear metrics, Also, programs are tailored to provide the formative population. to have 100 percent of nonproduction employees reporting and tracking for 3M on the back end. This experiences necessary to prepare leaders at each level complete the entire performance review process. In investment sets new employees up to be successful and for their next assignment. Performance Assessment 2016, all eligible employees were rated through the to make meaningful contributions from the start. Through 3M Leadership Way, our promise is to unleash calibration meetings, and these employees and their and Contribution supervisors received tasks to complete the year-end the leader’s potential to add value to our company, process in the performance system. Accelerated Leadership Development customers, and the world we live in. 3M Leadership G4 Throughout the year, employees meet with their Way Stages: LA 11 supervisor to evaluate progress on current goals 3M views leadership development as a competitive and adjust them as needed to align to any Employee Turnover advantage and is accelerating leadership development Catalyst changes in priorities. across all employee segments by using new techCatalyst is a 12-month program designed to develop G4 Our global voluntary turnover rate continues to nologies and delivery methods to make its programs the company’s top 250 leaders into true leaders who Our process includes two components: 1) measurable LA be under six percent, a source of great pride for globally inclusive. can impact the course of 3M and also the course of targets agreed upon by each employee and his/her 1, 4 our company. Compared to most companies, supervisor; and 2) Leadership Behaviors ratings, which There are multiple leadership development programs the world. 3M employees love working here, and they rarely leave reflect the extent to which the employee engaged in the company. We calculate voluntary turnover sepaoffered for different stages in an employee’s career Amplify core behaviors that allow 3M to execute our strategies rately from retirements, company initiated turnover, and journey. At any stage, in every region, business and and meet our objectives. leadership courses are made available to employees, Amplify is a 9-month program for participants with reductions in force. Voluntary employee turnover is including free online programs that cover topics ranging the potential to reach the director level. It includes the defined as turnover due to employee initiated reasons The performance assessment process helps hold each from personal effectiveness to finance. There is also a same components as Catalyst, scaled to the needs of (e.g., returning to school, going to another job in a of our employees accountable for their contribution and year-long onboarding program for new supervisors, as future directors. different company). everyday behaviors. The process aligns personal goals well as several programs for leaders as they progress with organizational goals—we strive to achieve our Ignite Total turnover includes voluntary turnover and all other into different leadership roles. goals in ways that support and strengthen our culture forms of turnover (e.g., termination as a result of restrucIgnite is a 6-month developmental journey for those who and achieve sustainable growth. In addition, 3M has long turing, termination for poor performance, retirements). 3M is building leadership capability throughout the are transitioning to leading teams, and who have the prioritized taking a well-rounded view of an individual’s Our total employee turnover rate is an annualized rate company by embedding diversity, collaboration and potential to become senior managers. performance, assuring that employees are treated in a that measures employees who have terminated or retired inclusion strategies directly into our programs. fair and consistent manner: from 3M during the calendar year, excluding foreign • Performance goals, linked to higher-level service employees and 3M temporary employees. Networks and Collaboration organizational goals, are set jointly between the Temporary employees are 3M employees hired tempo3M has numerous pathways to support organizational individual and his or her leader. Tools provided to rarily with intent to be employed short-term. They do not communications, learning and knowledge management. leaders facilitate conversations between leaders include contingent workers. There are a variety of corporate and job functional and employees to assure mutual understanding of systems to methodically help information and expectations and desired behaviors. 3M follows all applicable local laws and regulations knowledge emerge and flow to the right people at the regarding notice periods in the event of business operaright time to add value. For example: tions changes. 114 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 115 How We Work | Employee Programs Formal Learning Networks: The Learning Solution has been 3M’s corporate learning management system Employee Awards and one-stop electronic learning center. It has helped and Recognition 3M Global Employees by Region Full and Part-Time employees enroll in, deliver, track and report on learning activities and has served the learning needs of 3M sponsors many corporate award programs to honor 3M business units, plants and learning organizations individuals and teams that make significant contributions 90,000 globally. However, a new platform designed to simplify to the company. In addition, many divisions also have access to learning activities, is on the horizon. See their own specific ways of recognizing and rewarding Looking forward. people. Across 3M, management can choose from a 80,000 variety of monetary and nonmonetary awards to show Intranet Knowledge Platforms Databases: 3M’s intranet appreciation for exceptional contributions. Examples of site structure is set up so that each employee has a Work corporate awards include: 70,000 Center as one of the quick-link tabs following login. Each Work Center is a collection of tools, systems and • Awards for specific professionals, such as the processes that are used routinely in daily work practices Global Marketing Excellence Award and the 60,000 to successfully complete projects and work assignments Circle of Technical Excellence and Innovation in an employee’s functional work area. Company Award news for employees is available on a global news site, • Awards for cross-functional teams, such as the 50,000 3M Newsroom. Golden Step Award Global • Awards focused on employees who improve Best Practice Descriptions/Processes: As a diverse 40,000 safety or pollution prevention technical company, 3M shares best practices several Asia Pacific ways. Two of the most widely used internal mechanisms • Two prestigious lifetime achievement awards: the are the 3M Tech Forum and the 3M Engineering and Engineering Achievement Award and the Carlton 30,000 Canada Manufacturing Technology Organization. These two Society recognition, which honor employees for organizations provide an extensive network of expertise their scientific achievements Europe/ through specialized chapters focused on 3M’s core 20,000 Middle East/ technologies and other emerging markets. Africa Company Education: In addition to a variety of general courses, webinars, etc., 3M offers specialized extended Our Footprint 10,000 Latin America courses to increase skills such as the 3M Leadership G4 G4 The employee metrics in the charts are 0 Development Institute, the 3M Supply Chain Academy, the 3M Marketing University and the General Managers’ SD LA 9-10 1, 12 reflective of employee headcount as of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 United States December 31, 2016 (total number of and Managing Directors’ program. 3M full-time and part-time employees) not 3M full-time Idea Sharing: Idea management is driven differently equivalent (FTE) employees. Due to acquisition integraacross the Company depending on organizational tion schedules onto 3M’s human resources systems, 3M Global Females in Management needs and what works best for the area of work. Some detailed employee information below may differ from Percentage of Total platform examples include Yammer, Wiki Enterprise, and employee totals in 3M financial reports. various 3M internal and external social media channels. 30 Systems are implemented and available globally to share best practices and ideas. Additionally, since about 1948, Looking forward… we’ve encouraged our employees to spend 15% of their 20 working time on their own projects and sharing those In 2017, 3M will launch Develop U, a robust new learning ideas with colleagues. platform designed to provide employees with simplified access to employee learning and development tools. 10 This centralized platform will contain more than 2,000 learning resources in over 15 languages. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 116 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 117 How We Work | Employee Programs 3M Global Female Employees by Region 3M Global New Employee Hires by Region TotalGlobal New Employee Hires by Region 3M Global Female 3M Percentage of TotalEmployees Employees by Region Percentage of Total Employees Total 50 16,000 16,000 50 Global 14,000 40 Global 14,000 40 Asia Pacific 30 Asia Pacific 12,000 12,000 30 Canada Canada 20 10,000 Europe/ 10,000 20 Middle East/ Europe/ Africa East/ Middle Global Africa 8,000 Global 10 8,000 10 Latin America Latin America Asia Pacific Asia Pacific 0 United States 6,000 6,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 United States Canada 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Canada 4,000 Europe/ 4,000 Europe/ Middle East/ Africa East/ Middle 3M Regional and Global Employee Age Distribution Africa 2016Regional 3M and Global Employee Age Distribution Percentage 2,000 2016 Percentage 2,000 Latin America Latin America 100 0 United States 100 0 United States 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 90 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 90 3M Global Female Hires by Region 80 3M Global Female Percentage of TotalHires Hiresby Region 80 Percentage of Total Hires 70 60 70 60 60 60 50 50 50 Global 50 Global Generation Z 40 40 (>1994) Generation Z 40 (>1994) 40 Asia Pacific Asia Pacific 30 Generation Y 30 30 (1981-1994) Generation Y (1981-1994) 30 Canada 20 Canada 20 Generation X 20 (1961-1981) X Europe/ Generation 10 (1961-1981) 20 Middle East/ Europe/ Africa 10 Middle East/ Baby Boomers Africa 10 0 (1943-1960) Baby Boomers Latin America 0 (1943-1960) 10 Asia Canada Europe Latin United Global Latin America Asia Pacific Canada Europe Middle East Latin America United States Global Pacific Middle East America States 0 United States Africa Africa 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 United States 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 118 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 119 How We Work | Health and Safety Health and Safety Our Commitment Employee Health and Safety The 3M Global Safety and Health Policy applies to 3M operations everywhere, including new acquisitions. Injuries and illnesses have declined since 2006. Hazards in 3M's workplaces must be well understood And we’re working to push them even lower. and effectively managed to protect 3M employees, visitors, locations, and surrounding communities. G4 As a company that makes a vast array of In addition, in the spirit of continuous improvement, SD 10 products designed to protect workers, 3M is much is being done to evaluate opportunities to raise front and center in the global effort to bring our safety standards. We visit locations, perform audits new science and innovation to workplace safety. At the of record-keeping practices and review incident data, same time, as an enterprise with 91,600 employees the quality of our investigations and corrective actions working around the world, we are always taking steps to taken. advance the safety of our employees. An employee fatality caused by electrocution occurred Since 2006, due to these diligent efforts, worldwide at a U.S. manufacturing site in 2016. The operation lost time rates have decreased 49 percent for 3M was shut down immediately for thorough root cause employees. investigation. The exact actions taken by the employee moments before the electrocution were not witnessed. All operators of the involved process had been trained, qualified and equipped to carry out work activities 120 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 121 How We Work | Health and Safety on live electrical energy. It is unknown why contact with the electrical energy source occurred. Additional preventive measures were implemented to further Our Actions 3M Global Serious Injury/Illness Incident (SIF) Rate Total 3M, Contingent and Contractor Employees strengthen the safety of the operation before it G4 In 1996, a Global Safety and Health Plan (GSHP) was restarted. LA 6 tool was initiated for all global 3M locations, 0.20 and it has been continually used and improved since then. This tool utilizes a well-developed self-as0.18 Contractor and Visitor Health sessment process that is categorized into multiple elements addressing various areas and standards related 0.16 and Safety to safety and health. 3M utilizes a variety of tools to 0.14 manage risks from hazards in the workplace. We’ve 0.12 All visitors, vendors, and contract workers at 3M used specialized tools successfully for a number of years 0.10 locations are held to the same safety and health in the areas of process safety, industrial hygiene and requirements as 3M employees, beginning with a ergonomics. Each of these disciplines uses a risk 0.08 pre-qualification process before granting contracts management approach to categorize hazard levels and 0.06 for work, and getting information such as injury/illness define appropriate levels of control. rates, Experience Modification Rates (EMR), and training 0.04 and activity levels of safety committees. 0.02 For a non-3M employee (contractor) conducting work RAP and WIMS assessments 0 at a 3M location, before actual work begins, formal bring historic success 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 pre-construction safety reviews are conducted to address potential hazards and controls related to the It has been more than four years since the roll-out of work. Monitoring of safety performance is frequently the RAP (Risk Assessment & Prioritization) process was conducted throughout the contract term. officially launched in WIMS. Today, over 90 percent of our locations have people with formal RAP training. In addition, each location has a Contract Coordinator 3M Regional and Global Lost Time Incident Rate Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours) who is the main contact for contractor safety. They Since that launch, risk reduction activity has yielded have the ability to participate in pre-bid meetings and gratifying results. At the end of 2016, over 59,000 risk pre-qualifications for contractors. The Contract Coordiassessments had been completed which resulted in 0.70 Worldwide nator is on-site and therefore available for daily meetings the identification and reduction of more than 17,000 and safety reviews to assure proper behavior, training, higher initial risk activities. This, in turn, has correlated 0.60 and weekly inspections. to a steady decrease in severe incidents over the past Asia Pacific three years. 0.50 Any contractor incidents are reported in the 3M Worldwide Incident Management System (WIMS), The SIF (Significant Injury/Illness or Fatal) rate at 3M, Canada 0.40 including injuries and contractor worker hours. which remained at 0.19 from 2012 through 2014, fell steadily in 2015 and continued its decline in 2016 with Europe/ a net reduction of around 42 percent. This represents 0.30 Middle East/ Africa Process Hazard Management about 50 fewer significant injury/illness incidents per 0.20 year. The following chart shows the worldwide SIF rate Latin America 3M is committed to rigorously monitoring the risks assotrend for all 3M employees, contingent workers and ciated with hazard management, such as process-related contractor workers combined. 0.10 fires, explosions and sudden release of toxic materials. United States We use a Hazardous Process Evaluation Tool (HazPET) 0.00 to categorize hazardous processes and assess the effecSignificant injury assessment 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 tiveness of existing safeguards. Layers of Protection Analysis (LOPA) is also used to evaluate critical safety In 2013, 3M instituted a new approach to dealing with devices and systems, providing more attention to indehazards that have the potential to result in fatalities pendent protection layers. or serious injuries. In 2014, we implemented metrics to measure our progress toward a five-year goal of 122 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 123 How We Work | Health and Safety 100 percent conformance to the following six standards for managing risk in certain high-hazard activities: Comprehensive Chemical 1. Safety and Health Hazard Recognition and Risk and Noise Exposure Risk 3M Global Recordable Incident Rate Category Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours) Assessment Assessment and Management 2. Incident and Potential Hazard Reporting, Record To accurately assess exposure management programs 0.60 Keeping, Investigation and Follow-up and activities, 3M uses the comprehensive approach 3. Powered Industrial Vehicles outlined by the American Industrial Hygiene Asso4. Machine Guarding ciation (AIHA). In the past decade, over 95 percent of all chemical agents and noise baseline exposure 0.50 5. Work at Height risk assessments have been completed for all jobs, 6. Process Hazard Analysis including annual air and noise sampling plans, exposure assessment validation plans, hearing conservation 0.40 Global Health and Safety Plan High Hazard Standards By Region 2016 Percentage 0.30 100 0.20 95 90 0.10 85 80 0.00 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 75 Contact with Exposure, Physical Agent Object/Equipment Chemical Exposure Ergonomics Miscellaneous Slip, Trip, Fall Exposure, Noise Exposure Transportation 0 Biological Agent Accident 1.6 3.2 6.4 6.8 6.11 8.3 Safety and Incident and Powered Machine Work at Process Hazard Health Hazard Potential Industrial Guarding Height Analysis Recognition Hazard Vehicles and Risk Reporting, programs and respirator and personal protective regional leaders for ergonomics at various locations Assessment Record equipment programs. The results of these assessments around the globe. In 2016, we trained ergonomic Keeping, help us determine whether any changes in exposure experts in each region globally to drive ergonomic risk Investigation management programs are warranted. reduction. Ergonomic training is also available 24/7 to and Follow-up any employee in the world who wants to learn more. These efforts have led to reduction in recordable cases; Worldwide Asia Pacific Canada Europe/Middle East/Africa Ergonomics Risk Management see Recordable Incident Rate chart above. Since ergonomic and noise-related injuries continue to Latin America United States be a major topic for all kinds of employers, 3M included, we have been placing special emphasis on developing 124 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 125 How We Work | Health and Safety Safety and Health Looking forward… 3M Regional and Global Recordable Incident Rate Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours) Committees 3M Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) will be hosting the 3M Global Safety Conference in May, 2017 G4 3M seeks employee participation at all levels to in Minneapolis, Minnesota. This internal conference is LA assure involvement and ownership of safety and focused on managing EHS risks, increasing knowledge 2.50 5 health programs and systems. Safety and of 3M safety systems, strengthening regulatory compliHealth Committees, typically comprised of both ance, and increasing productivity. management and employees, are key to us achieving 2.00 effective, proactive solutions to safety and health issues, In addition to the global safety conference, more training as well as substantive results. Emphasis is placed on a will be available in 2017 to assist locations in their risk cooperative effort between management and employees reduction efforts and to provide them with benchmarks 1.50 in achieving these goals. on the quality of their risk assessments. Assistance is also available from Corporate Safety for a case by case Through these collaborative efforts, all employees 1.00 review of risk assessments for any particular challenging have the opportunity to be involved in risk assessment hazard in need of improved controls. activities to then develop action plans and assign responsibilities for completing safety and health-related 0.50 goals and objectives. In 2016, 100 percent of 3M manufacturing locations 0.00 worldwide had active employee safety and health 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 committees. Worldwide Asia Pacific Canada Europe/Middle East/Africa Latin America United States Static Discharge Additional Steps to Protect Improvement Plan People at Our Facilities With continuing growth in electronic devices and tech3M follows the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health nology, 3M developed a static discharge improvement (OSHA) recordkeeping rules and formulas to record plan in 2016. This plan includes the appointment of a and measure injury and illness rates worldwide. All 3M competent, trained coordinator at each 3M location employees and contingent employees, regardless of where there is potential for static discharge incidents; facility type but within 3M’s operational control, are creation of supporting procedures, instructions covered by our injury and illness recordkeeping rules. and knowledge documents; training for operators, In addition, contractors are asked to submit notification management, EHS personnel, and engineers who are to 3M of worker hours and any injuries occurring while responsible for design and mitigation efforts. In addition, performing work in accordance with a 3M contract. the Electrical and Management of Change (MOC) sections of the Global Safety and Health Plan Standard Details of 3M’s Healthy Living Program and other health have been updated to include new audit questions and and safety employee programs can be found in our explanations. Metrics will be collected to monitor the Employee Program section. progress of the program. 126 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 127 How We Work | Environmental Management Environmental Management Our Commitment Standard and our Global Climate Change Position Statement. G4 In 1975, 3M formalized its commitment to SD 14 ­environmental stewardship when the We are committed company’s Board of Directors adopted the 3M Environmental Policy. This policy established the to complying with all framework for our approach to responsible environmental management and conservation of resources, environmental requirements emphasizing prevention of pollution at the source. and regulations. Since then, we have created supporting policies using a 3M global operations are subject to environmental needs-driven process. When we identify potential risks laws and regulations, including those pertaining to air to the environment, health, and safety of our employees, emissions, wastewater and stormwater discharges, products, and communities, we take steps to modify hazardous substances or materials of concern, and the processes and standards that address these risks. handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Our strategy and resulting actions are demonstrated These laws and regulations are enforceable by national, in the following policies, positions, and standards: state and local authorities around the world. ­Environmental Policy, Energy Policy, Greenhouse Gas Management Standard, Product Carbon Footprint 3M's Acquisition, Divestures, and Mergers Standard Standard, Disposal of Chemical Waste Standard, Waste applies worldwide to all 3M acquisitions, mergers, Management Program Standard, Water Management divestitures, joint ventures and real estate transactions. 128 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 129 How We Work | Environmental Management All pending transactions are evaluated to identify EHS&S risks and regulatory compliance matters by the group and corporate levels. These scorecards are reviewed by executive management for performance on must address financial, technological, operational, and business considerations. The objectives and targets Environmental Investments Corporate Environmental Programs organization. selected indicators, enabling 3M to monitor and identify should be measurable and consistent with our environG4 In 2016, 3M expended about $28 million for 3M's strategies for sustainable development encompass successes, risks and opportunities for improvements and mental policy, including our commitments to prevent EN capital projects related to protecting the envireductions worldwide. pollution and be compliant with applicable regulations 31 ronment. This amount excludes expenditures the pursuit of customer satisfaction and commercial and other requirements to which we subscribe. for remediation actions relating to existing matters success within a framework of environmental, social and economic values. The company continues to make Environmental Incident 3M’s multifaceted strategy for implementing environcaused by past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues, which are expensed. Capital significant investments to reduce the environmental footprint of our operations; and our products with Management mental management systems and global auditing of environmental compliance for our operations is key to expenditures for environmental purposes have included pollution control devices—such as wastewater sustainable attributes help customers reduce their G4 Since 2010, all 3M locations globally are understanding any potential gaps and gaining resolution treatment plant improvements, scrubbers, containment environmental footprint and help to meet their SustainEN required to internally report environmental quickly. All manufacturing locations are required to structures, solvent recovery units and thermal ability goals. Always, 3M believes environmental policy 24, 29, 34 exceedances, spills, agency notices and fines complete a Global Environmental Management Self-Asoxidizers—at new and existing facilities constructed or and regulations should be guided by science-based through one dedicated system—3M's Worldwide sessment (GEMSA) at least annually, which consists of a upgraded in the normal course of business. Consistent decision making. Incident Management System (WIMS). This includes: detailed evaluation of the location’s systems alignment with the Company’s emphasis on environmental responfor assuring environmental compliance and management • Exceedances: emissions or other environmental sibility, capital expenditures (other than for remediation system performance. Among the topics covered in the Our Actions parameters above permitted or allowable regulaprojects) for known projects are presently expected to self-assessment: tory levels be about $70 million over the next two years for new or • Regulatory Applicability expanded programs to build facilities or modify manuSetting and implementing global environmental • Significant Spills: spills that are above a desigG4 • Regulatory Change Management facturing processes to minimize waste and reduce EN policies, management systems and key perfornated risk-level based on an internal company set • Air Regulatory Compliance and Conformance emissions. 27 mance metrics enables 3M to continually volume and threshold. • Air Emission Control Operations integrate and drive environmental stewardship into each Agency Notices: notices received by 3M for Environmental Site Assessment • of the company’s five business groups globally, assuring alleged deviations from an environmental regula• On-site Waste Management consistency and innovative environmental thinking. As tory or permitting requirement • Off-site Waste Recycle and Disposal G4 Outside 3M’s EMS and GEMSA, 3M has reflected by our environmental performance indicators and 2025 Sustainability Goals, environmental steward• Fines: compensation paid by 3M to address an • Wastewater EN completed environmental site assessments at administrative fine or penalty imposed by an • Rainwater and Stormwater 11-13 most locations with the goal of identifying ship is a core corporate commitment backed by decades environmental regulatory agency. Water Supply and Use • potential historical liabilities. As a result of these assessof proven performance. • Groundwater and Remediation ments, biodiverse areas may be identified. Where WIMS has led to continuous improvement related to • Storage Tanks applicable, a public database search is completed, which Management increased awareness of responsibilities, understanding • Energy Management includes a wetland database. Site visits also identify of the holistic system and more consistent reporting areas such as rivers, creeks and potential wetlands that 3M’s Environmental Management System requirements for 3M’s global operations. • Environmental Policy and Standards G4 are on or near the location. SO (EMS) framework provides structure and • Incident Prevention Reporting and Investigation Environmental Management 8 consistency for overseeing daily activities, and Incident Reporting and Investigation Applying ISO 14001 • puts the company in proactive, rather than reactive, • Planning and Goals mode regarding its environmental focus. We have Implementation • Training and Communications ISO 14001 provides a global framework for handling extensive global environmental data management environmental issues within an organization. 3M, in systems in place to identify, track and manage relevant Implementation of our EMS continues to increase The elements reflect procedures, systems and processes 2016, worked with an outside consultant to help indiinformation on corporate-wide environmental managethroughout the world and has translated into reduced that are comprehensive and mandatory to maintain vidual locations learn how to transition and recertify to ment and performance. This includes management costs through operating efficiency, improved envicompliance with legal or other requirements. Additional the latest standard, established in late 2015. As of the systems covering a full range of environmental complironmental compliance, reduced monitoring costs, ISO 14001 elements and associated questions are end of the year, one 3M location successfully completed ance and operational performance metrics relevant to reduced energy and waste disposal costs, and increased provided to enable sites to conduct further review certification to the new version of the standard. Addi3M operations, some of which are provided in employee activity. EMS is also expanding our Sustainof their EMS. Data from the assessments is validated tional locations will go through the re-certification audit this report. ability image around the globe, which has strong through audits, site visits by subject matter experts and over the next two years. financial benefits. other data systems. Information and performance data on a majority of these Locations that are certified account for approximately program elements are tracked and reported through Our approach calls for each site to establish, implement, 96.7 percent of 3M’s total product output. The corporate electronic reporting systems. Quarterly and maintain documented environmental objectives remaining locations are from new 3M acquisitions and/ scorecards report data at the facility, division, business and targets. When establishing an EMS plan, each site or 3M office/logistic centers. ISO 14001 certification 130 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 131 How We Work | Environmental Management scope is specific for each location. Our approach is to champion ownership at individual locations to produce – Internally developed compliance protocols, created by subject matter experts in regulatory On May 17-19, 2016, about 200 global 3M employees gathered in Minneapolis, Minnesota for the 3M EnviLooking forward… the best possible EMS results. programs and 3M processes ronmental Conference. This conference, the third since – 3M’s GEMSA as an evaluation tool 2010 and part of a long history of internal EHS conferUsing the power of mapping Third-Party Assurance – Externally purchased compliance protocols, ences, provided a forum for sharing best practices and learning about environmental compliance and optimized A concept developed in the 1960s primarily for agriof Sustainability Metric especially for international operations, to assure local compliance obligations are understood performance. More than 80 speakers presented cultural use, Global Information Systems (GIS) were originally used to collect and analyze the characteristics Reporting and met new ways to design waste out of our manufacturing processes and incorporate the full cost of waste into and potential for land used for growing crops. Today, it – Internal environmental compliance experts our planning processes, among many other topics. is being widely used to do the same kind of analysis, but Bureau Veritas (BV) provided independent third-party from around the company Attendees returned home with specific actions they through an environmental lens. 3M’s short-term goal is to verification of 3M’s 2016 environmental data (volatile could take to promote compliance, do their jobs more have location data that’s geospatial-referenced on a map organic compound emissions, water, waste, envi– External environmental consultants as needed efficiently, and reduce manufacturing costs and potential for specific global sites. Ultimately, our long-term goal is ronmental compliance metrics, energy consumption to provide additional expertise and third-party releases to the environment. to have the same information for every site worldwide. and greenhouse gas emissions) included in this 2017 verification of our auditing protocols ­Sustainability Report. – Complete and robust documentation of audit findings, assignment of responsibility and Self-Assessments and Auditing due dates for closure of findings, and detailed 2025 Goals Scorecard review of findings, to assure corrective actions 3M verifies regulatory compliance and alignment with are appropriate and sustainable prioritized sections of the self-assessment, conducting 3M Goal Goal Progress environmental-related audits on a risk-prioritized basis. 3M’s environmental auditing program is audited periodiIn 2016, these audits covered sites that manufactured cally by 3M’s Corporate Auditing department. Improve Global Energy Efficiency 937 956 30% 11.6 percent of total product output. Key objectives 656 of audits: Refining auditing management 2015 2016 2025 MMBTU per MM USD Net Sales In an effort to create more consistency in global auditing Managing Global Risk and Compliance of locations, 3M has refined its Compliance and Auditing Maintain Develop Manage risk Management and Metric Systems (CAMMS). CAMMS Increase Global Renewable Energy 25% 25% compliance environmental allows us to conduct internal compliance audits in the 0.50% 7.6% professionals context of applicable regulatory requirements and 2015 2016 2025 company policies and standards, and then using a risk Percentage of Total Electricity Purchase Share best Identify Build common assessment tool prioritize needs based on a number practices common areas understanding of factors, including the environmental footprint of for improvement of requirements the location and the number of years since its most Reduce Global Manufacturing Waste 5.16 5.33 4.64 10% recent audit. 2015 2016 2025 What comprises the auditing process: Metric Tons per MM USD Net Sales 2016 3M Environmental Conference • Manufacturing, distribution and laboratory operations are audited for environmental compliance Achieve 30% 28% 27% on a frequency based on relative risk global zero landfill status • At least annually, all global operations are at more than 30% of manufacturing sites. 2015 2016 2025 assessed against a variety of criteria to establish Percentage of Total Manufacturing Sites a prioritized list of locations for compliance auditing Reduce Global Water Use 10% 0.00141 0.00152 0.00127 • 3M uses a variety of tools and resources for compliance auditing, including: 2015 2016 2025 Million Cubic Meters per MM USD Net Sales 132 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 133 How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials Raw Materials Waste management and minimization is an important 2025 Goal: Reduce manufacturing waste by an component of 3M’s environmental stewardship. The 3M additional 10 percent, indexed to sales. Environmental Operations and Resource Recovery organizations provide corporate oversight for global waste management activities. We’ll continue to drive ‘zero waste’ thinking with our Our Commitment possible. Per the Standard, each 3M location has a Waste Management Coordinator who is responsible for coordinating appropriate waste training for all personnel. product designs and process technologies, as well as waste reduction work at our manufacturing operations. 2025 Goal: Achieve “zero landfill” status at more than The world’s population is growing larger, living 30 percent of manufacturing sites. G4 Compliance with all 3M and other regulated waste 3M Corporate Environmental Operations identifies SO 2 longer, and consuming more—which puts a requirements is evaluated through the internal environopportunities for efficiency improvement and measures strain on finite natural resources. To address mental auditing program. progress toward raw material usage and waste reduction this challenge, 3M continuously looks for ways to In addition to our waste reduction goal, we plan to goals for sites within our global manufacturing footprint. recover, reuse and recycle by-products and other waste Our Disposal of Chemical Waste Standard calls for increase repurposing, reusing and recycling of potential The results and raw data are used to identify, quantify material. We are moving from recyclable to renewable appropriate management and disposal of chemical waste materials to divert from landfill disposal. By the and prioritize projects to improve, utilizing Lean Six materials in our product and package design. (To learn waste, to manage risks and protect the environment. end of 2016, 26.6 percent of 3M sites had attained “zero Sigma Continuous Improvement methodology. more about this, turn to our Innovation Management This includes efforts to reduce the amount and hazards landfill” status. section.) Improving our raw material usage through of waste materials generated, to recycle or reuse those Results are reviewed quarterly and annually within A site receives zero landfill status when it has gone product design and operational considerations provides materials whenever practical, and to control waste regions, businesses and divisions against goals and a full calendar year without sending any waste to a cost benefits throughout our supply chain, in material disposal through final disposition. tracking metrics. Specialized teams work on a variety landfill. It will continue to be a zero landfill site as long use, energy, and transportation efficiency of projects and programs, ranging from basic office as no waste is sent to a landfill. Waste, as defined here, recycling to more complex projects such as developing The 3M Waste Management Standard applies to all 3M does not include ash generated from 3M material sent and capturing intrinsic waste materials generated off a locations and provides a framework for managing all to a waste-to-energy site or incineration. If material is manufacturing line. Through an evaluation process, all waste types from the time of generation until reused, inadvertently diverted to a landfill, 3M works with its aspects of waste reduction benefits or risk are reviewed. recycled, treated or disposed. The Standard sets a vendors to contractually prevent this from happening in baseline for several core waste program elements and the future. encourages waste minimization and recycling whenever 134 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 135 How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials G4 EN Our Actions 23 waste minimization and recycling at all our locations. One business’s by-product may connect as another business’s raw material. As we continue to grow interGlobal Waste Diversion by Type 2016 was another year of significant progress for 3M in nationally, integrating consistent, yet resourceful, waste Metric Tons reducing waste. On many fronts, much of this progress management practices in accordance to 3M standards can be attributed to a consistent, company-wide focus remains a key objective. on reuse, reduction and internal recycling, as well 350,000 as collaboration with our own technical community, As such, we continuously look for ways to recover, channel partners and civic and conservation leaders in reuse and recycle by-products and other waste material 300,000 communities where 3M operates. when feasible. And when it’s not usable, we responsibly dispose of waste materials. The concept of maximizing 250,000 Waste from manufacturing sites accounts for the raw material usage is important both internally and majority of waste in 3M’s environmental footprint. 3M’s externally to address the global challenge of resource waste metrics include 3M manufacturing operations 200,000 efficiency and scarcity. with total output greater than 4.54 metric tons per year (10,000 pounds) which represents 98 percent of Sales In addition to optimizing efficiencies in operational waste 150,000 Value of Production (SVOP) of our manufacturing sites. and recycling, 3M continues our long-standing commitments to efficient paper and packaging use. For nine 100,000 3M practices waste minimization whenever practical straight years, we have reduced designed packaging to reduce the amount and hazards of waste materials weight in the United States, for a cumulative reduction 50,000 generated. Between 2005 and 2016 there has been a of more than 13,000 metric tons. More than half of that 7.97 percent reduction in absolute total hazardous waste reduction was in paper-based packaging. Over the last 0 or a 25.2 percent reduction as compared to total waste. two years, global savings have been reviewed at the 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 3M is also dedicated to operating in accordance with corporate level. In 2016, our global designed packaging all regulations and managing waste materials safely and reduction was just under 4,000 metric tons. Waste-to-Energy Offsite Recycle Offsite Reuse* Onsite Recycle + Reuse* responsibly. All 3M locations are required to manage all returned, recycled, and waste materials from the time of *Does not include Onsite Recycle & Reuse and Offsite Reuse from 3M's Industrial Mineral Product (IMP) Division generation until reused, recycled, treated, or disposed. Pollution Prevention Pays We work closely with 3M Lean Six Sigma to increase The 3M Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) program is based waste reduction across all locations. Our waste Global Waste by Disposal Type on the belief that a prevention approach to pollution is Metric Tons indexed to net sales has decreased nearly 22.0 percent more environmentally effective, more socially acceptsince 2005. able and more economical than treatment. Begun more than 40 years ago, the program has prevented more 200,000 than 2.25 million short tons of pollutants and saved Maximizing Raw over $2 billion based on aggregated data from the first 150,000 Material Usage year of each 3P project. Success has been achieved thanks to voluntary participation from employees across 100,000 G4 Raw material usage is a measurement of overall the company, including research and development, EN 28 product and process yield throughout our manufacturing, logistics, transportation, and packaging. 50,000 manufacturing processes and is a key metric for Innovative projects are submitted and then reviewed and 3M. It’s indicative of operational excellence in our selected based on defined criteria by a 3P committee representing R&D; Engineering; Environmental, Health, 0 product design and manufacturing processes. Our raw material usage includes everything from the product, the Safety and Sustainability; Manufacturing; and Supply 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 process, and all by-products. Chain organizations. Selected project teams receive Treatment/Incineration Landfilled recognition for their achievement. The diversity of manufacturing technologies, processes *Waste no longer includes waste-to-energy and products at 3M provides opportunities for creative waste usage solutions for the Company. Accurate waste identification is a continuous education process and provides a foundational opportunity to further advance 136 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 137 How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials Global Waste 3P Global Pollution Prevention Achievements: 1975-2016 Metric Tons per MM USD Net Sales First Year Total Pollution Prevention Cumulative Totals, Short Tons 7.0 2016 6.0 2015 5.0 2014 4.0 2013 3.0 2012 2.0 2010 1.0 2005 0.0 2000 2005 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 *Waste no longer includes waste-to-energy 1995 1990 United States Package Design Waste 1985 Yearly Waste Prevented, Metric Tons 1980 3,000 1975 2,500 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 2,000 Total Air Pollution Total Waste Pollution Total Water Pollution Prevented Prevented Prevented � 1,500 1,000 500 As part of the program, 3M Industrial Mineral Products was named 2016 Division of the Year for successfully Zero Landfill 0 encouraging employees to reduce and eliminate Zero landfill is a goal that resonates with our local 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 pollution at its four facilities. Through their efforts, communities as well as our suppliers and customers. these employees prevented over 100,000 short tons of However, it has various definitions for different people pollution last year. To achieve this result, 3M employees and sites. We’ve spent a lot of time during our goal at each of the locations targeted a total of 14 projects development process benchmarking peer companies where they could eliminate waste through recycling and that span relevant business sectors and industries. And reuse. Their efforts contributed to saving a total of $1.26 we’ve chosen a holistic definition—Zero Landfill means million for the company during 2016. no waste is sent directly to a landfill from a 3M manufacturing site in a calendar year. While we want to have all 138 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 139 How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials sites divert waste from landfills and increase beneficial Results from kaizen waste reuse, this goal may not be financially or technically reduction events feasible for all locations in 3M. Kaizen is the Japanese word for “continuous improveOur site waste data is reported in the corporate Enviment.” In 2016, at two 3M U.S. locations, teams held ronmental Targets Database quarterly. At the corporate kaizen events to prioritize efforts that will reduce level, we report the percent of sites that have accommanufacturing waste. The events included plant walkplished Zero Landfill. This data is third-party validated throughs, waste-by-cause analyses and identification of at the site and corporate level. We also require the sites opportunities for improvement. We should begin to see meeting this goal to complete an internal assessment to real results from these promising events in 2017. assure accurate reporting. Part of the solution requires utilizing Lean Six Sigma We are evaluating applicability and business value of within a site to segregate and manage material flow for pursuing external certifications for zero landfill. waste streams and analyze the availability of internal and external waste handling alternatives. Looking forward… As sites identify opportunities to divert waste streams, it is critical to do this within our Corporate Waste ManageAligning with 3M’s Lean Six Sigma as a basis for driving ment Standard requirements. We want to protect 3M’s continuous improvement, the True Cost of Waste Black reputation while managing waste, and set up contracts Belt project was designed to assist in achieving 3M’s with our haulers and recyclers and/or w ­ aste-to-energy 2025 Sustainability goal of reducing manufacturing companies to make sure our material is handled waste by 10 percent as indexed to the company’s sales appropriately. at a facility level. By using the Lean Six Sigma tools, the project team quickly determined that a primary issue for manufacturing plants is lack of visibility regarding Packaging the quantity and cost of waste streams. The project In 2017, 3M plans to deploy a new software modeling used Business Transformation and our global Enterprise tool that will help engineers reduce waste in product #improvinglives means changing how industry works, from purification Resource Planning System to gain visibility into each packaging, evaluating design options from a life cycle manufacturing plant’s waste, thereby allowing plants to management point of view. A global pilot of the new better use Lean Six Sigma tools for project hoppering and prioritizing, and ultimately reducing waste. process and tool was conducted in 2016 with full roll-out occurring in 2017. to aerospace. We provide thousands of innovative products, from tapes and abrasives, to adhesives and filtration systems; helping solve some of the world’s biggest challenges across diverse markets. Industrial 140 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 141 How We Work | Environmental Management | Water Water strategic planning. This includes a broad risk oversight 2025 Goal: Reduce global water use by an additional by the Board and its committees, with committee-level 10 percent, indexed to sales. risk analyses reported to the full Board and executive-level internal auditor and Chief Compliance Officer appointed by, and reporting directly to, the Audit 3M operations must manage their water resources Committee. Our Commitment future consumer demands. In addition, water quality through compliance with regulatory requirements, 3M uses the definitions and tools established by the must comply with local regulations and be reliable in the conservation and reuse, and reporting of water World Business Council for Sustainable Development long term. usage internally. (WBCSD) to screen the Company’s various locations and their water use with validated WBCSD water availWater is an important component for the manufacturing With an eye on our footprint and the strength of our ability, population, and biodiversity information both on and support systems of several of our products. Because technologies and collaboration, we aim to continue 2025 Goal: Engage 100 percent of water-stressed/ a country and watershed basis. In 2016, 25 sites with of this, 3M continues to actively understand, manage to make a difference in water availability and quality scarce communities where 3M manufactures, on annual water use equal to or greater than 1,000 cubic and work toward reducing our corporate water footprint around the world. community-wide approaches to water management. meters were located in water-stressed areas as defined while providing innovative solutions to our customers. by the extremely high baseline water stress value We respect our ecological and ethical responsibility and (WBCSD-Global Water Tool). have a vested interest in preserving and improving water We partner with local communities to advance water Each 3M site located in a water-stressed area is required Water Quality and Availability availability and quality relative to our operations and the communities we serve. recycling and conservation. Ultimately, we aim to help these communities build and manage their own clean to understand its water use, associated business risks water efforts into the future. and impacts and to work with local water resources G4 Water is the most valuable natural resource for to understand potential impacts on the surrounding EN 22 life and thriving ecosystems; therefore, our 3M’s Water Management Standard provides a company-wide framework, including both general and specific area. Identified sites are also requested to do water planet’s consumption must be nurtured and thoughtfully managed. We recognize that reducing elements for water management. The standard requires Risk-Mitigation Planning conservation planning, outlining current and future water conservation efforts. Annual stress-level screening 3M operations to manage their water resources through water consumption in our operations and improving evaluations are conducted for global operations using understanding the balance of water use, compliance G4 G4 At 3M, we continually evaluate our water quality are important elements of optimizing our environmental stewardship. Quantitatively, the availwith regulatory requirements, systematic and prioritized EN SO approach to opportunity and risk. We available updates from the WBCSD Global Water Tool, conservation practices, and reporting usage. Water 9, 11-12, 14 2 believe the whole concept of risk an analysis of site operations and water usage and ability of water must meet the needs of current and local conditions. resources include water intake, effluent water discharge appetite and tolerance is an essential component of and rainwater. 142 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 143 How We Work | Environmental Management | Water Our Actions associated operations. We continue to improve our data accuracy through monitoring and measurement. Global Water Usage Million Cubic Meters G4 2016 was another year of significant progress, Water conservation efforts have been achieved through EN 9 on many fronts, for 3M’s water footprint. Much recycling, reuse, product redesigns and improvements of this progress can be attributed to a consisto our buildings and manufacturing processes. A 50 tent, company-wide focus on reuse, reduction and majority of our water-intense manufacturing operations internal recycling, as well as collaboration with our own are located in the U.S. and Europe, in areas that are not 45 technical community, channel partners and civic and water-stressed or water-scarce. However, they also conservation leaders in communities where 3M contribute significantly to our conservation efforts. As 40 operates. the Company continues to grow globally, thoughtful consideration is placed on the type of operations and 3M’s total water usage includes sanitary, process, availability of water sources. 35 heating, cooling, remediation, and other miscellaneous sources. Water usage data is tracked and reported 30 annually on a global basis for manufacturing sites that produce greater than 4.54 metric tons (10,000 pounds) Onboarding new 3M sites 25 of product per year. The reported data accounts for about water conservation. 98 percent of Sales Value of Production (SVOP) which 20 provides solid coverage of water use considered 3M utilizes the WBCSD Global Water Tool to determine material to 3M’s operational environmental footprint. if a new 3M site is in an area that has an extremely high baseline water stress value. If a site is in such an area, 15 Total water consumption has decreased 34.2 percent the company provides special training, and collects between 2005 and 2016 indexed to corporate-wide net water usage data to determine whether or not to include 10 sales. Results also indicate that a majority of 3M water this site as part of our water related goal for commuuse in operations is for processing products in manunity-wide engagement approaches towards water 5 facturing and heating or cooling of those processes and education advancement. If included, the site is made aware of additional requirements it must meet. 0 G4 2005 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 EN Looking forward… 8, 10 Global Water Withdrawal Global Water Usage 2016Global Percentage Water Withdrawal 2016 Percentage A 10-year plan to address global Million Cubic Meters per MM USD Net Sales water challenges. The focus of our 10-year strategic plan will not only be 0.003 on water use reduction. The plan also focuses on collaboration and social innovation in search of solutions for Surface emerging global water challenges. In addition, we will 25% consider the counterbalance between water reduction, 0.002 Surface water quality and water-related risks. A critical element 25% Groundwater of this plan was the establishment in 2016 of a Corporate 44% Water Conservation Steering Team with executive management sponsors. This team is reviewing policies, 0.001 Public Municipal Groundwater programs and procedures while expanding our internal 21% systems globally, to create, identify and share best Other 44% management practices related to water conservation. Sources 10% 0.000 2005 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Public Municipal 21% 144 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report Other #improvinglives | 145 Sources How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Climate and Energy For climate change strategy and GHG emission • Balance multiple country-level priorities, guidance, the Corporate EHS&S Committee has including energy reliability and independence, appointed a corporate Climate Change Steering Team. national security, and economic growth and employment • Include provisions that promote the efficient Public Policy Engagement allocation of emissions reductions and assure all Our Commitment 3. Extensive public policy engagement on both climate change and energy conservation 3M endorses voluntary approaches to GHG emissions sectors contribute to reduction targets, with the effect of allowing fair competition and avoiding 4. A decades-long track record of improving energy management. Any mandatory GHG emission reductions market distortions within industrial sectors or efficiency at our locations should be developed through international negotiations across national boundaries. We are transforming the way we use energy. and follow these policy principles: 5. Serving our customers through a wide Because energy impacts climate, and climate range of innovative products that help them • Apply broadly to countries or groups of countries, 3M is actively engaged in public policy development impacts everything. improve energy efficiency and reduce their and GHG emission sources to address climate change. One example: the National carbon footprint Climate Coalition (NCC). 3M is a founding member of • Be guided by science-based decision making NCC, an organization committed to dialogue and policy Through the years, 3M has been a proactive leader in • Utilize a consistent, market-based approach development with decision-makers in the United States addressing both the challenges and the opportunities EPA and many state agencies. presented by climate change and energy conservation. Executive-Level Commitment • Encourage investment and protect intellectual property to facilitate technology breakthroughs Climate change and energy efficiency are Include provisions for carbon emissions trading Risk-Mitigation Planning G4 • Our proactive leadership is best defined by five areas of action: SO 2 high-priority issues throughout 3M, up to the and/or alternative investment and compliance Corporate Operating Committee and CEO. The programs G4 Severe weather and long-term trends could 1. Executive-level commitment to these important Corporate Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustaintopics and our related principles, commitments ability (EHS&S) Committee has been empowered by • Provide full credit for early reductions in GHG EC 2 affect 3M’s operations and supply chain. To emissions address these and other risks, 3M maintains a and risk-mitigation planning efforts company leadership to take proactive steps and be systematic Business Continuity and Planning Process 2. Industry-leading efforts to reduce our own responsible for all final decisions on climate change and and Crisis Management Program which coordinates greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions energy strategy, including setting company reduction efforts of local crisis management teams maintained at goals and policies. each 3M location and international subsidiary. 146 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 147 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Corporate and local plans take into account natural disaster, infectious disease, employee safety, protection Energy management at 3M goes beyond energy‑­ efficiency efforts in factories and buildings. It is a team By conserving energy, reformulating products and controlling high global warming potential emissions, 3M Combined heat and power of assets, customer service and other business contieffort guided by the global Corporate Energy Policy has been able to achieve industry-leading GHG emission We also identified areas of focus that will make a nuity requirements. and coordinated by the Corporate Energy Managereductions. Other companies are setting goals to move step-change in the energy and carbon intensity of our ment team, with oversight by 3M’s Corporate Energy closer to the achievements we have already realized. operations. The implementation of combined heat and Supply chain risks are mitigated using a variety of Manager and Engineering Vice President, and active power systems and heat recovery systems at certain 3M management practices, including: support from the CEO. Team members come from Envilocations has a large potential to improve efficiency and • Multi-sourcing raw materials ronmental Operations, Location Operations, Finance, 2025 Goal: Help 3M customers reduce their GHGs by reduce our combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. The Sourcing, Engineering, Energy Management, Corporate 250 million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions through implementation of advanced energy information systems • Pre-qualification of potential outsource Marketing and Public Affairs. Each department provides use of 3M products. in our manufacturing locations is expected to give manufacturers cross-functional contributions, assuring that: operations personnel information they can use to more • Maintaining appropriate stocks of raw materials effectively manage energy use. • Energy-efficient technologies are being used • Contingency plans with key suppliers to assure While 3M has made significant GHG emission reduc• Opportunities are being identified in the design allocation to 3M in the event of supply disruption tions across our global operations, we realize we can process make far greater contributions by helping our customers ISO 50001 • Renewable energy opportunities are identified reduce their GHG emissions through the use of our Science-Based Targets and financed products. Additional information on how we work with The internationally recognized standard of ISO 50001 our customers, see Our Customers. and the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Superior 3M, as a science-based company, supports the • Data is tracked routinely and consistently by Energy Performance (SEP™) certifications aim to proactive approach of science-based GHG emission locations build a culture of energy management at the location, reduction targets. We have a long record of being where everyone is aware of their opportunities to Our Actions proactive on the matter of climate change, as demon3M reviews its Strategic Energy Management Plan increase energy efficiency in site operations; moving strated by our 67.3 percent absolute reduction in GHG annually to prioritize programs and meet global goals. from the mindset of delivering energy projects in a emissions from our operations through 2016, from a The plan uses input from stakeholders, including loosely organized fashion to a structured system of 2002 baseline. This ambitious reduction currently aligns manufacturing directors, plant managers, operations management. By integrating the systematic ISO-based with the concept of science-based goal setting, in that it employees and executive management. Goals of the plan: to continuously improve results, leverage Total Energy Use framework of plan-do-check-act for the management far exceeds the reductions called for to date in the Interof energy in on-site operations, our locations have seen governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth engineering expertise and advances, drive plant-level G4 Building on our 30 percent improvement in savings in energy costs and consumption, expansion of Assessment Report (AR4). See Looking forward below efficiency improvements, maintain top management EN energy efficiency between 2005 and 2015, our employee engagement, and increased visibility to the support, and protect 3M. 3, 5, 6 for additional information. 2025 goal is to increase energy efficiency by an tracking of site energy performance. 3M has been busy additional 30 percent indexed to net sales. This will increasing its ISO 50001 and SEP certified profile, with keep our global energy use nearly flat over the next 10 28 locations that are certified or are working towards 2025 Goal: Increase renewable energy to 25 percent years, as the company grows. 2025 Goal: Improve energy efficiency indexed to net certification to ISO 50001 and SEP 2016. sales by 30 percent. of total electricity use. Holding treasure hunts to find U.S. Department of Energy Recognizes Energy efficiency improvements help address rising Nearly 800,000 MWh of renewable energy use will conservation opportunities 3M’s Innovative Enterprise-Wide energy use, costs and climate impacts. be added globally. The primary sources of renewable Approach to ISO 50001 Certification energy will be wind and solar. In 2016, 3M conducted energy treasure hunts at eight 3M has taken a broad approach to managing our energy 3M locations, focused on building up energy-based In May of 2016, the DOE held a Better Buildings Summit footprint, which includes evaluating the impact of new project hoppers and, ultimately, making continuous in Washington D.C, where four companies including products and manufacturing processes as well as new 2025 Goal: Ensure GHG emissions at least 50 percent improvement toward the company’s 2025 Goals. 3M were recognized for achievements in ISO 50001 equipment and locations; and reducing the energy below our 2002 baseline, while growing our business. certifications. During this event, it was announced that footprint of our manufacturing and administrative Over $2.5 million of energy savings were identified at five 3M locations completed the certification process locations. In addition, we actively share information these locations, with active implementation strategies to ISO 50001. Included in the 3M enterprise-wide ISO about our energy management program with external being put in place for the higher priority projects. 50001 certificate will be these five locations, as well as 3M is in a leadership position due to our early actions, stakeholders, such as suppliers, customers and other beginning more than 10 years ago, to reduce our green3M Cordova which was initially certified in 2012 and interested organizations. house gas emissions. We are committed to continuing that leadership even as we grow the company, and to help our customers address the issue of climate change. 148 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 149 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy recertified to the Silver level in 2015. Moving forward, Global Energy Use enterprise-wide certification will include: MMBTU • Leverage of the already-developed implementation manual, standard operating procedures, corrective action/preventative actions reporting 30,000,000 system, and data analysis tools • Reduction in future audit costs through samplingbased audits 20,000,000 • Strengthening internal benchmarking and information sharing through networking and internal auditing • Reinforcement of systematic management of 10,000,000 energy at our top-consuming locations At time of certification in April, 2016, 3M ISO 50001-certified locations had achieved a collective 3M catches the wind in Texas 0 improvement in energy intensity of 10.5 percent. On February 9, 2016, Invenergy, a leading provider of 2005 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 renewable energy, signed an agreement to provide 3M 3M Canada is first Canadian with 120 megawatts of wind power from the Gunsight organization to be ISO 50001 Enterprise Wind Energy Center located in Texas. “This agreement Global Energy Use Level Certified is an important and significant step toward accomplishing our company goal of increasing renewable MMBTU per MM USD Net Sales It's through initiatives like ISO 50001 and Superior energy to 25 percent of our total electricity use by Energy Performance® (SEP™) certification that 3M can 2025,” said Jean Bennington Sweeney, vice president, 1,350 achieve its ambitious global Sustainability objectives, 3M Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability and said Richard Chartrand, 3M Canada executive director, CSO. “Perhaps even more importantly, this is an exciting Energy and Electronics Business Group and executive step in helping to transform the way the world uses 1,200 sponsor, Sustainability. energy. Innovation and partnerships like this one with Invenergy are critical to improving our business, our 1,050 planet and people’s lives across the globe.” Lighting Challenge 900 3M developed a Lighting Challenge for all of our Direct (Scope 1) and locations by taking advantage of the advancements 750 of light-emitting diode (LED) technology. 3M is in the Indirect (Scope 2) process of upgrading its lighting systems from conven600 G4 Since 2002, 3M has reduced Scope 1 GHG tional fluorescents and metal halide to the more efficient LED lighting where possible. These improvements will EN15-19 emissions by 75.3 percent, providing a direct 450 and immediate reduction in our impact on the increase the energy efficiency of the lighting systems environment. During this same timeframe, we have by 40 percent to over 300 percent in some cases. 300 achieved a 67.3 percent reduction in absolute Scope 1 It is estimated that over 250,000 lamps have been and 2 Location-based GHG emissions. What makes purchased for installation in 2016 with a continuing these reductions even more impressive is that they 150 effort in 2017. It is estimated that approximately $6 occurred even as the company grew sales and producmillion will be saved in energy costs globally throughout tion during this timeframe. 0 the 3M sites. 2005 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 150 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 151 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 1 and Scope 2 Indexed Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 1 and Scope 2 Million Metric Tons CO2 equivalents Metric Tons CO2 equivalents per MM USD Net Sales 20 1,200 New New Methodology Methodology 18 1,000 16 14 800 12 10 600 8 6 400 4 2 200 0 2002** 2005 2010 2012* 2013* 2014* 2015* 2016* 0 2002** 2005 2010 2012* 2013* 2014* 2015* 2016* Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Location Based Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Location Based (AR5/MRR Method) GHG Emissions (AR4 Method) GHG Emissions (AR5/MRR Method) (AR4 Method) Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Location Based Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Location Based **2012-2016 US EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG accounting. (AR5/MRR Method) GHG Emissions (AR4 Method) GHG Emissions **2002 inventory recalculated according to US EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% increase over original reported value) (AR5/MRR Method) (AR4 Method) **2012-2016 US EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG accounting. **2002 inventory recalculated according to US EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% increase over original reported value) The GHG inventory has been calculated from 2002 to the quality system elements required by ANSI/ISO/IEC the current year by the 3M Environmental Laboratory in 17025, including: accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI)/ • Internal audit program GHG emission reductions are achieved through a • Defined responsibilities and interrelationships of World Business Council for Sustainable Development • Documented and approved calculation variety of methods: improving process and equipment all key staff (WBCSD) GHG Protocol Corporate Greenhouse Gas procedures. efficiency, upgrading equipment, reducing our demand Accounting and Reporting Standard. The 3M Environ• Documentation of key personnel qualifications for energy use, increasing our use of renewable energy, mental Laboratory maintains an accreditation to ANSI/ • Control over quality system documents and These quality system elements coupled with third party and implementing and maintaining pollution control ISO/IEC 17025 through A2LA, an ILAC MRA signatory, procedures review of our emissions have assured that 3M’s GHG technologies. These methods, and more, are integral for a number of laboratory methods. Although it is not inventory is always in line with the five core principles to the company’s overall success and assist us with the • Control of records possible to put 3M’s GHG inventory methodology on of relevance, completeness, consistency, accuracy, and challenge of addressing climate change. the lab’s scope of accreditation, our calculation method• Corrective and preventive action system transparency. ology has been improved by working with a number of 152 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 153 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Greenhouse Gas Quality System The boundaries of the 3M product scenario are nature to gate or nature to grave, in which we include all emissions In 2016 alone, our customers avoided emitting about 13 million metric tons CO2 equivalents through use of from raw material extraction and purification, manufacvarious 3M product platforms calculated in accordance turing, and use. with the ISO 14064-2 and 3M Environmental Laboratory Relevance Completeness Consistency Accuracy Transparency standard operating procedures. In some of the studies, where appropriate, we include Clearly defined Strive to calculate Data based on Audit (internal and Report on GHG disposal of the 3M product. The 3M product scenario boundaries and report all GHG emissions; data approved scientific methods; should external) GHG emissions and emissions and activities uses high-level estimates and averages for manufacturing emissions (e.g. energy per pound of product Air Quality Management coverage 99+ methods change, calculations produced at a location). This allows these studies to be G4 An important component to 3M’s Sustainability percent of inventory 3M will, wherever completed more quickly, but at a higher uncertainty. EN strategy is our commitment to improving air possible, recalculate 21 quality globally. prior years’ inventory The boundaries of the baseline scenario match the 3M product scenario, except that we apply conservative As a company that uses many solvent-based materials, assumptions. Conservative is defined as a choice 3M inherently releases volatile organic compounds that creates a minimum in the GHG emissions of the (VOCs) from many of our manufacturing processes. baseline scenario. For example, if data does not exist Because of this, many of our locations require permits for a chemical in the baseline scenario, we assume the with rigorous VOC tracking requirements. Even where GHG Emissions from Our GHG emissions profile, making it impossible to reasonably estimate downstream emissions. emissions to be zero. tracking is not required from a regulatory perspective, 3M voluntarily tracks VOC usage and emissions from Suppliers and Customers The uncertainty for all the studies is ±50 percent. Although this sounds high, ±50 percent approximates major sources of emissions in order to identify further With the introduction of Business Transformation to (Scope 3) 3M, our systems are becoming more unified, and this is data of fair to good quality as defined in the WRI/ opportunities for reduction. 3M has developed internal programs to minimize its VOC emissions. We track and providing us with better data to more accurately judge WBCSD Product Life Cycle and Accounting Standard G4 3M has been developing our Scope 3 GHG report emissions based on raw material usage, engiand make decisions. It is also helping us create real, Quantitative Inventory Uncertainty Guide. EN4, 17, 30 emissions inventory since the publishing of the consistent changes throughout our global operations. neering estimates and stack test data. WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Value We expect Business Transformation to help drive our Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard in efforts to reduce all GHG emissions, including Scope 3 October 2011. We place a high value on sound science GHG emissions. and decision-making, so data reported is in accordance to the Standard. When the complexity of the supply Global Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions chain does not allow for direct calculation, an input‌/‌output model calculation method is used. Evaluating our Customer's Metric Tons per MM USD Net Sales For Scope 3 Categories 1 (Purchased Goods and Potential Greenhouse Gas 0.350 Services) and 2 (Capital Goods), a new model has been Reductions utilized since 2015, based on characteristics of the 3M has a process in place to estimate our claim 0.300 economy in 2014. The new model reflects the improved G4 carbon intensity, or emissions per dollar, of the economy. EN for customer GHG emission reductions based 7 on the use of 3M products. This process is 0.250 Since emissions prior to 2015 for these categories were based on the model available at the time (based on 2002 based on the ISO 14064-2 standard for determining economic data), data since 2015 is not directly compaGHG emissions reductions. The standard compares 0.200 rable to past years. emissions from the project scenario against a baseline scenario. The project scenario estimates the GHG 0.150 Categories 9, 10, 11, and 12 (related to emissions assoemissions including manufacturing and use of the 3M ciated with sold products) are challenging, due to the product. The baseline scenario covers the same 0.100 number and complexity of products we sell, and the function, but without the 3M product. In some cases, diversity of their uses by businesses and consumers there is no suitable replacement for the 3M product, so 0.050 across the globe. Many of our approximately 55,000the baseline scenario is the absence of the 3M plus product lines are “intermediates” with many product entirely. 0.000 potential downstream applications, each with a different 2005 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 154 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 155 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Air Emissions Reduction Program VOC by Location Looking forward… Given the above circumstances, 3M is now actively working to find a science-based target approach that (AERP) • 88 percent of our locations emit less than 100 3M is supporting the further implementation of ISO could be appropriately applied to a company with such tons per year VOC In 1987, to address corporate environmental responsi50001 though a collaborative effort with the Canadian, a broad set of product categories and markets served. bility for volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions, • 31 percent of our locations emit less than 1 ton Mexican and U.S. governments. Three 3M locations Moving forward, 3M will continue to track how the SBTI 3M voluntarily implemented an Air Emission Reduction per year VOC in these countries have joined a North American pilot expands their standard science-based goal methodology Program (AERP) that has produced dramatic reductions program, aiming to achieve certification through collabofferings, evaluating other options that may become of VOC emissions. oration by June 2017. available for applicability to our diverse operations. We Implementing and maintaining will also continue to strive toward the achievement of A major component of the AERP requires installation pollution control 3M has begun work to understand and evaluate methour four existing climate and energy related goals. of an emission control device or other equally effective odologies for setting a science-based GHG emission solution any time VOC emissions exceed 100 tons per 3M has made significant progress in reducing air target. One challenge is the current gap in availability of year. In 2015, only two 3M locations exceeded that emissions—at the source, and by improving process a certified or reference reduction scheme for all entities. threshold, and both have been effective in addressing efficiencies. Where emissions cannot be reduced within More specifically, we have evaluated the currently emissions in 2016. In fact, using different approaches, the process, 3M installs and maintains air emission available reduction methods provided by the Science each achieved voluntary emission reductions exceeding control equipment as required by federal, state and Based Targets Initiative (SBTI) and determined that these the requirements of state and federal regulations. local regulations. We evaluate all equipment options and may not support the operations of a large, highly diversiselect those that are the most environmentally effective fied entity such as 3M. The first is 3M Knoxville. Under the location’s Title V and cost-effective. Technologies include Thermal federal operating permit, a coating line could vent to Oxidization, Solvent Recovery, Carbon Adsorption, the atmosphere. However, a 2016 engineering project Biofiltration, Electrostatic Precipitators, Baghouses, re-routed emissions to the location’s existing RegenScrubbers and Cyclones. erative Thermal Oxidizer emission control unit instead of venting to the atmosphere. This change led to an 85 percent reduction in emissions from that coating line. Ozone Depleting Substances The second is 3M Menomonie. Although meeting G4 The Montreal Protocol is the first worldwide the emission limits under its Title V federal operating EN 20 agreement designed to protect human health permit, this location opted to reformulate several VOC-­ and the environment against the adverse effects containing products to a water-based coating, a change of the depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer. The that is expected to voluntarily reduce VOC emissions Protocol identifies the list of ozone depleting substances by 72 tons per year. (ODS) that are targeted for control practices, reductions, or total phase-outs and provides a phase-out schedule. For many 3M manufacturing processes, NOx, SO2, CO In addition, some countries have established regulations and PM are also emitted as products of combustion. regarding the management of refrigeration appliances. These pollutants are tracked and reported externally where required by federal, state or local regulations for 3M has set forth requirements in order to provide a individual locations. 3M internally tracks all fuel usage framework for how 3M operations are to manage their and calculates the combustion emission rates using refrigeration appliances containing ODS in the context accepted emission factors. of applicable international protocols, local regulations and current and future economic impacts. These Main VOC by Source Type requirements include conformance to the Montreal Protocol when applicable. • 3M’s VOC emissions are primarily attributed to coating lines • Reactors and mixing are also significant sources of VOC emissions 156 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 157 How We Work | Suppliers Suppliers Our Commitment to maximize the positives and mitigate the potential negatives by aligning our supplier expectations with our own corporate values. We expect our suppliers to be transparent about their environmental and social 2025 Goal: Drive supply chain Sustainability through practices, provide improvement ideas and work with us targeted raw material traceability and supplier to transform our shared supply chain when needed. performance assurance. Finally, we actively verify our suppliers’ performance against our expectations on a risk-prioritized basis, using our Due Diligence Management System, which is G4 We understand that our Sustainability impacts modeled after the OECD Guidelines for Multinational SD 12 extend beyond our own operations. By Enterprises. purchasing raw materials and services from small and large companies all over the world, we particiOur Due Diligence Management System consists of pate in a global, complex, supply chain. And it doesn’t the following elements, which aid with our continuous stop there. Our suppliers have their own suppliers, improvement efforts. extending back to the original source of each material we use. At each step in the supply chain, there are benefits (like employment and community-building) as well as the potential for negative impacts (like pollution or unsafe or unfair labor practices). Our commitment is 158 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 159 How We Work | Suppliers supplier vetting process includes review of the Code 3TG-related expectations as part of our Supplier expectations and confirmation that their programs and Responsibility Code. 3M expects its suppliers to adopt 3M Supply Chain Due Diligence Management System practices as well as their sub-contractors involved in the a similar policy and due diligence management system, supply of products and/or services conform to standards and require the same of their suppliers. that are consistent with the 3M Supplier Responsibility Code. Our contract agreements have included expecta3M is an active member of the Conflict-Free Sourcing Values Transparency Transformation Verification Report tions from our Supply Chain Policies, and they are being Initiative (CFSI), an organization established by EICC updated to incorporate the Code. and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (EICC-GeSI), establish strong identify and assess design and audit supply chain supply chain due which develops tools and guidance for companies on policies and risks in the supply implement a strategy due diligence diligence activities We expect our suppliers to establish and implement their conflict minerals. We encourage our suppliers and management chain to respond to own relevant policies and programs in alignment with other companies to participate in CFSI, to advance the systems identified risks this Code, and to enforce these expectations with their conflict-free sourcing of 3TG globally. own suppliers, thereby propagating our high Sustainability standards up our supply chains. Our membership in CFSI and various sub-teams such as the Smelter Engagement Team (SET), Plenary Team and special activities like the Due Diligence White Paper Additional Expectations for update have provided an opportunity for 3M to offer our ideas and learn from other member companies as we all Higher-risk Supply Chains work together on this important journey. Strong Policies aligned with • Health and Safety and Environment: we expect our suppliers to care as much about the safety of Our Supplier Responsibility We’re staying abreast of emerging legislation such as the our Values G4 G4 G4 their workers and their communities as much as EN EN LA Code represents the baseline European Commission’s regulation on conflict minerals, 3M does, and to implement proper procedures 13 33 15 expectations for all of our to assure that our conformance and due diligence G4 G4 G4 G4 In April 2016, we and controls to protect them. suppliers. Certain parts of our supply chains warrant management systems are aligned. Members of our EN HR32 10 LA 14 SO 9 updated our • Ethics: this section is aligned to the 3M Code additional formal expectations to drive more sustainable European Government Affairs team have been closely corporate responsiand responsible practices. 3M has prioritized forest aligned with industry and government to understand of Conduct, and holds our suppliers to the bility expectations for suppliers. The 3M Supplier products as one of those areas, due to potential environthe scope, impacts and timing of the new European same high standards of honesty and integrity. Responsibility Code outlines 3M’s basic expectations in mental risks like deforestation and threats to high regulation. The team has proactively assessed potential It expects our suppliers to prohibit any form of the following areas: conservation values, potential human rights issues like applicability so 3M will be best prepared to implement bribery and corruption, and prevent conflicts • Labor: this section is aligned with the 3M of interest. infringement of Indigenous peoples’ rights, and potential the new rule. Human Rights Policy, and includes important unsafe labor practices. As a global paper purchaser and • Management Systems: we expect our suppliers concepts like freely chosen employment (no Sustainability leader, 3M is well‑​positioned to positively forced, bonded or trafficked labor), restrictions to systematically conform to the 3M Code as well as all legal requirements, and to commit to influence practices throughout the forest products Supplier Risk Assessment & supply chain. We adopted our current Pulp and Paper on working age (no child labor), and appropriate working hours and wages. Among other updates, continuous improvement. Sourcing Policy in the spring of 2015 to set standards of Supply Chain Transparency we added more details on our expectations excellence for our suppliers and their suppliers through The Code is based on the 3M corporate values for G4 G4 3M's supply chain involves over for suppliers in the area of forced or bonded sustainable and responsible operations and aligns all tiers of supply to the forest. It’s designed to assure that the virgin wood fiber used in our paper-based EN SO 88,000 suppliers from more than 120 labor, such as no holding and denying access to with the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global 33 2 countries classified in 10 categories employees’ identity documents and no requireproducts and packaging comes from sources that Compact, of which 3M is a signatory. Our Code is also and over 200 sub-categories. The focus of our risk ments for workers to pay employers’ recruitment protect forests and respect the rights of workers and materially consistent with the Electronics Industry assessment is on goods-producing suppliers that feed fees. Setting these expectations helps assure people who live in or may depend on forests for Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct. In 2016, into our saleable products. These suppliers represent our suppliers’ actions will reflect 3M’s values on their livelihood. 3M’s Electronics and Energy Business Group became 25 percent, or almost about 22,000, 3M tier 1 Produchuman rights as well as the values underlying a member of EICC, a nonprofit group of the world’s tion Materials Suppliers and Contract Manufacturers. Another prioritized area in our raw material supply laws such as the California Transparency in leading electronics companies committed to improving network is in our sourcing of minerals, in particular tin, Supply Chains Act, the United Kingdom Modern social, ethical and environmental conditions in the global With such a diverse, broad global supply chain, it’s tantalum, tungsten and gold (3TG). 3M deplores the Slavery Act, and the U.S. Federal Acquisition electronics supply chain. important that we assess the relative potential environviolence and human rights abuses that have occurred Regulations (FAR) on forced labor and human mental and social risks within our supplier network, and in the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining trafficking. The Supplier Responsibility Code, as with our previous concentrate the majority of our Due Diligence Managecountries and is committed to supporting responsible 3M Supply Chain Policies, establishes 3M’s expectations ment System actions on the higher-risk supply chains. sourcing of 3TG from the region. Accordingly, 3M for new and existing suppliers anywhere in the world, has adopted a Conflict Minerals Policy, as well as and for any supplied material or service. Our new 160 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 161 How We Work | Suppliers Responsible Sourcing suppliers and peer companies to document as much of our global paper supply chain as possible, to amplify 2. identify additional diverse suppliers in our existing supply base by reviewing our top 3M has historically used industry indices to identify higher-risk supply chains and has recently adopted the of Minerals our efforts to drive sustainable practices throughout the ­non-diverse suppliers by spend category use of a data-driven software solution in conjunction supply chain. 3. find “new-to-3M” diverse suppliers with industry information and Lean Six Sigma tools to Annually, we work with each of our businesses that optimize and strengthen its risk management processes. purchase 3TG minerals to identify suppliers that should 4. further disrupt the status quo by working to The criteria matrix helps rank global suppliers, using be prioritized for engagement. We ask these prioritized suppliers to gather information on the 3TG smelters and Supplier Diversity move some of our tier 2 dollars to tier 1 and focusing on diverse suppliers in our request for multiple factors, to determine where assessments should be performed. refiners in their supply chains and report to us through G4 Equal access to business opportunities is not proposal (RFP) activity the current CFSI Conflict Minerals Reporting Template EC just deserved, it’s a priority. Regional (CMRT). Our supplier requests include links to 3M’s In 2016, 3M spent $1.4 billion dollars with small busiConflict Mineral Program 9 ­self-sufficiency is a focus area for 3M, and we Conflict Minerals website, which includes our Conflict recognize its importance for business reasons as well as nesses, representing 27 percent of our total US domestic Minerals Policy and 3M training on how to attach their in building connections with local communities. spend. We also spent $200 million dollars with diverse undergoes continuous suppliers, which represents 3.9 percent of total US CMRT template to 3M’s website survey tool. This website also directs suppliers to training resources Although we collect data around the proportion of spending on local suppliers at our significant locations of domestic spend. Our progress is routinely communiimprovements available through the CFSI. operation, this data is business confidential. cated to leadership across the organization. 3M’s Conflict Minerals program, now in its fourth year, We remain committed to supporting small business has gone through continuous improvement, based on 3M has a long-standing commitment to sustainable learnings from past campaigns and identifying ways Sustainable Pulp and Paper business practices and supporting the economic success and diverse suppliers and their positive impact on the economic viability of communities. 3M continues to to optimize and increase the effectiveness of program of our communities, including working with both diverse reassess elements of our approach, working across the activities. Our Pulp and Paper Sourcing Policy makes it clear that and small-business suppliers. For 3M purposes, a diverse we want to source paper products from suppliers who supplier is any supplier who qualifies for one or more of industry to glean best practices. In 2016, a new data collection method requesting share our values and are committed to protecting the the following classifications: Minority-owned business, suppliers to simply attach their CMRT in 3M’s More on our Supply Diversity program can be found in world’s forests. Annually we evaluate our suppliers of Women-owned business, Small Business (including web-based survey tool, has produced increased particithe Supplier Diversity section of 3M.com. pulp and paper raw materials, paper-based third-party Small Disadvantaged, HUBZone, Woman, and Veteran/ pation and quicker responses from suppliers. manufactured products, and paper-based packaging Service Disabled Veteran). to prioritize engagement with those most significant to Also, in an effort to improve supplier response rates, our business, and those with the possibility of supply chain entities of higher environmental or social risk. Our 3M proactively identifies diverse suppliers to procure goods and services, strongly encourages the use of diverse suppliers across our sourcing organization, Our Actions distributor engagement, and supply chain transparency, 3M worked with CFSI on distributor-related engagement hinges on extensive communication and due diligence and outreach. A survey sent to CFSI education of our suppliers on our policy expectations, and reaches out through our involvement with various members sought insight about current situations, best and inquiries regarding our suppliers’ policies and organizations, including the National Minority Supplier Responding to risks, practices and recommendations for obtaining necessary Development Council (NMSDC), Women’s Business systems to assess the Sustainability of their supplier network and conformance to our code and policy. We Enterprise National Council (WBENC), Metropolitan transforming our supply chains information from distributors. Responses to this survey will increase overall industry visibility of minerals in the also expect our suppliers to disclose the entities in their Economic Development Association (MEDA), Small complex supply chain, identify areas for additional due Business Administration (SBA), and others. G4 G4 We are constantly managing changes diligence efforts, and positively influence those areas of supply chain, all the way to the forest source. We believe that only through transparency can we truly identify SD SO12 2 in supply markets both where there is our supply chain. 3M establishes goals and regularly tracks the dollar an opportunity to extract value and potential Sustainability risks and collaborate to raise the value of goods and services purchased from small defensively where necessary to secure supply. As performance of our shared supply chains. businesses and diverse suppliers in concert with goals set annually with the U.S. Federal Government as part described above, we focus efforts on the salient issues in categories where human rights and environmental risks Paper Policy implementation In 2016, 3M began using a cloud-based platform to implement our information requests via online surveys of our Subcontracting Plan for Federal Government are the greatest, namely our use of certain minerals that identifies transformation contracting. have the potential to be sourced from conflict areas, and in a highly secure format. Our suppliers can provide complete supply chain information all the way to the our use of timber-based products and other plant opportunities To achieve our goals, 3M has implemented a four-part materials. More broadly, we conduct robust risk prioritiforest sources, or they can easily forward parts of the 3M depends on our suppliers to take responsibility for strategy aimed to: zation to determine other suppliers we will engage via an online survey to their suppliers for completion (paper or policy conformance, and we are impressed with the pulp mills, for example). We are actively working with assessment against our Supplier Responsibility Code. 1. increase our spend with current diverse suppliers leadership many of them are demonstrating. We are the cloud-based platform and our suppliers to make the by reviewing our existing diverse suppliers by motivated to retain and grow business with our most system as effective as possible. We aim to work with diversity category responsible and responsive suppliers. 162 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 163 How We Work | Suppliers a Supplier Corrective Action Request (SCAR) is estabPulp and Paper Sourcing Policy lished to assure appropriate resolution and conformance Engagement Status, Percentage with 3M’s requirements. If a supplier is unable to close the gap(s) within a reasonable timeframe, alternate actions are discussed with a cross-functional business 100 team to escalate and resolve the situation. Over 5,000 self-assessments or on-site audits of 80 suppliers have been conducted in prioritized countries, including China, India, Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand, Brazil, Mexico, Russia and Turkey in the past 60 seven years. 40 A pulp mill in Ontario, Canada Product Paper Minerals supply chain 20 assurance Packaging Paper CFSI develops standards for third party audits of smelters and refiners to validate their processes for 0 Overall assuring processed 3TG originates from sources that do 2015 2016 2017 target not fund conflict or support human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. 3M was an early contributor to the CFSI Initial Audit Throughout our policy implementation, we have seen in-person meetings, or field assessments at the mill Fund. The fund supports responsible sourcing of 3TG by several examples of marked improvements in responand/or forest level. We do not limit this engagement providing financial assistance to smelters for first-year sible sourcing practices as a result of our engagement to our direct suppliers. In fact, as appropriate, we will independent audits under the Conflict Free Smelter with suppliers. These include: work directly with tier 2 or tier 3 suppliers on policy (CFS) Assessment Program, in order to validate conflictconformance verification work, with a goal of involving free status according to CFS auditing protocols. • meeting with suppliers’ senior corporate execuour direct (tier 1) supplier(s) in these activities whenever Remote technology used to track harvesting activities tives on the importance of assuring responsible possible. In 2016, 3M and TFT conducted two field and sustainable supply chains, and agreeing to collaborate on that goal assessments of tier 2 pulp mills in our supply chain. In both cases, a key tier 1 supplier accompanied the Paper Policy implementation • suppliers establishing new Sustainability positions assessment. Read on for more information on these on the ground corrective action plans with reasonable timelines, within their companies assessments. and continue to collaborate with 3M on resolution of With TFT, we have conducted seven field assessments identified opportunities. More information on these • significant increases in supply chain traceability so far: three in China, one in Taiwan, one in Brazil, one in assessments can be found in our Pulp and Paper and transparency • increased engagement by our suppliers with their Verifying our Supplier Sweden and one in Canada. Two of those assessments were of tier 2 pulp mills, which were also attended by Sourcing Policy progress reports (linked below). upstream supply chain Performance a tier 1 supplier. 3M’s participation on supplier field We partner with The Forest Trust, TFT, for their G4 G4 G4 Aside from our pulp and paper assessments with TFT helps us to understand first-hand Reporting to our stakeholders the challenges faced by pulp and paper companies and expertise in responsible sourcing policies and improving EN HR 32 10-11 LA14-15 supplier-specific process, our forest managers around the world. This in turn enables For more information on our programs, see the following forest management practices across global supply general supplier risk assessus to actively participate in developing solutions and disclosures or 3M Supplier Direct: chains. They help us review the information we obtain ment process is applied to prioritized suppliers, which pushing forward conversations about responsible from our suppliers, and combine that with geography receive a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) based on • 3M’s Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report, SEC sourcing and sustainable forestry. and industry specific knowledge to conduct “desktop” the expectations in our Supplier Responsibility Code. Filings risk assessments of our supply chains. We use these The completed SAQ is reviewed by 3M personnel to Each assessment results in a comprehensive report • Pulp and Paper Sourcing Policy Progress Reports assessments to prioritize further engagement to learn determine if an on-site assessment is necessary. Assessdetailing the supplier’s performance against our • California Transparency in Supply Chain more about our suppliers’ responsible sourcing and ments cover the same content as the SAQ, and may be policy requirements, and action items to address any Disclosure sustainable forestry practices. This deeper engagement performed by 3M team members or third party performance gaps. We expect each supplier to develop could take the form of a series of web conferences, providers. If the assessment identifies gaps or findings, • UK Modern Slavery Act Disclosure 164 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 165 How We Work | Suppliers Conservation philanthropy This year, 3M recognized 11 suppliers among thousands in its global supply base for world class performance streamline existing processes and provide a higher level of assurance with 3M’s expectations and risk mitigation suppliers, educating them on the program as well as the need for their alignment with it—with the intent of posiIn addition to our policy implementation, 3M continues in providing products and/or services. These suppliers efforts. As appropriate, this process will be replicated tively influencing others to support responsible sourcing to work with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) were identified and rated based on strategic spend, in other higher-risk areas. practices and participate in the CFSI. to advance forestry conservation and best management contract compliance, actions taken to improve 3M’s relevance and overall supplier performance (quality, In our prioritized minerals and pulp and paper supply Finally, we are collaborating with providers who provide practices. One of our main partners in this endeavor delivery, responsiveness, cost, technology roadmaps). chains, we will be working to further institutionalize and in-region education and support to Artisanal and is The Nature Conservancy (TNC). From Australia 3M also presented awards to suppliers in the areas automate our supplier engagement and transparency Small-Scale Mining (ASM), to understand how we can to Canada, Indonesia to the United States, 3M has of Sustainability, Diversity and Ideation. An awards efforts, so that we can apply more time and resources best partner with them to make a direct impact in the supported TNC’s global conservation efforts for more ceremony and dinner were held on September 11th and to transformation projects that make on-the-ground DRC region. The impact could come from providing than two decades; support that has helped advance the 12th at 3M’s St. Paul campus. impacts. health and safety educational sessions and/or materials. Conservancy’s work to protect critical habitats and lands Another potential tactic: a video that demonstrates around the world, including safeguarding hundreds of We will continue to seek out partnerships to amplify success stories that come through multi-stakeholder millions of acres of forests. our efforts in combatting deforestation and exploitation Supplier Ideation around the world. groups working together and leveraging each other’s strengths. Recently, 3M committed significant initial and ongoing funds to TNC efforts in Indonesia’s East Kalimantan 3M has a process for its suppliers to submit improveIn our Conflict Minerals program, we will continue Province to protect nearly 80,000 square miles of a ment ideas that will benefit both operations from a to enhance our work as we refresh our due-diligence rare and biologically important rainforest. One of TNC’s technical, quality, responsiveness, delivery, cost, or practices. We are evaluating third party providers as most ambitious forest projects to date, the Conservancy Sustainability standpoint. Suppliers obtain access to the a way to streamline the process and leverage external is partnering with Indigenous communities in the area to system, and submit their ideas which are then reviewed expertise increasing the visibility and transparency address forest preservation, wildlife protection, species by the 3M category owner(s) who decide when to of our supply chain. We will continue to work with extinction, and climate change. engage on viable projects. This has been a valuable approach for 3M to collaborate with its suppliers and This project is also translating Reducing Emissions from continually improve its products and processes. Deforestation and Degradation (REDD)+—a mechanism that encourages the sustainable management of forests through the power of global carbon markets—into on-the-ground conservation results that protect trees Looking forward… Cumulative Supplier Assessments and combat climate change. We are actively seeking out opportunities to collaborate 6,000 with peer companies, customers, suppliers and other Collaboration for change partners to standardize supply chain Sustainability and corporate responsibility goals and toolsets. This will 5,000 3M Brazil is a signatory to The National Pact to Eradicate improve consistency and efficiencies across the value chain, resulting in greater synergy and impact. 4,000 Slave Labor, which was established in 2005, and is now institutionalized in InPACTO—the Institute for the National Pact—a trade association focused exclusively Among other 2017 initiatives, 3M is planning to 3,000 on collaborative efforts among members, including 3M, introduce a Supplier Declaration certificate that aligns committed to the goals of the National Pact. 3M also with its Supplier Responsibility Code. This certificate 2,000 prioritizes its suppliers to monitor and trace their supply will enable existing and potential new suppliers and their chain to meet 3M corporate values for sustainable and sub-contractors to confirm programs and practices they 1,000 responsible operations. follow are consistent with 3M’s Code. This process will augment our supplier assessment program, which we 0 will continue to strengthen and focus on salient issues in 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Supplier of the Year Award our supplier network, in alignment with our Code. To enhance our due diligence and risk management Our Supplier of the Year (SOY) award program seeks to activities in the Asia region, 3M is implementing a recognize those elite suppliers that proactively help us coordinated approach with its Supplier Responsibility succeed in accomplishing our Vision of 3M Technology Code, quality systems, cyber security and financial risk Advancing Every Company, 3M Products Enhancing assessments, initially focused on outsource suppliers Every Home and 3M Innovation Improving Every Life. for consumer goods. The coordinated approach will 166 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 167 What We Create | What We Create Introduction Our Customers Innovation Management 170 172 178 Our Products 184 168 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 169 What We Create | Introduction Introduction What we create. Our customers’ challenges are our challenges. Using our 46 technology platforms and collaborative culture, we invent products that help our customers solve the issues they are facing in many areas, including health, safety, and energy. And we are not stopping here. We have established a new set of aggressive goals for 2025, ranging from investing in sustainable materials and energy efficiency, to community-wide approaches to water management and helping our customers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. We have also set 2025 goals around building a diverse workforce and educating individuals on worker and patient safety in healthcare and industrial settings. 170 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 171 What We Create | Our Customers Our Customers Our Commitment and can be leveraged by any of the businesses to serve their respective customers or markets. Many companies view Sustainability in product Where many companies view the topic of Sustainability development as a challenge. At 3M, we see it as an in product development as a challenge, at 3M we have opportunity. Science is just science. Until you make it taken an offensive approach, working to identify and improve the world. That is what we at 3M strive to do understand future Sustainability needs, and to expand every day. Improve every life. our portfolio of products with Sustainability advantages. By embedding Sustainability into our R&D process, our That’s precisely why research and development (R&D) brands and the mindset of our suppliers and customers, is such a big thing at 3M. Always has been, always will we’re able to move 3M’s growth to new levels and be. In fact, in 2016, we invested $1.7 billion, or nearly 6 advance our commitment to improving our business, our percent of our sales back into R&D, an investment that planet and every life. helps produce more than 3,000 patents each year and, more importantly, helps connect our 46 technology platforms to real-world needs and opportunities. The unique thing about 3M is that no single business owns any of these platforms. They are owned by the Company 172 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 173 What We Create | Our Customers one global, seamlessly integrated platform of standardized business processes that help us: lifting up bandages to inspect wounds and IV sites. A simple idea struck him: Why not make the bandage Technical capabilities close 2025 Goal: Invest to develop more sustainable materials and products to help our customers reach • improve the quality and responsiveness of service transparent? That led to 3M’s market-leading medical to customers their environmental goals. dressings, which fit snug, breathe easy, and allow for delivery As an organization, we believe that the best way to painless inspection. • enhance on-demand and self-serve capabilities for acquire insights is to be close to the customers. With our customers that in mind, we have built a large global presence and We recognize some of our greatest positive impact “Insights to Innovation” (i2i) infrastructure as well as technical capabilities close to can be realized by helping our customers improve • promote collaboration and customer intimacy 3M works “eye-to-eye” with end-user customers to our customers. their environmental footprint. For that reason, an increased focus on delivering more sustainable In short, business transformation is helping us build invent solutions to their unique problems. We have 54 customer technical centers across the materials and components is core to our innovation strength on strength and drive to higher levels of globe where our customers can experience firsthand the This effort often makes use of the 3M Insights to and Sustainability strategy. customer satisfaction. breadth of 3M technologies and how they can benefit Innovation process, a process that involves exploration, optimization, validation and ideation, and ultimately from them. We also have labs in 36 countries where our allows new business teams to move from “I think” scientists work closely with our customers to develop 2025 Goal: Provide training to five million people Leveraging unique to “I know.” solutions for their specific problems. globally on worker and patient safety. capabilities to create value Insights to Innovation includes a close focus on both Some of the problems addressed in our technical centers for our customers global and local megatrends. The way we look at it, with and labs are connected to regional and local megatrends. Globally, for example, rapid population growth Proper use of health and safety products is critical to new market needs come new opportunities to deliver Technology itself is not sufficient to create differentiated value to our customer. in urban areas is creating challenges related to energy infection prevention, personal safety and overall health. products and solutions. Our innovation truly comes efficiency, clean water and environmental protection. Building on our existing customer education program, from the confluence of customer and market insights, Our local scientists leverage our technologies to develop we seek to help educate individuals on worker and technology and our culture of collaboration and entreprerelevant solutions that are unique to their region, often patient safety in both healthcare and industrial settings. neurship. We strive to invent things that are not only new, but useful. Our Actions That is why collaborating with customers is essential. It assures we are in tune with their needs. Our most successful products are infused with strategic customer insights throughout the entire product Technical Capabilities Close to Customers Thinking Customer First, development process. 54 customer technical centers and labs in 36 countries always. We have an initiative called Customer First that’s all We have two different models about understanding our customers’ business models, what they have promised their customers, and what our for gathering insights. role is in the value chain. Here are some examples of our Customer First approach in action: “Customer-inspired innovation” In 36 international labs—and in 54 technical centers— our scientists work directly with local customers to solve Business Transformation starts their unique challenges. We take the time to get to know and ends with our customers them, to learn how they live and work—and to understand what we can do to improve their lives. Customer technical center 3M Business Transformation is about establishing strong This includes challenges our customers have come to links between business processes, people and informaLaboratory us for help with, as well as challenges they didn’t even tion to provide a more positive overall experience for know they had, as the 3M scientist behind our creative customers. These links will occur through the creation of medical dressings can tell you. His division had a program that allowed scientists to be embedded in a hospital More than 100,000 customers visited this year. for an entire week. He repeatedly observed nurses 174 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 175 What We Create | Our Customers collaborating with local customers. One example: 3M scientists are working in the Greater China region to find Partnering in global worker solutions that improve air and water quality. Another and patient safety example: 3M’s Singapore Smart Urban Solutions Lab has focused on sustainable living, building on the regional In 2016, 3M hosted its second 3M Sustainability in need to address clean water, clean air, energy efficiency Health Care Summit, a forum for best practice sharing and more. and to advance Sustainability in Health Care. The event was attended by executives from more than 3M Nordic Customer Innovation Center 50 hospitals. Additional information can be found at: Sustainability in Health Care. 3M Romania Customer Innovation Center We also provide continuing education for healthcare 3M Italia Customer Innovation Center professionals through 3M's Health Care Academy. This free training and education resource is dedicated 3M South Africa Customer Innovation Center to helping professionals deepen their expertise and improve patient care. Topics include: Ambulatory Surgery, Auscultation, Edema Management, Hand Addressing Customer Hygiene, I.V. Site Care, Patient Monitoring, Professional Sustainability Expectations Development, Skin and Wound Care, Sterilization and Monitoring, and Surgical Solutions. We know many of our customers have strong Sustainability and corporate responsibility expectations for their suppliers, just as we do for ours. 3M always wants to Looking forward…. be the supplier of choice to our customers. As demonstrated in this report, we set our sights on world-class 3M continues to leverage its diversified technology performance in Sustainability and corporate responportfolio to create innovative solutions for our customers sibility, and we believe we meet or exceed customer and markets. We are evolving our technology platforms requirements in these areas. for the changing and anticipated needs of high-growth As proud as we are to share our Sustainability story markets, and we are augmenting our material science expertise with digital where appropriate to create value #improvinglives means making life easier and with our customers, we are also motivated to influence and encourage alignment and harmonization among the for our customers and for 3M. more productive at home and at work. proliferation of industry standards and partner to drive real Sustainability improvements where they are needed. We are creating innovative products that keep homes clean, offices organized, and buildings well-maintained. Consumer 176 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 177 What We Create | Innovation Management What We Create | Innovation Management Innovation Management Our Commitment internally developed and manufactured product. See our Code of Conduct section for more information on this Principle. Product Safety, Quality, and Life Cycle Management Stewardship Principle G4 3M’s Life Cycle Management (LCM) Policy G4 G4 G4 At 3M, product safety, quality, EN states that LCM evaluations are to be SD EN PR 27 and stewardship must always conducted on all new products before commer14 27 1-3, 6 be primary considerations cialization, and on a prioritized basis for existing during design, manufacture, marketing, and sales of 3M products. The LCM evaluation helps identify opportuniproducts. 3M employees must follow all applicable laws, ties associated with environmental, health and safety regulations, and 3M policies, standards, and procedures (EHS) performance. It also defines and manages EHS for product safety, quality, and stewardship and must risks and regulatory compliance throughout a product's report and respond to concerns in a diligent manner. life cycle and supply chain. We look at it as our responsibility to produce products 3M’s Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Standard, issued in with superior environmental performance across their 2014, defines how a product LCA must be conducted if entire life cycle, and to work with our suppliers and it is to be used for external communication. The standard business partners so that their operations support these requires that LCA data used externally must follow an same objectives. In addition, any product purchased internationally-recognized LCA standard, must include from an outside supplier for sale as a 3M product a quantitative uncertainty determination, and must have receives the same product life cycle consideration as an undergone independent internal and third party review. 178 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 179 What We Create | Innovation Management Potential Hazard 3M 15% culture supports Case in point: the 3M Tech Forum, a self-directed and self-organized catalyst for the 10,000-plus people Together, 3M’s NTI and NPI processes provide a common framework for technology and product Communication and individual initiative in 3M’s technical community. Begun more than 60 commercialization for all global business. Information Composition Disclosure Policy How does 3M produce a seemingly infinite stream of years ago, the Tech Forum gives 3M researchers the opportunity to compare notes with global colleagues, required at every step, or gate, in the process, varies with the inherent detail needed for deliverable tasks. new technologies that improve lives? It starts with the collaborate around the company’s 46 technology Having consistent practices throughout the company for G4 3M is committed to compliance with all appliway we innovate. And no one has shaped our innovation PR 2-3 cable laws and regulations in the conduct of our culture more than William McKnight. platforms and develop new ideas that fuel the 3M innovation pipeline. The collaborating takes place at an technology and product creation assists in risk analysis by providing a common language from which to share business activities, including the environmental, health, safety, and regulatory requirements for hazard annual global event, spring symposiums, recognition tools and best practices and manage project portfolios. McKnight was hired by 3M in 1907, as an assistant bookcommunication. Communicating the potential hazards of programs and many local events held throughout keeper. He rose through the ranks to become president 3M materials supports 3M's core values and is an the year. and chairman, ultimately serving until 1966. That’s six integral part of keeping stakeholders informed about 3M decades of reinforcing what we call the “McKnight Life Cycle Management materials. The vehicles for communicating these hazards Principles.” They boil down to this: include safety data sheets, product labels, product literDeliver efficient growth Life cycle management (LCM) is 3M’s approach to ature, transportation classification documentation, and As our business grows, it becomes increasingly assuring that EHS and associated regulatory considother communications tools. Per 3M policy, each necessary to delegate responsibility and to By leveraging strategic partnerships with several stakeerations are integrated into the development and business unit must evaluate the potential hazards of 3M encourage men and women to exercise their initiaholders internally and externally, 3M is able to transform commercialization of 3M products through 3M’s NPI materials and transmit, in local country language(s), tive. This requires considerable tolerance. Those diverse ideas and creativity into superior technologies, process. This includes consideration of EHS aspects of information about the hazards to employees, contracmen and women, to whom we delegate authority business assets, and innovative product platforms. product design, formulation, manufacture, marketing, tors, and customers, to meet all regulatory requirements and responsibility, if they are good people, are sales, use and disposal. Our New Technology Introduction (NTI) framework and 3M standards and guidelines, and to promote going to want to do their jobs in their own way. helps us manage the design and development of a new informed decisions about the materials’ proper and safe handling, use, and disposal. 3M Safety Data Sheets Mistakes will be made. But if a person is essentechnology which may be used in several different new products. Product Stewardship inform stakeholders of the product chemical compotially right, the mistakes he or she makes are not as serious in the long run as the mistakes manageG4 Responsibility for product stewardship at 3M is nents in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements and 3M standards and guidelines. ment will make if it undertakes to tell those in Meanwhile, our seven-phase New Product Introduction (NPI) process provides the robust framework for develPR 1 shared across a broad spectrum of functions authority exactly how they must do their jobs. positioned within businesses, regions, and oping products from idea to launch. corporate staff groups. Together, individuals across this Management that is destructively critical when Advertising and Product mistakes are made kills initiative.” Representation Policy At 3M, we have the freedom to take risks, and learn G4 It’s our policy to represent our products truthfrom our mistakes. That freedom is essential to scientific NTI Framework PR 3, 6 fully, fairly and accurately in all sales, discovery. It’s also what inspired McKnight to create 3M’s 15% culture, an environment in which people would Identify advertising, packaging and promotional efforts. have the freedom to spend 15% of their time on projects Identify superior product Develop Leadership of every 3M business unit is responsible for the market concepts to meet the technical Commercialize assuring appropriate review of advertising and claims that interest them. Still in use today, the 15% culture opportunity customer needs solution regarding respective business products and services. All allows scientists to take time to work on new ideas that might eventually become successful new 3M products. Post-Launch product claims must be substantiated and technically Explore Qualify Deploy Manage changes accurate to the end user as specified by the Advertising and Product Representation Policy. 3M’s Environmental Create Make Launch Marketing Claims Support Team assists businesses in the substantiation of environmental product claims and Our Actions Idea Concept Feasibility Develop Scale Up Execute is comprised of laboratory scientists, legal staff, life cycle management professionals and others with enviIdentify Identify Develop Optimize product Prepare for launch ronmental marketing and business expertise. Collaboration the market superior product the technical and test customer opportunity concepts to meet solution acceptance One of many things that makes 3M a singular company customer needs is our commitment to collaboration. There are no silos here. We collaborate with each other. Across businesses. Across technologies. Across oceans and continents. NPI Framework 180 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 181 What We Create | Innovation Management Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) Life Cycle Management In addition to the LCM program which applies to all 3M Research & products, we also complete ISO 14040-compliant LCAs Development for select 3M products. At 3M, we primarily complete cradle-to-gate LCAs, since the majority of our products have use and disposal life cycle stages that are difficult Raw Materials Manufacturing Acquisition & Production to characterize. We also complete cradle-to-gate LCAs for a number of internally-produced chemicals that are used in manufacturing of 3M products. While it is not possible to complete full LCAs for all 55,000-plus unique 3M products, evaluation of these intermediates allows us Disposal Distribution & to have a better understanding of the potential environRecycling Transportation mental impacts of key components and processes. Protect Use & Reuse Global certification of our Life Cycle Assessment process In 2016, 3M LCA teams in the U.S. and Europe renewed spectrum work to support 3M's core value of respect for their process certifications from The International EPD® our social and physical environment. System to demonstrate that appropriate procedures are in place to produce scientifically-sound, technicalProduct Responsibility Liaisons (PRLs) or Product ly-defensible LCAs and EPDs (Environmental Product Stewards, embedded within 3M businesses and countries Declarations). Rather than conduct independent thirdof operation, act as champions of EHS, Regulatory and party reviews for each individual product LCA or EPD, the Sustainability claims. They help assure our products meet teams will continue to undergo an annual recertification or exceed requirements stemming from 3M policies, governmental regulations and from our customers. process which evaluates conformance of the underlying management system with the program rules and ISO #improvinglives means enabling a connected In 2016, 3M expanded a pilot program begun in 2015, to standards. This global certification of the LCA process for world from energy and the grid to communications multiple parts of our organization is thought to be the first further enhance the extent to which our new products improve lives in socio-environmental terms. This program of its kind. It streamlines our processes and reduces time and electronics. and cost, which enables us to complete LCAs for a larger educates cross-functional teams on how to think about portion of our diverse product portfolio. improving the Sustainability attributes and applications of We are dedicated to creating products that improve not just the electronics we have today, products from before a new idea even gets drawn out on but our ability to innovate and advance the technology of tomorrow. From efficient electronic paper all the way through the finalization of the manufacturing scale-up and product launch. This builds on our Looking forward... devices, to dependable telecommunications networks, and ensuring reliable sources of power. long-standing LCM process to further integrate SustainWe are evolving our technology platforms for the ability into the core of who we are at 3M. changing and anticipated needs of high-growth markets, 3M employees have made it clear they value Sustainability and are augmenting our material science expertise with in product development. In a global employee survey digital where appropriate. These efforts are focused on conducted in 2013, they ranked sustainable product two different pathways: (1) enhancing our existing material ­development as the top Sustainability-related priority. products with digital to make them smart, connected and more useful for our customers; and (2) delivering software and digital solutions that improve workflow productivity and create value based on our in-depth knowledge of our customers’ processes. Electronics & Energy 182 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 183 What We Create | Our Products G4 SD 4, 8 Our Products $30.1 billion sales 3M serves customers through five business groups, which Consumer increases speed and efficiency Making life easier and more productive at home by sharing technology, and work Supplying an array of innovative products that keep homes cleaner, offices organized and manufacturing, marketing buildings well‑maintained, our consumer business is home to some of our most iconic brands and well-known products, including Post-it,® Scotch,® and other resources across all Scotch-Brite,® Filtrete,™ O-Cel-O,™ Nexcare,™ and Command.™ business groups. $4.48 billion sales 184 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 185 What We Create | Our Products Electronics & Energy Industrial Advancing a connected world From purification to by contributing to power, aerospace: changing how communications and electronics. industry works We turn 3M technology into difference-making We provide thousands of innovative products solutions for customers in electronics and energy including tapes, abrasives, adhesives, specialty markets around the world. We contribute to materials and filtration systems to dozens of reliable sources of power, enhanced-performance diverse markets—from aerospace and automotive electronic devices, and speedy and dependable to purification and construction to general telecommunications networks. We’re also improving manufacturing. All, with a transformed approach efficiency in renewable energy generation. And to customer engagement. our automotive electrification components are instrumental in making the connected car a reality. $4.83 billion sales $10.3 billion sales Health Care Safety & Graphics From preventing infections From protecting people and to making smiles brighter and information to adding impact to food safer communication Supplying innovative and reliable products that help Our products — personal protective equipment, health care professionals improve the quality and safety and security products, track and trace efficiency of care, we are a global leader in medical solutions and more — increase the safety, security and oral care products, and drug delivery and health and productivity of people, locations and systems information systems. We are also bringing enhanced around the world. Also, we inspire creative contaminant screening technology to the food communication and design with a broad portfolio safety table. of graphic solutions that enhance visual impact. $5.53 billion sales $5.66 billion sales 186 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 187 About Report | About Report Report Scope and Boundaries 190 GRI Index and UNGC 194 Assurance Statement 206 Metric Tables 212 188 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 189 About Report | Report Scope and Boundaries Report Scope and Boundaries Report Schedule and Period and fully integrated onto 3M systems. All data included in the report is global data unless otherwise specified. Current Issue: May 9, 2017 Any significant organization changes are identified in the Next Issue: Scheduled for May 2018 Annual Report 2016 and 2017 Notice of Annual Meeting Previous Issue: May 10, 2016 & Proxy Statement. Prior to 2010, 3M’s Sustainability Report was a fully integrated website. Therefore, copies prior to 2010 are Data Collection, Adjustments not available. and Verification This report provides a summary of the activities in fiscal year 2016 (January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2016). The data provided in this report through facts and figures is based on activities during 3M’s fiscal year 2016. For some performance indicators, the previous Organizational Boundaries year’s data is provided to allow for annual comparisons. This report covers 3M’s owned manufacturing facilities and leased facilities worldwide, including joint ventures Report Data Collection (if greater than 50 percent 3M ownership) and partially owned subsidiaries (if greater than 50 percent 3M Due to the size and geographical extent of our operownership) where 3M has full operational control. ations, it is at times difficult to obtain all data points. Acquisitions are included in data sets once legally owned Therefore, to the extent possible, limitations and 190 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 191 About Report | Report Scope and Boundaries assumptions are stated as information in the report. The data reported in this report has been reviewed for Base Year and Other Data Verification education and development. 3M self-declares the 2017 report as “In Accordance-Core.” accuracy and completeness, including the reliability of Adjustments Internal Verification: 3M has conducted an internal verithe systems used to obtain the data. fication of the information provided in this report. The 3M’s Annual Report 2016 and Investor Relations website United Nations Global Compact objectives for our assurance process included: Unless noted below, corporate staff have also verified document any changes to financial data. Several of 3M’s Communication on Progress the implementation of policies and management systems environmental goals are normalized per net sales. 3M • Accuracy and completeness of data through audits and self-reporting systems. does not adjust sales data for inflation. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative • Reliability of systems used to measure and record for businesses that are committed to aligning their • Financial Data: Financial information referenced 3M generally does not adjust its base-year envidata operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted in this report is collected and reported in ronmental metrics data to reflect changes in 3M’s • Reliability of ratios compiled from underlying data principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environaccordance with the United States Securities organizational structure. As a result, 3M sets enviment and anti-corruption. 3M committed to the UN • Adherence to the GRI G4 Reporting Guidelines and Exchange Commission through the Annual ronmental targets that are normalized or indexed to Global Compact principles in early 2014. This report Report 2016. production (tons emitted or net sales) to assure the envi• Implementation of internal policies and related includes an index of our Communication on Progress ronmental progress we report publically is not unduly management systems as reported • Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Data: implementing the 10 principles as well as alignment with The EHS data in this report is related to release to influenced by changes to our organizational structure. • Presentation of a complete and fair picture in the the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) the environment, safety performance, manageHowever, in the case of our greenhouse gas emissions report as a whole within the content of this 2017 Sustainability Report. ment systems implementation and regulatory data, 3M follows the World Resource Institute and World compliance. Data collection systems are in Business Council for Sustainable Development GHG Third-Party Verification: Bureau Veritas [“Assurance place at applicable sites to track and collect Protocol. Consequently, we readjust our greenhouse gas Provider”] provided independent third-party assurance Global Reporting Initiative Reporting environmental, health and safety data through emissions base-year data in the case of business acquisifor this report covering activities January 1, 2016 to Guidelines the corporate-wide EHS reporting systems (e.g., tions and divestitures. December 31, 2016. Bureau Veritas provided moderate level of assurance in accordance with AA100AS-2008, 3M has developed this report using the Global Reporting Environmental Targets Database, Worldwide In every case, 3M adjusts base-year and other years’ Type 2. Bureau Veritas’ assurance letter can be found in Initiatives’ G4 Guidelines. The GRI Index table outlines Incident Management System, etc.). data if data collection methods change or data errors are the report under Assurance Statement. where specific GRI reporting elements and indicators • Social Data: The data related to employee identified. Any significant changes in the measurement are addressed in the report. metrics, metrics, social practices, and community methods and/or data values applied to key environprograms has been derived from various databases from within the Human Resources mental metrics from previous years are documented within the report. Significant changes are defined by Global Principles and UN Global Compact Principles and UN and 3Mgives organizations. This data has been 3M’s Sustainability Report as changes greater than five Guidelines 2030 Sustainable Development Goals reviewed and verified by the departments percent of the original data point. responsible for maintaining the internal reporting Refer to the GRI Index table for cross-references of systems. Reporting year 2015 total propane values reflected Global Reporting Initiative content in this report with the 10 Principles of the UN in this report are 15.4 percent lower than previously Global Compact, as well as alignment with the UN 2030 • Responsible Sourcing Systems and Data: The The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based reported in our 2016 Sustainability Report. This change Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). policies and management systems implementaorganization that includes representatives from business, tion in this area has been reviewed and verified is due to a data error being identified during an internal government, labor, third-party advocacy groups and audit due to a facility using incorrect conversion factor by the departments responsible for maintaining academia. The GRI organization has developed a Contact 3M the internal reporting systems when inputting data into the Corporate system. framework for sustainability reporting. Following the GRI It is through collaboration and partnerships that Between 2005 and 2010, 3M adopted a holistic defiSustainability framework advances two important objecSites acquired by 3M are integrated into 3M programs 3M can accelerate Sustainability in our company to nition of waste to drive the company’s waste reduction tives: transparency and the ability to compare results and reporting systems via a prioritized functional improve every life. You can contact 3M Sustainability efforts toward more sustainable solutions, such as from one organization to another. 3M has developed this integration schedule. Timeframe for integration varies at ­Sustainability@mmm.com. pollution prevention. 3M’s waste reduction goal and report using GRI G4 Guidelines. The following GRI index depending on subject matter reporting requirements outlines where specific GRI reporting elements and progress during this period included recycling. In 2011, and site systems prior to being acquired; however, on indicators are addressed in the report or other reporting 3M returned to a more conventional definition of waste average integration ranges between one to three years. sources including the Annual Report 2016, 2017 Notice that considered recycling as neutral (contributing neither toward total waste nor toward good output). of Annual Meeting & Proxy or other noted sources on 3M’s Investor Relations website. 3M’s 2025 goal program utilizes 2015 as the base-year. Starting with this program, waste disposed and waste Our material aspects are identified in the GRI Index and by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. reflected in our 2025 goals with focus on raw materials, Total hazardous and total non-hazardous includes water, climate and energy, health and safety and waste-to-energy. 192 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 193 About Report | GRI Index SD General Standard Disclosure GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Message from our CEO 7 of the organization G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and Message from our CEO 7 opportunities Global Challenges 38 Materiality 40 Organization Profile GRI Index G4-3 Name of organization 3M Company 50 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Our Products 168 Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-7 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 3M Company 50 3M Center Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index St. Paul, Minnesota, United States G4-6 Number of countries operating in, and countries 70-plus 50 and UN Global Compact Report on Progress with significant operations Corporate Code of Conduct Annual Report, 10-K, page 10 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report, 10-K, page 4 G4-8 Markets served Our Products 168 Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-7 G4-9 Scale of organization Employee Programs 110 SD EC EN HR LA PR SO Sustainability Metric Tables 212 Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-7 G4-10 Total number of employees 91,600 UNGC Standard Economic Environment Human Rights Labor Product Society Principle 6 Disclosure Practices Responsibility Corporate Code of Conduct 90 SDG 8 Employee Programs 110 Health and Safety 120 Sustainability Metric Tables 212 Annual Report, 10-K, page 4 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 29 percent UNGC bargaining Principle 6 Human Rights 98 SDG 8 G4-12 Description of supply chain Suppliers 158 G4-13 Significant changes in organization during Annual Report, 10-K, pages 71-75 reporting period G4-14 Precautionary approach Global Challenges 38 Environmental Management 128 Innovation Management 178 194 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 195 About Report | GRI Index GRI Connections GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-15 External sustainability charters, principles or initiatives Stakeholders Human Rights 66 98 Governance G4-16 List memberships of associations and Stakeholders 66 G4-34 Governance structure Corporate Governance 80 organizations G4-35 Delegation of authority for sustainability topics Corporate Governance 80 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-36 Executive level position for sustainability topics Corporate Governance 80 G4-17 Entities in consolidated financial statement Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-10 and 71-75 G4-37 Process for stakeholder feedback to highest Corporate Governance 80 SDG 16 governance body G4-18 Process for defining the report content and Materiality 40 Aspect Boundaries G4-38 Composition of board Corporate Governance 80 SDG 5, 16 3M Board of Directors G4-19 Material Aspects Materiality 40 3M Committee Composition G4-20 Aspect boundary within Materiality 40 G4-39 Chair is executive officer Inge G. Thulin, Chairman of the Board and 7 SDG 16 Chief Executive Officer G4-21 Aspect boundary outside Materiality 40 Corporate Governance 80 G4-22 Effect of restatement of information About Report 188 G4-40 Nomination and selection process for board Corporate Governance 80 SDG 5, 16 3M Company Board of Directors G4-23 Report significant changes in the Scope and No significant changes to applicable Nominating and Governance Aspect Boundaries operational boundaries, scope or measurement Committee Charter methodology. G4-41 Conflicts of interest avoidance for board Corporate Governance 80 SDG 16 Stakeholder Engagement G4-42 Governance body’s role in development of Corporate Governance 80 values, mission statement, etc. G4-24 List of stakeholders engaged Stakeholders 66 G4-43 Measures to improve board’s understanding of Corporate Governance 80 sustainability impacts G4-25 Basis for stakeholder identification Stakeholders 66 G4-44 Evaluation of board with respect to sustainability Corporate Governance 80 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders 66 impacts G4-27 Key topics of concern raised by stakeholders Materiality 40 G4-45 Board’s role in identification and management Corporate Governance 80 SDG 16 of sustainability risks Report Profile G4-46 Board’s role in reviewing organization's risk management for sustainability risks Corporate Governance Enterprise Risk 80 86 G4-28 Reporting period About Report 188 G4-47 Frequency of the board’s review of sustainability Corporate Governance 80 risks G4-29 Date of most previous report About Report 188 G4-48 Highest governing body’s role in reviewing report Corporate Governance 80 and material aspects. G4-30 Reporting cycle About Report 188 G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to Corporate Governance 80 G4-31 Contact point for questions About Report 188 board G4-32 In accordance option About Report 188 G4-50 Nature and number of concerns reported to This information is considered Business board Confidential. G4-33 External assurance for report About Report 188 External Assurance Statement 206 G4-51 Remuneration policy for board Compensation 106 196 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 197 About Report | GRI Index GRI Connections GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-52 Process for determining remuneration of board Compensation 106 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Communities 58 SDG 2, 5, 7, 9 investments G4-53 Stakeholders’ views sought for board Compensation 106 SDG 16 remuneration policies 2017 Proxy G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including Communities 58 SDG 8, 10, 17 extent G4-54 Ratio of annual compensation for highest paid The ratio of CEO pay to other positions is not a individual versus median labor indicator currently tracked and disclosed. G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supplier spend by location is considered SDG 12 Our practice is to set pay targets at all levels, Business Confidential from the CEO on down, based on competitive external market data. G4-55 Percentage increase of compensation for highest paid individual The ratio of CEO pay to other positions is not a labor indicator currently tracked and disclosed. EN Environment Our practice is to set pay targets at all levels, from the CEO on down, based on competitive external market data. GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-56 Organization’s values, principles and standards Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC Principle 10 SDG 16 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight and volume Due to the diversity and complexity of manufacturing of 3M’s products and associated materials portfolio, this data is not G4-57 Mechanisms for seeking advice on organizational Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC collected (by weight/volume) and aggregated integrity Principle 10 SDG 16 to the extent it would indicate relevance at a corporate level. G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC unethical behavior Principle 10 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Due to the diversity and complexity of SDG 16 input materials manufacturing of 3M’s products and associated materials portfolio, this data is not collected (percent of recycled materials) and aggregated to the extent it would indicate EC Economic relevance at a corporate level. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Climate and Energy 146 UNGC 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 7, 8 SDG 7, 8, 12, GRI Connections 13 GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Climate and Energy 146 UNGC 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 8 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2016 Metrics 212 SDG 2, 5, 7, SDG 7, 8, 12, 3M Interactive Analyst Center 8, 9 13 G4-EC2 Financial risks due to climate change Climate Change and Energy 146 SDG 13 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Climate and Energy 146 UNGC Annual Report, 10-K, pages 10-11 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 8 SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 G4-EC3 Coverage of benefits plan obligations Employee Programs 110 Annual Report, 10K, pages 89-100 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Climate and Energy 146 UNGC 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 8 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 3M does not receive significant financial SDG 7, 8, 12, assistance from the government. For some 13 information about tax holidays and the U.S. research and development credit, refer to Note 8, Income Taxes, in Annual Report, 10-K, G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Climate and Energy 147 UNGC pages 81 to 85. and services Product Carbon Footprint Standard Principle 8, 9 SDG 7, 8, 11, 12, 13 G4-EC5 Ratio of entry level wage by gender compared to 3M sets and administers compensation based local minimum wage on external market competitiveness without regard to gender G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water 142 UNGC 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 7, 8 SDG 6 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from This information is considered Business local community Confidential. 198 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 199 About Report | GRI Index GRI Connections GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-EN9 Water sources significant affected by withdrawal Water 142 UNGC G4-EN22 Total water discharged by quality and destination 3M 2025 water goals are focused on water Principle 8 conservation and community engagement. SDG 6 The 3M Business Conduct requirements and the Environmental Policy require compliance with all applicable jurisdictional laws and G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Water 142 UNGC regulations, including those on water and reused Principle 8 discharge. SDG 6, 8, 12 G4-EN11 Operational sites near protected or high Water 142 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Raw Materials 134 UNGC disposal method 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 8 biodiversity areas SDG 3, 6, 12 G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity Environmental Management 128 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental Management 128 UNGC Water 142 3M did not have any significant spills in 2016 Principle 8 that met the GRI definition of reportable in the SDG 3, 6, 12, Significant impacts on biodiversity would be 14 organizations financial report (due to resulting discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K liabilities). G4-EN13 Habitats protected Communities 58 UNGC G4-EN25 Weight of hazardous waste 2016 Metrics 212 Environmental Management 128 Principle 8 The 3M Business Conduct requirements and Supply Chain 158 the Environmental Policy require compliance with all applicable jurisdictional laws and G4-EN14 Endangered species habitats near Water 142 regulations, including those on hazardous operational sites 3M conducts environmental assessments of waste transportation. our operational sites, whereby biodiverse areas may be identified. Where applicable, a public G4-EN26 Water bodies affected by organization’s water 3M conducts environmental assessments of database search is completed, which includes discharges our operational sites, whereby biodiverse areas a wetland database. Site visits also identify may be identified. Where applicable, a public rivers, creeks, potential wetlands, etc that are database search is completed, which includes on or near the facility being assessed. a wetland database. Site visits also identify rivers, creeks, potential wetlands, etc. that are G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions Climate and Energy 146 UNGC on or near the facility being assessed. 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 7, 8 SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products Innovation Management 178 UNGC Principle 7, 8, 3M Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship 9 SDG 6, 8, 12, G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions Climate and Energy 146 UNGC Principle 13, 14, 15 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 7, 8 SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 G4-EN28 Percentage of products and packaging materials Raw Materials 134 UNGC that are reclaimed Principle 8 SDG 8, 12 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions Climate and Energy 146 UNGC 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 7, 8 SDG 3, 12, 13, G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with environmental Environmental Management 128 UNGC 14, 15 regulation 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 8 SDG 8, 16 G4-EN18 GHG consumption intensity Climate and Energy 146 UNGC 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 8 G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting products Climate and Energy 146 UNGC SDG 13, 14, 15 and members of workforce 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 8 SDG 11, 13 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate and Energy 146 UNGC 2016 Metrics 212 Principle 8, 9 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and Environmental Management 128 SDG 13, 14, 15 investments by type G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone depleting substances Climate and Energy 146 UNGC G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Suppliers 158 UNGC Principle 7, 8 environmental criteria Principle 8 SDG 3, 12 G4-EN33 Negative environmental impacts in the supply Suppliers 158 UNGC G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Climate and Energy 146 UNGC chain and actions taken Principle 8 Principle 7, SDG 15 8 SDG 3, 12, 14, 15 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental This information is considered Business impacts Confidential. 200 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 201 About Report | GRI Index HR Human Rights LA Labor Practices and Decent Work GRI Connections GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC G4-LA1 Employee hires and turn over Employee Programs 110 UNGC include human rights clauses Investment agreements are subject to 3M Principle 2 Principle 6 Business Conduct Policies and Guidelines SDG 5, 8 G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights Human Rights 98 UNGC G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employee Programs 110 SDG 8 Principle 1 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention after parental leave Employee Programs 110 UNGC G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective action This information is considered Business Principle 6 Confidential. SDG 5, 8 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Employee Programs 110 UNGC freedom of association may be violated Human Rights 98 Principle 3 changes Principle 3 3M Supplier Responsibility Code SDG 8 SDG 8 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers with risk of child labor Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC G4-LA5 Workers represented by management-worker Health and Safety 120 SDG 8 Human Rights 98 Principle 5 health and safety committees 3M Supplier Responsibility Code SDG 8, 16 G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, lost days, work-related Health and Safety 120 SDG 3, 8 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers with risk of compulsory Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC fatalities 2016 Metrics 212 labor Human Rights 98 Principle 4 3M Supplier Responsibility Code SDG 8 G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of We are always taking steps to protect our SDG 3, 8 diseases related to their work most important asset – 3M employees. Our G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Human Rights 98 UNGC innovations are only possible with the minds, organization’s human rights policies Principle 1 talent and commitment of all of our employees SDG 16 worldwide, so we put a lot of thought and effort into keeping them safe and healthy. Our robust Safety and Health Policy applies to all 3M G4-HR8 Indigenous rights violations To the best of our knowledge, there were no UNGC operations. incidents reported to Compliance and Business Principle 1 Conduct Department related to the rights of Indigenous people in 2016. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in agreements This information is considered Business with trade unions Confidential. G4-HR9 Number and percentage of operations that have Human Rights 98 UNGC been assessed for human rights Principle 1 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee Employee Programs 110 UNGC Principle 6 Although 3M tracks some training hours, it is SDG 8 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Suppliers 158 UNGC not consistent globally. 3M believes indicators human rights criteria Principle 2 that align results of the people with success of the Company are direct indicators of successful development programs. G4-HR11 Negative human rights impacts in the supply Suppliers 158 UNGC chain and actions taken Principle 2 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Employee Programs 110 SDG 8 learning G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights This information is considered Business impacts filed Confidential. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Employee Programs 110 UNGC performance reviews Principle 6 SDG 5, 8 G4-LA12 Employees by category for diversity indicators Diversity and Inclusion 70 UNGC Employee Programs 110 Principle 6 SDG 5, 8 G4-LA13 Remuneration of men to women by employee 3M sets and administers compensation based UNGC category on external market competitiveness without Principle 6 regard to gender. SDG 8, 10 202 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 203 About Report | GRI Index GRI Connections SO Society GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Suppliers 158 SDG 5, 8, 16 labor practices criteria GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN G4-LA15 Negative labor practices impacts in the supply Suppliers 158 SDG 8, 16 Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* chain and actions taken G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with local community Communities 58 UNGC G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices This information is considered Business engagement, etc Principle 1 Confidential. G4-SO2 Operations with significant impact on local Environmental Management 128 UNGC communities Raw Materials 134 Principle 1 PR Product Responsibility Water 142 Climate and Energy 146 Suppliers 158 Human Rights 98 GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* related to corruption Be Honest Principle 10 SDG 16 G4-PR1 Percentage of product categories for which Innovation Management 178 health and safety impacts are assessed/ 3M Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship G4-SO4 Communications and training of anti-corruption Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC policies Be Honest Principle 10 improved Principle SDG 16 G4-PR2 Grievances about labor practices Corporate Code of Conduct 90 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC Innovation Management 178 taken Principle 10 3M Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship SDG 16 Principle G4-SO6 Value of political contributions by country and Corporate Code of Conduct 90 UNGC G4-PR3 Organization’s procedures for product labeling Corporate Code of Conduct 90 SDG 12 recipient Lobbying and Political Activities Principle Principle 10 Innovation Management 178 Political Activities and Issue Advocacy SDG 16 3M Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship Principle Advertising and Product Representation G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Significant legal actions for anti-competitive Principle behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K G4-PR4 Number of incidents for non-compliance with Significant non-compliance with labeling would SDG 16 labeling be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Environmental Management Significant fines SDG 16 would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K G4-PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys This information is considered Business Confidential. G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened for Suppliers 158 impacts on society G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Innovation Management 178 3M Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply chain This information is considered Business Principle and actions taken Confidential. Advertising and Product Representation Principle G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society This information is considered Business Confidential. G4-PR7 Non-compliance concerning marketing Significant non-compliance concerning market communications communications would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K Disclosure Levels G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 3M respects customers’ right to privacy: see Full Not Disclosed *United Nations Global Compact Principles *United Nations Sustainable Development Goals customer privacy 3M Global Internet Privacy Policy. Significant non-compliance concerning substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K G4-PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with Significant fines for non-compliance with SDG 16 provision and use of product provision and use of product would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K 204 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 205 About Report | Assurance Statement INDEPE ENDENT ASSURANA NCE STAT TEMENT Assurance Intrroduction and a objectives of worrk Bureeau Veritas North N Americca, Inc. (Bure eau Veritas) was engage ed by 3M Co orporation (3M M) to cond duct an inde ependent assurance of its i 2017 3M Sustainabiliity Report (tthe Report). This Assu urance State ement applie es to the related information include ed within the scope of work desccribed below w. The intend ded users of the assurancce statement are the sta akeholders off 3M. Statement The overall aim of this proce ess is to provvide assurance to 3M’s stakeholders s on the accuracy, relia ability and obbjectivity of th he informatio on included in n the Reportt as describe ed in the scoppe of workk. The asssurance process also evaluated 3M’s 3 manag gement of sustainabilitty in acco ordance with h the principle es of inclusivvity, materialiity and respo onsiveness. The information that was asssured and itss presentatio on in the Rep port are the sole s responsibility he managem of th ment of 3M. Bureau B Verittas was not involved in th he drafting of the Report. Our solee responsibilitty was to pro ovide independent assura ance on its content. c Sco ope of work k 3M rrequested Bu ureau Veritas to include in its indepen ndent assuraance the follo owing:  Data inccluded in the e Report for the calendarr year 2016 reporting pe eriod as showwn in the attacched Summa ary of Assure ed Informatioon;  Approprriateness and robustnesss of underlying reportin ng systems and processses, used to collect, analyyze and revie ew the data subject to the assurance e process; annd  Evaluation of the Report R in acccordance w with the Assu urance Stan ndard AA100 00AS (2008)1 Type 2 assurance. Exclluded from th he scope of ouro work is anya assurancce of informa ation relating to:  Text or other o written statements associated with w the Repo ort;  Activitiess outside thee defined asssurance perio od; and  Financia al data and data reporte ed that is no ot included in the Summ mary of Asssured Informattion. Metthodology Bureeau Veritas undertook u thee following activities: a 1. Interviews with relevant personnel of 3M (in ncluding man nagers and staff s membe ers at the corpporate and site level); 2. Review w of internal and a external documentaryy evidence produced p by 3M; 3. Audit off performancce data pressented in the e Report including a detailed review of a sample of data; 4. Visits to t manufactturing sites located in Brownwood d, Texas; Brookings, B S South Dakota; Menomonie e, Wisconsin; and Cumbe erland, Wisconsin; 5. Remote e data revie ews for man s nufacturing sites located d in Nevada a, Missouri; Little Rock, Arkansas; A Higgashine, Jap pan; and Tillooy, France; 6. Visit to 3M headqua arters office located in Ma aplewood, Minnesota; M an nd 1 Pubblished by AcccountAbility: The T Institute off Social and Ethical E Accoun ntability 206 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report 7. Review of 3M data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and  Community involvement and giving C g is evidencced by imp plementation of Stakeho older internal verification and review. Engagement Plans. 3M provides com E mmunity sup pport through h Visiting Wizards, and many m o other engage ements in the e community. Corporatelly, the 3M Fo oundation provides funding to The work was planned and carried out to provide a moderate level of assurance and we a variety of reecipients. believe it provides a sound basis for our conclusions.  S Systems for collecting c and compiling data appear to be succes ssful for development of the Report, although some op R f improvem pportunities for ment were ob bserved at th he site level. Our findings On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above: Stattement of independe i nce, imparrtiality and competence  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information within the Bure eau Veritas isi an indepe endent professsional serviices compan ny that speciializes in Qu uality, scope of our verification is not materially correct. Hea alth, Safety, Social and d Environme ental manag gement with over 180 years historry in  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information is not a provviding indepe endent assurrance service es, and an an nnual 2016 revenue r of 4..5 Billion Eurros. fair representation of the actual environmental and health and safety data for No m member of th he assurance e team has a business re elationship with w 3M, its Directors or calendar year 2016. Man nagers beyon d assurance of sustainability data and nd that of verrification and d reporting. We W  It is our opinion that 3M has established appropriate systems for the collection, have e conducted this verificattion independ w believe the dently and we ere to have been b no confflict aggregation and analysis of quantitative data, including energy use, direct and of in nterest. Bure h implemen eau Veritas has nted a Code of Ethics ac cross the bussiness to indirect GHG emissions, water consumption, waste quantities and disposition, injury main ntain high ethhical standarrds among staff in their day-to-day d buusiness activvities. and illness rate, lost day rate, severity rate and number of environmental violations. The assurance team t has exxtensive expe onducting as erience in co ssurance ove er environme ental, A summary of data within the scope of assurance for 2016 is attached. social, ethical an nd health an nd safety infoormation, sysstems and processes, p haas over 20 years y commbined experrience in thiss field and an n excellent uunderstanding g of Bureau Veritas stan ndard meth hodology forr the Assuran nce of Sustaiinability Reports. Adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles Based on the work undertaken during this assurance process, we are of the opinion that 3M adheres to the Accountability Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as Attestation: discussed below. Inclusivity Based on discussions with 3M, their processes appear to be inclusive of stakeholders. For example, 3M commissioned a third party provider to update their materiality assessment in Johnn A. Rohde Le ead Verifier Trevor A. A Donaghu, Te echnical Revie ewer 2016. In addition, 3M is active in community engagement that includes community Senior Project Manager Technicaal Director investment (3Mgives), youth development (TWIST, STEP, TECH), and humanitarian projects. Susttainability and Climate Channge Services Climate Change C Servicces 3M is working to increase the representation of women and other under-represented groups in industry through STEM activities and internal management development. Materiality 3M commissioned a materiality assessment as described in their 2015 Sustainability Report. Bureau Ve eritas North h America, Inc. The 2015 Sustainability Report explained the materiality assessment that considered the Denver, Co olorado importance of issues to both internal and external stakeholders. 3M began the process of updating the materiality assessment during 2016. The initial work for the update has included April 5, 2017 reviewing governance, scarce resources, greenhouse gas emissions, and health and safety. Responsiveness Some examples of how 3M responds to stakeholders regarding sustainability issues are through conference calls regarding the Sustainability Report, participation in investor calls, completion of requests from customers, and responding to comments received through 3M.com. In response to shareholder interest, 3M presented their sustainability report and goals during the 2016 annual meeting. 3M has modified the reporting format to a new layout to improve the reader’s experience. Key Observations for 2016  3M’s commitment to continuous improvement in environmental performance was evident from the continued development of and involvement in life cycle assessment benchmarking, and resource reduction analysis for new 3M products with respect to water and greenhouse gas emissions.  The commitment to decrease potential greenhouse gas emissions is shown through the continued improvements to air emission controls that specifically have decreased emissions of high global warming potential compounds. Summary Summary of Summary Assured of Assured of Information Information Summary Assuredof Information Assured Information Summary of Summary Assured Information of Assured Information Reporting ReportingYear 20162016 Reporting Reporting Year Year 2016 Year 2016 Summary Summary Summary of Reporting of Assured Information Summary Assured of Year ofAssured Information Assured Summary 2016 Reporting of Information Information Year 2016 Information Assured 3M Company 3M Company 3M Company3M Company ReportingReporting Reporting Year Reporting 3M Company Year 20163M 2016Year2016 Year Reporting Company 2016Year 2016 3M Company 3M Company 3M3MCompany Company 3M Company Supplier Responsibility Supplier Responsibility Supplier Supplier Metric SupplierMetric Responsibility Responsibility Metric Metric Metric Metric Units Responsibility Units Metric Metric Metric Units UnitsRY‐2016 RY‐2016 Metric RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Units RY‐2016 Water ‐Water Water Metric‐ Metric Water ‐ MetricWater ‐ Metric ‐ Metric Units Units Units RY‐2016 Units RY‐2016 Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 RY‐2 Metric Metric MetricMetric Metric RY‐2016Metric RY‐2016 RY‐2016 RY‐2016 EnergyEnergy ‐ Metric ‐ Metric Energy ‐ Metric Energy ‐ Metric Units Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 UnitsMetric RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Metric Metric Metric RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Energy ‐ Metric Energy ‐ Metric Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 timeFull‐time Total Equivalent Global Equivalent Total Global Full‐time Full‐time Equivalent Equivalent Total Global Full‐time Equivalent Total Global Full‐time Equivalent Cubic Cubic Million Million Million Million Cubic Cubic Million Cubic Total NumberTotal NumberTotal Number Total Number Total Energy Total Energy Use Total(Absolute) Use (Absolute) Energy Total Energy Use (Absolute) Use (Absolute) MMBTUs MMBTUs 29,000,000 MMBTUs MMBTUs 29,000,000 29,000,000 29,000,000 Total Number Total Number Total Energy Use (Absolute) Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs MMBTUs 29,000,000 29,000,000 t) (Headcount) (Headcount) 91,60091,600 91,600 91,600 (Headcount) Total Total Number Number ofTotal (Headcount) of Suppliers Number Number Suppliers Total NumberTotal Suppliers Suppliers of of Total Total Number Number of Suppliers Total Total Number Number 91,600 88,200 Total Number 88,200 91,600 88,200 88,200 88,200 Total Use Water Total Water Use (Absolute) Total Total (Absolute) Water Water Use Use (Absolute) (Absolute) Total Water Use (Absolute) MetersMeters Meters Meters 45.9 45.9 Meters45.9 45.9 45.9 lloyees Employees Totalat atEmployees Total Year‐End Global GlobalatEmployees Year‐End Year‐End at Year‐End Total Global Employees TotalatGlobal Year‐End Employees at Year‐End Total NumberTotal NumberTotal Number Total Number Total Energy Total Energy Use Total(Absolute) Use (Absolute) Energy Total Energy Use (Absolute) Use (Absolute) MWh MWh MWh 8,490,000 MWh 8,490,000 8,490,000 8,490,000 Total Number Total Number Total Energy Use (Absolute) Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh MWh 8,490,000 8,490,000 t) (Headcount) (Headcount) 92,50092,500 92,500 92,500 (Headcount) (Headcount) 92,500 92,500 Sites located Sites located inlocated Sites in Water Sites Water located Stress/Scarce Stress/Scarce in Water inSites Water Areas; Areas; Stress/Scarce Stress/Scarce water located water in Water water Areas; Areas; water Areas; water Stress/Scarce er rt‐TimePart‐Time Total Number Employees Employees Total Number Part‐Time Part‐Time Total Number Total EmployeesNumber Employees 2,400Total 2,400 Total Number Number 2,400 2,400 TotalOil Total Fuel #1,Oil Fuel #2,#1, #6#2, Total #6 OilTotal Fuel Fuel #1, #2, #6Oil #1, #2, #6MMBTUs MMBTUs 1,200,000 MMBTUs MMBTUs 1,200,000 Total 1,200,000 1,200,000 Number Part‐Time Employees Total Number Part‐TimeCumulative Employees TotalCumulative Number Number Cumulative Number Cumulative since 2,400 Total Number since Number since since Number Cumulative 2,400since Totalsources Fuel Oilsignificantly sources #1, significantly sources #2,Total sources affected #6 by Oil Fuel affected significantly #1, byaffected withdrawal significantly affected sources #2, #6ofbywater withdrawal ofaffected water withdrawal by withdrawal significantly MMBTUsof water water ofby withdrawal 1,200,000 MMBTUs of water 1,200,000 Total Number Total Number ofTotal of Number Supplier Number Supplier Total Reviews Reviews of Supplier of Total Supplier Number Reviews 2008 Reviews 2008 Reviews of Supplier 2008 2008 5,12020085,120 5,120 5,120 5,120 withconservation with water water conservation with withwater water planning planning conservation efforts conservation with waterefforts planning planning efforts Total efforts conservation Number Totalefforts Number planning Total 25Number Total Number 25 Total25Number 25 25 er l‐Time Total Full‐Time Employees Number Total Employees Number Full‐Time Full‐Time Employees Total Total Employees NumberTotal Number Number Total 90,100 Number 90,100 90,100 90,100 Total Total Jet Jet FuelTotal Jet FuelTotal Jet Fuel Fuel MMBTUs MMBTUs 159,000 159,000 MMBTUs MMBTUs Total Number Full‐Time 159,000 159,000 TotalEmployees Number Full‐Time Employees Total Number Total Number 90,100 90,100 Total Jet Fuel Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs MMBTUs 159,000 159,000 male ofPercentage Female Employees Employees ofPercentage to Total Female toEmployees Total of FemaletoEmployees Total to Total Percentage of Female Percentage Employees of Female to TotalEmployees to Total % % % 34.8 %34.8 34.8 34.8 Total PropaneTotal PropaneTotal Propane Total Propane MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 190,000 190,000 MMBTUs 190,000 190,000 % % 34.8 34.8 Total Propane Total Propane MMBTUs MMBTUs 190,000 190,000 Employees Employees Employees Employees ofPercentage male Female Employees Employees ofPercentage Female in inEmployees of FemaleinEmployees in Percentage of Female Percentage Employees of Female in Employees in % % % 27.8 %27.8 27.8 27.8 Total Gasoline Total Gasoline and Gasoline and Total Diesel Diesel Total Diesel and Diesel andGasoline MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 155,000 155,000 MMBTUs 155,000 155,000 % % 27.8 27.8 Total Gasoline and Total DieselGasoline and Diesel MMBTUs MMBTUs 155,000 155,000 nt Positions Management Management sitions Positions Positions Management Positions Management Positions Total Coal Total Coal Total Coal Total Coal MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 0 0 MMBTUs 0 0 Total Coal Total Coal MMBTUs MMBTUs 0 0 Air Emissions AirAir ‐ Metric Air Emissions Metric ‐ Metric Emissions ‐Emissions ‐ Metric Air EmissionsUnits Units ‐ Metric Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Air Emissions Air Emissions AirAir ‐ Greenhouse Gas ‐Emissions Emissions Greenhouse ‐Scope Gas ‐ Greenhouse Greenhouse Air 3Scope Emissions Gas Scope ‐3Gas Scope Greenhouse3 3 Gas Scope Units 3Units RY‐2016 Units Units RY‐2016 Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 RY‐2 Total Natural Total Natural Gas NaturalTotal Gas Total Gas Natural Gas MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 15,400,000 MMBTUs 15,400,000 15,400,000 15,400,000 Total Natural Gas Total Natural Gas MMBTUs MMBTUs 15,400,000 15,400,000 ntal Management Environmental anagement Environmental System System Management ‐ ‐ Management System ‐ System ‐ Absolute Scope Absolute Absolute Environmental 1Scope Absolute Emissions (Direct) Scope Scope 1 Emissions Management Environmental Emissions 1(Direct) Emissions 1Absolute System Metric (Direct) ‐Scope Management Tons CO2e (Direct) Metric 1 Emissions System Tons Metric CO2e Metric ‐(Direct) Tons Tons CO2e 4,140,000 CO2e Metric 4,140,000 Tons CO2e 4,140,000 4,140,000 4,140,000 Category 1 ‐ Purchased 1 Category Category Category Goods 1 ‐1Purchased ‐ Purchased ‐ and Purchased Goods Services Categoryand Goods Goods andand 1Services ‐ Purchased Metric Services andCO2e Tons GoodsMetric Services TonsMetric CO2e Metric Services Tons Tons CO2e CO2eMetric 6,610,000 6,610,000 CO2e6,610,0 Tons 6,61 Total Electricity Total Electricity Consumption Total Consumption Total Electricity Electricity Consumption Consumption MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 10,700,000 10,700,000 MMBTUs 10,700,000 10,700,000 Total Electricity Consumption Total Electricity Consumption MMBTUs MMBTUs 10,700,000 10,700,000 Metric Metric Units Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Metric Metric Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 er of Significant Total Significant SpillsTotal Number Spills of Number of Significant Significant Spills Spills Total Number of Significant Total NumberSpills of Significant Spills Total NumberTotal Number Total Number 0 Number 0 0 Total 0 Total Steam Total Steam Consumption Total Steam Consumption Total Steam Consumption Consumption MMBTUs MMBTUs 1,180,000 1,180,000 MMBTUs MMBTUs 1,180,000 1,180,000 Total Number Total Number 0 0 Total Steam Consumption Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs MMBTUs 1,180,000 1,180,000 rted10K (Spills 10K inreporting) reporting) reported (Spills reported in 10K in 10K reporting) reporting) AbsoluteAbsolute (Spills 2Scope Scope Absolute reported 2 Location‐based Location‐based Absolute in 10K Scope Scope reporting) (Spills reportedEmissions Emissions 2 Location‐based Location‐based 2Absolute Scope in 10K Emissions 2Emissions Location‐based reporting) Emissions Metric Metric Tons Tons CO2e CO2e Metric Metric Tons CO2e Tons Metric1,840,000 CO2e 1,840,000 Tons CO2e 1,840,000 1,840,000 1,840,000 CategoryCategory 2 ‐ Capital‐ Capital 2 Category Goods2 ‐Goods Category ‐ Capital 2Capital Category Goods Goods 2 ‐ Capital GoodsMetric Metric Tons Tons CO2e CO2e Metric MetricTons Tons CO2e CO2e538,000 Metric 538,000 Tons 53 CO2e 538,0 Significant cant Fines of Number Fines (Fine Number Significant penalty or (Fine orof (Fine orFines Significant penalty Fines penalty(Fine or penalty (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) Number of Significant Fines of Number (Indirect) (Fine Significant or penalty Fines (Fine or penalty Total NumberTotal Number Total Number 0 Number 0 0 Total 0 Total Number Total Number 0 0 >$10,000) >$10,000) >$10,000) >$10,000) tary Total alue Value of Significant Total Significant of Monetary Monetary Fines Value Fines of Million Value Significant Million of Significant Fines $USD Fines $USD Million 0 Million $USD 0 $USD 0 0 TotalAbsolute Absolute 2Scope Scope Absolute Absolute Market‐based Monetary 2 Market‐based Scope Total Value of Scope MonetaryEmissions 2 Market‐based Market‐based 2Absolute Significant Emissions Scope Value Fines ofMetric Emissions Emissions 2 Market‐based Million Significant $USD Metric Tons Fines Tons CO2e Emissions CO2e Metric Metric Million Tons Tons 0CO2e $USD CO2e Metric1,780,000 1,780,000 01,780,000 1,780,000 Tons CO2e 1,780,000 CategoryCategory ‐ Fuel 3and Category 3 ‐ FuelCategory Energy and Energy Related ‐ Fuel 3 ‐3Fuel and Related and Activities Category Energy Energy3 ‐Activities FuelRelated Related Metric Activities andActivities Energy Metric Tons Related Tons CO2e CO2e Metric Metric Tons Activities Tons CO2e CO2e 607,000 Metric 607,000 Tons 60 CO2e 607,0 (Indirect)(Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) er of Non‐Monetary Total Non‐Monetary NumberTotal SanctionsSanctions Number of Non‐Monetary Total Total Number NumberTotal of Non‐Monetary Sanctions Sanctions 0 Number 0 0 Total Number 0 Total NumberSanctions Total Number of Non‐Monetary of Non‐Monetary Total Number Sanctions Total Number 0 0 WasteWaste ‐ Metric ‐ Metric Waste ‐ Metric Waste ‐ Metric Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Waste ‐ Metric Waste ‐ Metric Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Disposed: WasteWaste Disposed: Treatment Disposed: Landfill, Landfill, Waste Treatment Wasteand Incineration Landfill, Disposed: andTreatment Incineration Landfill,and Treatment Incineration and Incineration Waste Disposed: Landfill,Waste Treatment Disposed: Landfill, and Incineration Treatment and Incineration ability ntal Environmental Liability AccruedAccrued Environmental at Liability YearatEndYear Liability Accrued Million End Million at$USD Year Accrued End at $USD 0 Million Year $USD Million End 0 $USD 0 0 MetricMetric Tons Tons Metric 160,000 Tons Metric 160,000 160,000 Environmental Tons AbsoluteAbsolute Liability 160,000 1Scope and Absolute Scope Absolute Environmental 1 and Scope Accrued 2Scope Scope Market‐ Scope 1at 2and 1Absolute and Year Liability Market‐ Scope Scope 2Accrued End Scope and at 2Million 1Market‐ Market‐ $USD Year2End Scope Market‐ 0 Million $USD 0 CategoryCategory ‐ Upstream 4 Category 4 ‐ Upstream Category ‐Transportation Upstream 4 ‐4Upstream Transportation Category and and Transportation Transportation 4 ‐ Upstream and Metric Tons and Metric and Transportation 160,000 Tons 160,000 (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) Metric Metric Tons Tons CO2e CO2e Metric Metric Tons Tons CO2e Metric5,920,000 CO2e 5,920,000 Tons CO2e 5,920,000 5,920,000 5,920,000 (Absolute) (Absolute) Metric Metric Tons Tons CO2e CO2e Metric Metric Tons Tons CO2e CO2e 699,000 Metric 699,000 Tons 69 CO2e 699,0 based Accounting based Accounting based based (Indirect) Accounting (Indirect) Accounting based (Indirect) (Indirect) Accounting (Indirect) Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution Total Hazardous Waste Total Hazardous Total (Absolute) Hazardous Waste Waste (Absolute) Total (Absolute) Hazardous WasteMetric Metric (Absolute) 43,90043,900 Tons Tons Metric Tons Metric 43,900 Tons 43,900 Total Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste (Absolute) Metric Tons Total(Absolute) 43,900Tons Metric 43,900 Total Nonhazardous Total Waste Total Nonhazardous Nonhazardous (Absolute) Waste Total Waste (Absolute) Nonhazardous (Absolute) Metric Waste Tons Tons Metric 177,000 (Absolute) Metric Tons Metric 177,000 177,000 Tons 177,000 Total NonhazardousTotal Waste (Absolute) Waste (Absolute) Nonhazardous Metric Tons Metric 177,000 Tons 177,000 Total3Scope Total Scope Total 3 Emissions Total Emissions (Upstream) Scope Scope 3(Upstream) Emissions 3 Emissions Total Scope (Upstream) 3Metric (Upstream) Metric Tons Tons(Upstream) CO2e Emissions CO2e Metric Metric Tons Tons CO2e Metric 9,130,000 9,130,000 CO2e Tons CO2e 9,130,000 9,130,000 9,130,000 CategoryCategory 5 ‐ Waste ‐ Generated Waste5 Generated 5 Category Category ‐ in Waste ‐5Waste in Operations Operations Generated Generated Category in Operations 5 ‐ Waste Metric Metric in Operations Generated Tons Tons CO2e CO2e Metric Metric in Operations Tons Tons CO2e CO2e 248,000 Metric 248,000 Tons 24 CO2e 248,0 by Disposal by Disposal WasteWaste Type, WasteType, by Disposal WasteType, Incineration Incineration by Disposal Incineration Type, Incineration Metric Metric Tons Tons Metric 44,40044,400 Tons Metric 44,400 Tons 44,400 Waste by Disposal Type, WasteIncineration by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric Tons Metric 44,400Tons 44,400 ySafety Metric HealthMetricand Safety HealthMetric and Safety Units Metric Units Units RY‐2016 Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Health and Safety MetricHealth and Safety Metric Units Units RY‐2016 RY‐2016 Per 100 Per3M100 3M Employees Employees Per 100 3M Employees Per 100 3M Employees Per 100 3M Employees Per 100 3M Employees Global Incident Time Rate Incident Global Rate Lost Time Incident RateIncident Rate Lost Time 0.304 0.304 0.304 0.304 by Disposal by Disposal WasteWaste WasteType, Type, Landfilled WasteType, by Disposal Landfilled by Disposal Type, Landfilled Landfilled Metric Metric Tons Tons Metric Tons Metric Tons Lost Time Incident Global Global Rate Lost Time Incident Rate 0.304 0.304 Waste by Disposal Type, WasteLandfilled by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric Tons Metric Tons (200,000 work hours) (200,000 work(200,000 hours) work hours) work hours) (200,000 116,000 Total116,000 116,000 Total Volatile Volatile 116,000 Organic Total Total Organic Volatile Compound Volatile Compound Organic Emissions Organic Total Emissions Compound Compound Volatile (200,000 Organic Emissions Emissionswork hours) Compound (200,000 work hours) Emissions 116,000 116,000 Per 100 Per3M100 3M Employees Employees Per 100 3M Employees Per 100 3M Employees Metric Tons3MTons Metric Per 100 Metric Metric Employees Tons Per Tons 100 3MMetric Tons4,630 4,630 4,630 Employees 4,630 4,630 CategoryCategory 6 Category ‐ Business 6 ‐ Business Category Travel ‐ Business 6 ‐6Business Travel Category Travel Travel Metric Metric 6 ‐ Business Travel Tons Tons CO2e CO2e Metric Metric Tons Tons CO2e CO2eMetric Tons61,800 61,800 CO2e 61,8 6 (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) rdable GlobalIncident e Incident RateGlobal Recordable Recordable RateIncident RateIncident Rate 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Waste‐to‐Energy Waste‐to‐Energy Waste‐to‐Energy Waste‐to‐Energy Tons Tons Metric Tons Metric MetricMetric Tons Recordable Incident Global Global Recordable Rate Incident Rate 1.2 1.2 Waste‐to‐Energy Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons Metric Tons (200,000(200,000 work hours) hours) work work(200,000 (200,000 hours) work hours) 61,00061,000 61,000 61,000 (200,000 work hours) (200,000 work hours) 61,000 61,000 Total NumberTotal Number Total Number 1 Number 1 1 Total 1 OnsiteOnsite RecycleRecycle Onsite & Reuse& ReuseRecycleOnsite Recycle & Reuse & Reuse MetricMetric Tons Tons Metric Tons Metric 56,500 Tons 56,50056,500 56,500 Total Number 1 Total Number 1 CategoryCategory Onsite ‐ Employee 7Recycle 7&‐ Employee Category Category 7 ‐7Employee Commuting Onsite Reuse ‐Commuting Employee RecycleCategory Commuting 7 ‐ EmployeeMetric &Commuting Reuse Metric Tons Commuting Metric TonsTons CO2e CO2e Metric Metric Tons 56,500 Metric CO2e CO2e Tons 364,000 Metric Tons 364,000 Tons 56,500 36 CO2e 364,0 edWorkFatalities alities ‐ 3M ‐ Related 3M Employees Work Related Employees Fatalities ‐ 3M Fatalities Employees‐ 3M Employees Work Related Fatalities Work‐ Related 3M Employees Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total Number Total NumberTotal Number 0 Number 0 0 Total 0 ReuseReuseOffsite ReuseOffsite Reuse OffsiteOffsite MetricMetric Tons Metric 29,300 29,30029,300 Tons Tons Metric Tons 29,300 Total Number Total Number 0 0 Offsite Reuse Offsite Reuse Metric Tons Metric 29,300Tons 29,300 edWorkFatalities alities ‐ 3M ‐ Related 3M Contractors Work Related Contractors Fatalities ‐ 3M Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Contractors Work Related Fatalities Work‐ Related 3M Contractors Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors CategoryCategory 13Category ‐ Downstream 13 ‐ Downstream Category 13 13Leased Leased ‐ Downstream Assets 13 ‐ Downstream Category Assets ‐Leased Leased Downstream Metric MetricLeased Assets Tons CO2e Assets Tons CO2e Metric Metric Assets Tons Tons CO2e Metric<1,000 CO2e <1,000 <1, Tons CO2e < Total NumberTotal Number Total Number 1 Total 1 Number 1 1 Recycle OffsiteOffsite RecycleOffsite Recycle Offsite Recycle Tons Tons Metric MetricMetric 136,000 136,000 Tons Tons Metric 136,000 136,000 Total Number 1 Total Number 1 Offsite Recycle Offsite Recycle Metric Tons Tons 136,000 Metric 136,000 alities edWork Total‐ Number ‐ Related Fatalities Total Work Related Fatalities Number ‐ Total Fatalities Number ‐ Total Number Work Related Fatalities Work‐ Related Total Number Fatalities ‐ Total Number Other Other Other Other Other CustomerCustomer GHG GHG Avoidance Customer Customer Avoidance through GHG GHG through Avoidance 3M Avoidance Customer 3M GHGthrough through 3M3M through 3M Avoidance Million Million Metric Metric Tons Tons Million CO2e Million CO2e Metric Metric TonsTons CO2e Million Metric 13 CO2e 13 Tons CO2e 1313 13 ProductProduct Use Use using usingSales 2015 Product Product 2015 UseUse Sales Volume using using 2015 ProductVolume 2015 Sales Sales Use Volume Volume using 2015 Sales Volume About Report | Metric Tables 3M 2016 Baseline Reporting — Environmental Footprint Baseline Reporting Metric Metric Units RY-2002 RY-2005 RY-2010 RY-2015 RY-2016 Change % Absolute Scope 1 Emissions Metric Tons CO2e 16,800,000 10,100,000 4,280,000 3,770,000 4,140,000 (Direct) Absolute Scope 2 Location-based Metric Tons CO2e 1,540,000 1,700,000 1,940,000 1,860,000 1,840,000 Emissions (Indirect) Total Greenhouse Gas Metric Tons CO2e per Emissions (Indexed to Net Sales, 1,120 559 233 186 199 Net Sales (MM$USD) Location‑based) Metric Tables 2012-2016 US EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG accounting. 2002 inventory recalculated according to US EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% increase in absolute emissions over original reported value). Total Volatile Organic Compound Metric Tons 6,800 6,070 4,800 4,630 –31.9 Emissions (Absolute) Total Volatile Organic Compounds Metric Tons per Net 0.321 0.228 0.158 0.154 –52.0 Emissions (Indexed to Net Sales) Sales (MM $USD) Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 27,900,000 26,800,000 28,400,000 29,000,000 3.94 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,170,000 7,860,000 8,320,000 8,490,000 3.92 Total Energy (Indexed to MMBTUs per Net 1,320 1,010 937 956 –27.6 Net Sales) Sales (MM $USD) Waste Disposed: Landfill, Treatment and Incineration Metric Tons 145,000 136,000 156,000 160,000 10.3 (Absolute) Waste Disposed: Landfill, Metric Tons per Net Treatment and Incineration 6.83 5.09 5.16 5.33 –22.0 Sales (MM $USD) (Indexed to Net Sales) Starting in 2016, Waste Disposed does not include Waste-to-Energy. Total Hazardous and Total Nonhazardous Waste includes Waste-to-Energy. Total Hazardous Waste (Absolute) Metric Tons 47,700 42,300 44,500 43,900 –7.97 Total Nonhazardous Waste Metric Tons 132,000 134,000 170,000 177,000 34.1 (Absolute) Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 49.0 43.0 42.5 45.9 –6.33 Million Cubic Meters Total Water Use (Indexed to per Net Sales 0.00231 0.00161 0.00141 0.00152 –34.2 Net Sales) (MM $USD) 212 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 213 About Report | Metric Tables 3M 2016 Baseline Reporting — Health and Safety 3M 2016 Goals and Results — Financial Performance Baseline 2015-2016 2012-2016 Reporting Annual Five Year Metric Metric Units RY-2002 RY-2006 RY-2010 RY-2015 RY-2016 Metric Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Change Change Change % % % Per 100 3M Global Lost Time Incident Rate Employees (200,000 0.594 0.364 0.321 0.304 –48.8 Net Sales Million $USD 29,900 30,900 31,800 30,300 30,100 –0.660 0.669 work hours) Per 100 3M Operating Income Million $USD 6,480 6,670 7,140 6,950 7,220 3.88 11.4 Global Recordable Incident Rate Employees (200,000 1.85 1.56 1.22 1.20 –35.0 work hours) Net Income Million $USD 4,440 4,660 4,960 4,830 5,050 4.55 13.7 Attributable to 3M Per Share-Basic Actual $USD 6.40 6.83 7.63 7.72 8.35 8.16 30.5 Per Share-Diluted Actual $USD 6.32 6.72 7.49 7.58 8.16 7.65 29.1 Total Debt to Total Capital % 25 25 34 48 53 10 110 (total capital = debt plus equity) 3M 2016 Goals and Results — Social Performance, Employees Capital Expenditures Million $USD 1,480 1,670 1,490 1,460 1,420 –2.74 –4.05 2015-2016 2012-2016 Annual Five Year Metric Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Change Change Research, % % Development and Million $USD 1,630 1,720 1,770 1,760 1,740 –1.14 6.75 Related Expenses Global Full-time Total Number 86,600 89,600 90,700 90,400 91,600 1.33 5.77 Employee Equivalent Employees Compensation Million $USD 8,350 8,730 8,840 8,790 8,470 –3.64 1.44 and Benefits Global Employee Total Number 86,600 89,600 90,700 90,400 92,500 2.32 6.81 Payments to (Headcount) Million $USD 1,800 1,900 2,390 2,700 2,870 6.30 59.4 Providers of Capital Total Number Provision for Total Number 2,430 2,580 2,560 2,520 2,400 –4.76 –1.23 Million $USD 1,840 1,840 2,030 1,980 2,000 1.01 8.70 Part-Time Employees Income Taxes Total Number Total Number 84,100 87,000 88,200 87,900 90,100 2.50 7.13 Full-Time Employees Percentage of Female Employees to % 33.7 33.7 33.9 33.9 34.8 2.65 3.26 Total Employees Percentage of 3M 2016 Goals and Results — Community Engagement Female Employees % 24.6 25.3 26.1 26.9 27.8 3.35 13.0 in Management 2015-2016 2012-2016 Positions Annual Five Year Metric Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Change Change % % Total Global Giving Million $USD 60.3 61.6 81.3 72.8 67.3 –7.55 11.6 Total Cash Donations Million $USD 27.9 30.3 30.3 34.1 34.8 2.05 24.7 Total In-Kind Million $USD 32.3 31.3 51.0 38.4 32.5 –15.4 –0.619 Donations 214 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 215 About Report | Metric Tables 2015-2016 2012-2016 3M 2016 Goals and Results — Environmental Performance Air Emissions Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Annual Five Year — Metric Change Change % % Environmental Management Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Emissions disclosed System — Metric in previous years (2011-2014) were Scope 3, Category 4 miscategorized as 0 0 0 0 0 (Upstream Category 9; data Total Number of Metric Tons CO2e 1,510,000 1,230,000 995,000 780,000 699,000 Total Number Transportation and does not include Significant Spills Significant spill: spills included in the organization's financial statement Distribution) emissions from transportation of Number of 0 2 1 0 0 raw materials from Total Number Significant Fines Significant fine: fine or penalty over $10,000 suppliers Calculated from Total Monetary Value Million $USD 0 0.0630 0.113 0 0 Scope 3, Category 5 3M primary data of Significant Fines (Waste Generated in Metric Tons CO2e Insufficient data 254,000 248,000 on waste by facility Operations) size or number of Total Number of employees Non-Monetary Total Number 0 2 1 0 0 Sanctions Calculated from Scope 3, Category 6 Metric Tons CO2e 58,600 56,900 61,100 55,800 61,800 3M primary data on (Business Travel) Environmental business travel Liability Accrued at Million $USD 0 0 0 0 0 Year End From Climate Earth, Scope 3, Category 7 using an input/output (Employee Metric Tons CO2e 352,000 353,000 358,000 356,000 364,000 model, based on 3M Commuting) 2015-2016 2012-2016 spend Air Emissions Annual Five Year Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 These emission are — Metric Change Change % % Scope 3, Category 8 included in Scope 1 (Upstream, Leased Metric Tons CO2e Included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reporting and Scope 2, because Assets) they are all under 3M Absolute Scope 1 operational control Metric Tons CO2e 4,370,000 5,590,000 4,390,000 3,770,000 4,140,000 9.81 –5.26 Emissions (Direct) Scope 3, Category 9 Absolute Scope (Downstream Metric Tons CO2e 2 Location-based Metric Tons CO2e 2,250,000 2,360,000 2,240,000 1,860,000 1,840,000 –1.08 –18.2 Transportation and Emissions (Indirect) Distribution) Total Scope 1 and Scope 3, Category 10 2 GHG Emissions: (Processing of Sold Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons CO2e 5,920,000 Not evaluated; most of 3M's products are intermediates with many potential end uses. According Market-based Products) to the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Calculation and Guidance, a company that produces intermediate Accounting products with many potential downstream applications, each with a potentially different GHG emission profile, cannot reasonably estimate the downstream emissions associated with the Scope 3, Category 11 Total Scope 3 various end uses of the intermediate products. Metric Tons CO2e 10,700,000 10,600,000 11,100,000 9,500,000 9,130,000 (Use of Sold Metric Tons CO2e Emissions (Upstream) Products) Total Scope 3 Emissions Metric Tons CO2e All downstream categories either do not apply or are de minimis Scope 3, Category 12 (Downstream) (End of Life Metric Tons CO2e Treatment of Sold Products) Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated. Due to change in boundaries, Scope 3 Upstream emissions should not be compared on a year-on-year basis. Prior to 2015, 3M Scope 3, Category 13 Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions reported facilities From Climate Earth, (Downstream Leased Metric Tons CO2e <1,000 <1,000 Scope 3, Category 1 reporting leased to 3rd parties using an input/output Assets) (Purchased Goods Metric Tons CO2e 8,160,000 8,360,000 8,330,000 6,860,000 6,610,000 under Scope 1 and 2 model, based on 3M and Services) spend Scope 3, Category 14 No franchises under Metric Tons CO2e 0 0 0 0 0 (Franchises) 3M financial control From Climate Earth, Scope 3, Category 2 using an input/output Scope 3, Category 15 No investments under Metric Tons CO2e 584,000 647,000 812,000 577,000 538,000 Metric Tons CO2e 0 0 0 0 0 (Capital Goods) model, based on 3M (Investments) 3M financial control spend The data reported is in accordance to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Scope 3, Category 3 Emissions from Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. (Fuel and Energy transmission and Partially included in An input/output model calculation methodology based on spend by commodity was used in collaboration with Climate Earth for Categories 1 Related Activities; distribution losses Metric Tons CO2e Scope 1 and Scope 2 551,000 621,000 607,000 and 2, and based on employee headcount by country for Category 7. A third-party audit of the input/output model data has been conducted to Not Including (Category 3c) are emissions reporting confirm compliance with the WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3). Scope 1 or Scope 2 included in Scope 2 Emissions) inventory Estimated Scope 3 data uncertainty is ±50% (WRI/WBCSD, GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2011). 216 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 217 About Report | Metric Tables 2015-2016 2012-2016 2015-2016 2012-2016 Air Emissions Annual Five Year Annual Five Year Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Waste — Metric Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 — Metric Change Change Change Change % % % % Total Greenhouse Waste Disposed: Gas Emissions Metric Tons CO2e Landfill, Treatment Metric Tons 137,000 146,000 153,000 156,000 160,000 2.56 16.8 (Indexed to Net per Net Sales 221 258 208 186 199 6.88 10.0 and Incineration Sales, Location(MM$USD) (Absolute) based) Waste Disposed: Landfill, Treatment Total Volatile Organic Metric Tons per Net and Incineration 4.58 4.74 4.80 5.16 5.33 3.29 16.4 Compound Emissions Metric Tons 5,980 5,430 5,550 4,800 4,630 –3.54 –22.6 Sales (MM $USD) (Indexed to (Absolute) Net Sales) Total Volatile Waste by Disposal Organic Compounds Metric Tons per Net Metric Tons 43,000 43,200 44,200 45,300 44,400 –1.99 3.26 0.200 0.176 0.174 0.158 0.154 –2.53 –23.0 Type, Incineration Emissions (Indexed Sales (MM $USD) to Net Sales) Waste by Disposal Metric Tons 93,900 103,000 109,000 111,000 116,000 4.50 23.5 Type, Landfilled 2015-2016 2012-2016 Annual Five Year % Data Coverage Energy — Metric Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Change Change Total Waste % 96 97 98 97 98 1.0 2.1 % % (Absolute) Total Energy Use Starting in 2016, Waste Disposed and Waste by Disposal Type does not include Waste-to-Energy. Total Hazardous and Total Nonhazardous MMBTUs 27,700,000 28,700,000 29,100,000 28,400,000 29,000,000 2.11 4.69 (Absolute) Waste below includes Waste-to-Energy. Total Energy Use Total Hazardous MWh 8,110,000 8,400,000 8,520,000 8,320,000 8,490,000 Metric Tons 39,700 39,400 41,100 44,500 43,900 –1.35 10.6 (Absolute) Waste (Absolute) Total Energy Total Nonhazardous MMBTUs per Net Metric Tons 140,000 153,000 164,000 170,000 177,000 4.12 26.4 (Indexed to Net 931 930 912 937 956 2.03 2.69 Waste (Absolute) Sales (MM $USD) Sales) Total Waste Diverted Total Fuel Oil #1, Metric Tons 255,000 274,000 287,000 296,000 283,000 –4.39 11.0 MMBTUs 1,490,000 1,490,000 1,630,000 1,330,000 1,200,000 –9.77 -19.5 (Absolute) #2, #6 Waste-to-Energy Metric Tons 42,400 45,700 51,900 58,100 61,000 4.99 43.9 Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 163,000 143,000 161,000 153,000 159,000 3.92 –2.45 Onsite Recycle & Metric Tons 51,100 66,000 69,500 65,500 56,500 –13.7 10.6 Total Propane MMBTUs 132,000 138,000 192,000 170,000 190,000 11.8 43.9 Reuse Total Gasoline and Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 33,800 32,000 31,900 32,900 29,300 –10.9 –13.3 MMBTUs 226,000 190,000 209,000 270,000 155,000 –42.6 –31.4 Diesel Total Coal MMBTUs 0 0 0 0 0 Offsite Recycle Metric Tons 128,000 131,000 134,000 139,000 136,000 –2.16 6.25 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 14,800,000 15,500,000 15,900,000 14,700,000 15,400,000 4.76 4.05 Total Electricity MMBTUs 9,980,000 10,300,000 11,100,000 10,600,000 10,700,000 0.943 7.21 Consumption Total Steam MMBTUs 840,000 902,000 1,010,000 1,130,000 1,180,000 4.42 40.5 Consumption Total Heating MMBTUs 17,700,000 18,300,000 19,100,000 17,700,000 18,300,000 3.39 3.39 Consumption Total Heating MWh 5,180,000 5,370,000 5,590,000 5,190,000 5,360,000 Consumption 218 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 219 About Report | Metric Tables 2015-2016 2012-2016 Water — Metric Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Annual Five Year 3M 2016 Goals and Results — Supplier Responsibility Change Change % % 2015-2016 2012-2016 Annual Five Year Total Water Use Million Cubic Metric Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 43.4 43.3 42.5 42.5 45.9 8.00 5.76 Change Change (Absolute) Meters % % Total Water Million Cubic Total Number of Use (Indexed to Meters per Net 0.00145 0.00140 0.00134 0.00141 0.00152 7.80 4.83 Total Number 106,000 107,000 95,800 98,500 88,200 –10.5 –16.8 Suppliers Net Sales) Sales (MM $USD) Total Number of Cumulative Number Sites located in 2,510 3,210 3,880 4,570 5,120 12.0 104 Supplier Reviews (since 2008) water stress/scarce areas; water sources significantly affected Total Number 24 22 27 25 25 0.0 4.2 by withdrawal of water with water conservation planning efforts 3M uses the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool to screen site locations for water stress/scarce levels and prioritizes conservation plan development based on internal criteria. 3M 2016 Goals and Results — Health and Safety 2015-2016 2012-2016 Annual Five Year Metric Metric Units RY-2012 RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 Change Change % % Per 100 3M Global Lost Time Employees 0.402 0.339 0.355 0.321 0.304 –5.30 –24.4 Incident Rate (200,000 work hours) Per 100 3M Global Recordable Employees 1.42 1.41 1.45 1.22 1.20 –1.64 –15.5 Incident Rate (200,000 work hours) Work Related Fatalities — Total Number 1 1 0 0 1 3M Employees Work Related Fatalities — Total Number 1 1 0 0 0 3M Contractors Work Related Fatalities — Total Number 2 2 0 0 1 Total Number 220 | 3M 2017 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 221 #improvinglives Crossword Across 2. 2025 5. Partners across responsible 1 sourcing 8. It’s “What survives when what 2 has been learned has been 3 ­forgotten.”—B. F. Skinner 9. From which products are made 10. Key theme; embedded firmly at 4 5 the core of 3M 6 7 12. All of us 8 14. Collaborate with to solve challenges 15. Aeschylus said it is wedded to obedience 9 17. Types of energy 18. At the heart of everything we do 10 11 Down 12 1. 71% of the Earth’s surface 13 3. The result of “We” 14 4. Creativity spurs it 19 6. Celebrate it 15 7. Our Ambition 1 1. Thousands of commencement 16 speeches on this topic 17 13. Advance, enhance, improve 14. From the Latin “zone” 16. Mahatma Gandhi called it 18 real wealth 19. 3M _______ . Applied to Life.™ Find the answers at go.3m.com/sustainability-puzzle-answers
