GROW ON US UNGC COP 2016 www.7cs.com ABOUT THIS T he report covers our Group companies 7Cs Eurasia FZE, 7Cs Diamond & Jewellery Trading LLC, 7Cs Gold and Jewellery REPORT LLC, 7Cs Fashion House LLC, Soft Touch Jewellers LLC, Global Green Bridge Contracting LLC, Jehan Green Walls Fze, Aspen Real Estate LLC, Jehan Investment Ltd, 55Fifty7 Jewellery LLC and Fishtree Advertising LLC. Our commitment to sustainability is organisation-wide and inclusive of our operations beyond the UAE. All information in the report is complete and within the reporting period starting from 1st January to 31st December 2016. WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK We strive to offer excellent service to all our stakeholders. Your feedback will help us improve our reporting and ensure transparency. This report is available on the websites of United Nations Global Compact and the 7Cs Group. W e are proud to publish our first annual sustainability report, summarising our results for the year 2016. The 7Cs Group is a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), committed In case of queries, please contact: Anjali Lukose to the 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, CSR and Corporate Communication Executive environment and anti-corruption. This report provides information Email: anjali.lukose@7cs.com. Tel: +971 4 255 2797 Extn: 285 regarding our performance against the UNGC principles and therefore serves as our annual Communication On Progress (COP). 2 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 3 ABOUT US 7 Cs Group is a diversified conglomerate with a strong presence in the field of wholesale Our Vision We aim to facilitate growth for and retail jewellery, sustainable all stakeholders and continue construction, real estate investment building mutually beneficial, lasting and hospitality. The Group had its partnerships. Our ambitious and Middle East foundation in 1999, by visionary leadership ensures that we Dr Harshad Mehta, being renamed keep exploring new frontiers and the 7Cs Group in 2014. achieving new victories, thereby facilitating growth for the entire 7Cs family and its partners. Headquartered in Dubai, UAE 7Cs Group has: Our Mission GROW ON US 1701 Employees We are dedicated to offering a reliable platform that nurtures innovation, T he philosophy of the 7Cs Group is the empowering message Grow on us. ‘Grow’ represents the future, ‘on’ represents the stability of a strong platform established on firm morals. ‘Us’ encompasses ‘u’ for uniqueness 23 Nationalities rewards excellence and creates value for stakeholders, as well as the community. because dynamic creativity is at the core of any initiative and every organization should have a culture of innovation, while ‘s’ in ‘us’ represents ‘service’, stressing upon the need to focus on customer satisfaction and delight by offering world-class service. The 7Cs Group provides a platform for growth for various businesses, thereby impacting society and its people through economic development. The diversity of the Group emanates from its belief in nurturing ideas, ambitions and letting each individual discover their potential and develop their own identity. 4 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 5 OUR BUSINESS JEWELLERY DIAMOND JEWELLERY HUEB With exciting and creative design capabilities and cutting-edge technology, we create Hueb is an international fine jewellery brand with hand-crafted jewellery designs inspired innovative diamond jewellery collections to serve leading retail clients in North America, by its Brazilian heritage. With a flagship store at Madison Avenue in New York, Hueb is Europe and Middle East. Our US-based 7Cs Fashion House has a product offering that present in more than 50 luxury department stores across North America, the GCC and spans bridal to high-fashion segments and is currently serving leading majors and midBrazil. majors in the US market. We supply unique designs of gold mountings to diamond jewellery retailers and local distributors in the GCC region. Our innovative designs, superior quality, coupled with JEWEL CORNER shorter lead times have made us one of the leading suppliers of gold mounts in the region. Jewel Corner specializes in trendy and exquisite diamond and gold jewellery at affordable prices and has been operating from shop-in-shops and kiosks at all the leading malls across the GCC region for the past 20 years. GOLD JEWELLERY 7Cs Gold Jewellery supplies superior-quality bangles, bracelets, necklaces and pendant sets, earrings, chains and rings in 21 and 22-karat gold. With a wide range of exquisite 55FIFTY7 gold jewellery designs on offer, 7Cs Gold is the ultimate one-stop-shop solution for gold jewellery wholesalers and retailers across the globe. At 55FIFTY7, an award-winning design team and qualified jewellery professionals transform client concepts and design ideas into signature jewellery using state-of-theart technology. The 55Fifty7 Incubator houses eight workstations equipped with all the latest facilities and an extensive library of reference materials for qualified and budding ROUGH DIAMONDS jewellery designers. 7Cs Eurasia undertakes responsible sourcing of diamonds from mines as well as fine assortment for processing and manufacturing. With over 30 years of experience in managing diamond-cutting factories across the globe, the team has a keen understanding of manufacturing requirements and perfects the assortments accordingly. The company also offers tailor-made products. 8 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 9 CONSTRUCTION REAL ESTATE GLOBAL GREEN BRIDGE CONTRACTING LLC ASPEN REAL ESTATE Global Green Bridge Contracting is an EPC construction company in the MENA region Aspen Real Estate, the realty advisory and management wing of 7Cs, has a team of highlyand specializes in green solutions. It has a G+ unlimited building contracting license and trained professionals with vast experience in the Dubai real estate market. With an astute ISO 90012008, ISO 14001-2004 & OHSAS 18001-2007 certifications. The company understanding of the customers’ investment needs, Aspen focuses on delivering end-towon the 4-star Taqdeer award for excellence in employee-welfare practices, bench end solutions. marked against global practices on labour policies, facilities and infrastructure, health and safety, recruitment and wages, justice and transparency, from the UAE government. JEHAN INVESTMENTS Jehan investments is a property fund and investment vehicle that currently invests in the JEHAN GREEN WALLS Dubai market, targeting attractive yields with low risk. The portfolio primarily targets ready properties for rental yields, with a small proportion being invested in off-plan Jehan Green Walls, part of the Global Green Bridge Group of Companies, offers properties, which are expected to deliver higher capital appreciation. sustainable construction solutions like 3D panels. The 3D panels, comprising of a fireretardant. Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) core with a layer of galvanized steel wire mesh on each side, provides a self-supporting structural system and infill walls for efficient insulation. PREMIER MARBLE TECHNICAL SERVICES Premier Marble Technical Services, our marble and natural stone business, offers quality marble and natural stone. We work with contractors and interior designers in the UAE and India to install the stone, processed at our factory Rak Italiano Inc. 10 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 11 HOSPITALITY BALARAM PALACE HOTEL Balaram Palace Hotel is a boutique heritage hotel constructed in the neo-classical and baroque architectural style in Gujarat, India. With 34 rooms, 13 acres of terraced gardens and situated amidst a reserve forest, the hotel offers a diverse culinary experience and ahost of leisure and cultural activities for its guests. ADVERTISING AND BRAND BUILDING FISHTREE Fishtree is a communications agency providing strategic, tactical and creative marketing solutions to businesses in the Middle East. The company specializes in B2B and B2C communications, providing traditional advertising, public relations and digital marketing solutions. 12 7Cs Group / COP 2016 OUR LEADERS DR. HARSHAD MEHTA MR. RIHEN MEHTA FOUNDER CHAIRMAN D r. Harshad Mehta has over 50 years of global experience in the diamond industry and is recognised as a veteran in the trade. Former Chairman of the Dubai Diamond Exchange, Dr. Mehta has also been consistently voted among the top 20 most powerful M r. Rihen Mehta is a young visionary with a penchant for creating businesses that deliver consistent results. His 12 years of experience has already won him the title of ‘Young Achievers in Business in the UAE’ (Xponent Media) in recognition of his Indians in the Gulf region. Beyond business, he is well known for his humanitarian efforts, contribution to the growth of business in the country. He brings to the table innovative which shine through in his association with social initiatives ranging from education, ideas and strategies to keep pace with a growing and challenging market. He is currently primary healthcare to medical research and resolving other developmental challenges. Dr on the Board of Directors of the prestigious Dubai Gold & Jewellery Group and the Dubai Mehta embodies the 7Cs Group’s seven core values that inspire and guide all aspects of Diamond Exchange. Mr Mehta was featured in Forbes Middle East’s list of Top Indian the group’s functioning. Leaders 2017: The Next Generation and was also selected as honouree in the category Young Entrepreneur of the Year (Age 40 and below) for the JNA Awards 2017. 14 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 15 CHAIRMAN’S DECLARATION To our stakeholders: CSR I am pleased to confirm that the 7Cs Group, through its group companies, supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to DIRECTOR’S continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles with the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. We also commit to share STATEMENT this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. 7Cs Group is also a member of the Responsible Jewellery Council. RJC is a not-for-profit, standards setting and certification organization for the jewellery industry. Through this association and F or us, at 7Cs Group, CSR does not mean philanthropy or charity alone, it is and will be how the company conducts its business responsibly. We are focused on human rights and labour rights and on ensuring that business ethics are followed throughout all external audit report, our company demonstrates credible commitment to ethical business verticals of the company. Being members of UNGC and RJC has helped us implement practices for gold and diamond metal sourcing and distribution by addressing human better business practices in the company as well as ensure that these practices are being rights, labour rights, environmental impact, mining practices and product disclosure in the followed by our clients and suppliers. jewellery supply chain. Our volunteer activities are conducted under the name ‘Mandar’. We discuss and Our efforts have been recognised by the UAE government. Our EPC construction decide on causes that we can support during the monthly CSR committee meetings and company Global Green Bridge Contracting won the 4-star Taqdeer award for excellence participate in activities with the help of volunteers across the Group companies. In 2016, in employee-welfare practices, bench marked against global practices on labour policies, our philanthropic activities focused on education, a cause very close to our hearts. With facilities and infrastructure, health and safety, recruitment and wages, justice and contributions from the Family as well as employees, we were able to help hundreds of transparency, from the UAE government. children in a single year. The COP report has helped us consolidate all our efforts and donations and measure the outcome. Sincerely yours, We acknowledge we have a long way to go and we are working towards it by setting and pursuing our ambitious targets for 2017. RIHEN MEHTA DEEPIKA MEHTA Chairman Director, CSR & Corporate Communication CSR COMMITTEE UNGC PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS A t 7Cs Group, we remain committed to responsible business practices, considering the impact of our operations on the local communities, the people we work with and the surrounding environment. Reflecting on Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and these commitments, we have constituted a corporate social responsibility Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. (CSR) committee, which allows us to better focus on the implementation of our CSR and sustainability plans and engage employees through various programmes and initiatives. The CSR committee, comprising LABOUR members of different Group companies, meets on a monthly basis and decides on projects to support and helps with implementation across the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Group. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and We have an operations board, comprising heads of human Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment resources, finance, executive directors. All business decisions and occupation. are taken by the board and not just the Chairman and executive directors alone. Moreover, all business plans are made by a committee of employees. This ensures that employees suggestions ENVIRONMENT are taken into consideration for business strategies. We also update all employees of achievements, business plan and Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to progress, twice a year. environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 18 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 19 HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Policy/ Procedure Implementation Measurement of outcome Policy/ Procedure Implementation • Ethics policy • Suggestion box installed in offices • 3 sessions of ‘Tell Me’ held • HSE policy • Employee annual appraisal is done online • Non-discrimination policy • ‘Tell Me’ grievance redressal and grievances addressed. • Environment policy • Capitalised on IT development to reduce paper dependence in • Sexual harassment policy sessions conducted • 0 complaints of sexual • finance and accounting departments. • misconduct or discrimination • Began compiling air travel data to record carbon footprint for • in 2016. business travel Measurement of outcome 2017 targets 2017 targets • 60% reduction in usage of paper by finance • Begin recycling programme in departments all Group companies • Draft and implement business partner policy. • Online and email approvals were encouraged • Take business partners’ undertaking on code of conduct and responsible business practices policy. throughout the group. In 2016, 90% of all approvals • Conduct anonymous employee satisfaction surveys. were done online, saving paper. Air Travel 2016 LABOUR Total carbon footprint (metric tons of CO2e) Policy/ Procedure Implementation • Code of conduct • We follow the UAE and US labour laws, wherever applicable. Note: This does not include data of air travel of our US-based company 7Cs Fashion House. • Recruitment policy • We have contracts with our employees to avoid forced labour. • • HSE policy Ethics policy • We collect official documentation to ensure that no employee is below 18 years of age. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Internal and external training programmes are conducted. Policy/ Procedure Implementation • All employees are covered under medical insurance. • Rewards and Recognition programme. Measurement of outcome • Anti-Corruption policy • All company expenditures and transactions are recorded with proper documentation. • 0 complaints of violation of UAE labour law in 2016. • Our books and accounts are annually subjected to external • Employees belonging to 23 nationalities work with us. audits, which are used as one of the methods of identifying • No incidence of child labour or forced labour recorded in 2016. any payments, which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. 2017 targets Measurement of outcome 2017 targets • Appoint health, safety and environment officers • 7Cs Group’s senior • Maintain gift register • Conduct first aid training and fire drills management has not been • Conduct training on anti-money laundering laws • Maintain a safety register convicted of any criminal or • Appoint AML officer and committee for investigation financial offence in 2016. 20 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 21 HOW WE EMPLOYEES 2015 2016 CONDUCT TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 1, 625 1701 OUR BUSINESS TOTAL NUMBER OF MALE EMPLOYEES 1, 538 1602 TOTAL NUMBER OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES 87 99 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 819 582 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO TOOK 1 4 MATERNITY LEAVES ATTRITION RATE 19.9% 18.5% No. of Internal/ EMPLOYEE S no Name of the Training Trainer External Employees Attended TRAINING 1 Myers–Briggs Type Indicator personality development MK Moorthi Internal 24 RECORD 2 Business Metrics operational efficency MK Moorthi Internal 21 3 Team Building MK Moorthi Internal 21 4 Executive Forum operational efficiency MK Moorthi Internal 26 5 Social Media SEO SEO external team External 1 6 Accounting Excel Accounts team Internal 1 7 Personnel Management System usage Malaika Anne Internal 45 8 HR portal usage Malaika Anne Internal 40 9 Hueb Retail Staff training Malaika Anne internal 20 10 Hueb Overseas staff training Malaika Anne Internal 10 11 B2B Communications training MK Moorthi Internal 19 12 Diamond Grading SGL Institute External 5 The 7Cs Group stands for 7 core values 13 ERP accounting software training Leonar Gimeno Internal 1 i.e. Credibility, Creativity, Customer Service, Collaboration, 14 FIDIC certification training Sunil Manjarekar External 20 15 Ms Excel training Accounts team Internal 15 Consistency, Commitment, and Corporate Social Responsibility. 16 Foreman training Green Bridge HR team Internal 32 17 Team-building training Halasya Sunderam External 60 18 Myers–Briggs Type Indicator personality development MK Moorthi Internal 20 19 IGNITE induction programme Ruben John Internal 18 OUR CODE OF ETHICS 20 SWAGATHAM induction programme Ruben John Internal 51 21 Team-building training MK Moorthi Internal 50 Code of conduct is laid down for the 7Cs staff in order to maintain a healthy 22 Foreman training Green Bridge HR team Internal 20 work culture in the organisation. The human resources manual is designed to 23 Sales Profile mapping Reg Athwal External 15 24 Jewel Corner sales training Reg Athwal External 20 acquaint employees with the working conditions, benefits and policies affecting 25 Group DNA session personality development Bob Kohli External 40 employment. Our charter, comprising the code of conduct, is signed by every 26 Group DNA session personality development Bob Kohli External 25 employee. 27 DNA session for Global Green Bridge personality development Reg Athwal External 13 28 Key Result Areas efficiency training Bob Kohli External 7 29 Innovation workshop Bob Kohli External 16 30 Project 3rd Eye operational efficiency training Reg Athwal External 28 Total 684 22 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 23 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 7Cs ANNUAL PARTY NEW HOLIDAY POLICY In addition to all the holidays as per the declaration of The annual party was organised in November for all employees and their families. The evening ‘holidays for private sector’ by the UAE government, our began with some fun games on the beach, after which everyone gathered for the entertainment employees are eligible to take one more day in a year for programme. The evening ended with some great dancing and a good wholesome dinner. their respective religious or cultural occasion. REWARDS AND RECOGNITION To recognise and appreciate our people’s dedication, commitment and results, we have a rewards PAINTING BONANZA and recognition programme, where employees are nominated for their achievements and win cash rewards each month. Employee of the month 36 awarded Employee of the quarter 3 awarded A painting activity is conducted for children of CrEDO 7Cs employees annually. The theme for 2016 With an aim to give labourers a break from their daily work routine, our construction company was ‘My reason to love UAE’. The lovely Global Green Bridge organises a construction employees’ day out annually. CrEDO event gives the paintings were then featured in the 7Cs 2017 blue-collar employees an opportunity to showcase their talent. Fun games, entertainment and dinner calendar. are organised for them. This event commemorates their hard work and importance to the company, bringing out the best in the labourers. 24 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 25 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS MANDAR 04 QUALITY EDUCATION ACTIVITIES 03 In 2016, 7Cs Group, through its companies GOOD HEALTH AND focused on the WELL-BEING following Sustainable Development Goals, laid down by the United Nations Development 15 LIFE ON LAND Programme. 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES WE DESIGN A BETTER FUTURE The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. These 17 Goals build on the successes of the Millennium Development Goals, while including new areas such as climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, peace and justice, among other priorities. The goals are interconnected – often the key to success on one will involve tackling issues more commonly associated with another. 26 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 27 QUALITY EDUCATION EKAL VIDYALYA FOUNDATION, INDIA ACHARYA S N KOTHARI PRIMARY SCHOOL, PALANPUR, INDIA The Ekal Vidyalaya Foundation of India is a registered non-profit service organization dedicated to Impact: 7Cs Group donation led to the purchase of RO water plant for the children of Acharya S education and village development in rural India. Ekal’s philosophy is to take a holistic approach to N Kothari School in Palanpur, benefitting 600 students. social and economic development. The Ekal organization is the largest, grass roots, non-government education movement in India. Currently, it is operating in over 52,000 villages and educating over 1.4 million children in rural SARVODAY ASHRAM, SANALI, INDIA India. The organization runs 24 different social and educational institutes in Gujarat. Impact: The 7Cs Group has been supporting the project for several years, and in 2016, we Impact: 7Cs Group sponsored the prize money for 350 students, who participated in the school sponsored 23 schools across India. annual day function. ROTARY CLUB, PALANPUR CITY, INDIA: BANASKANTHA DISTRICT KELAVANI MANDAL, INDIA Rotary Clubs strengthen the capacity of communities to support basic education and literacy, This is a registered public charitable trust in Palanpur and focuses on developing and educating reduce gender disparity in education, and increase adult literacy through various projects. They children from Banaskantha, a backward and remote area district of Gujarat. support education for all children and literacy for children and adults. Impact: 7Cs Group sponsored the prize money for16 students, who participated in the college Impact: 7Cs Group partnered with Rotary Club in Palanpur in its project to improve conditions of cricket match. schools in the region. Through our contribution, Rotary Club was able to renovate three schools Sahakar Primary school, Rajvi school, Rajaram school of Palanpur City. SCHOOL FEE SPONSORSHIP, INDIA Impact: 7Cs Group sponsored the annual school fees of two employees’ children. YUVAK SANGH, DEESA, INDIA This organization focuses on improving education standards and spreading value-based education. In all schools undertaken by them, they aim to provide basic facilities such as neat, clean and welllit classrooms, computer lab, science lab, activity room, teacher’s room, office room, and, most importantly, highly skilled and talented teachers. Impact: 7Cs Group donated towards their school development fund for maintenance expenses. BHOGILALA KAKALBHAI SHAH CHARITABLE TRUST, INDIA Impact: Skill development programme including tailoring, beauty parlour training were conducted for 100 women. Five sewing machines also purchased from donations from the 7Cs Group. 28 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 29 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING DUBAI BLOOD DONATION CENTRE, UAE 7Cs Group conducts an annual blood donation camp in association with Dubai Blood Donation MANIBEN VRAJLAL MEHTA HOSPITAL, INDIA Centre, Latifa Hospital, Dubai. Impact: 7Cs Group donation was used to sponsor eye operations of 500 impoverished patients. Impact: 7Cs Group donated 50 units of blood in 2016. ROTARY CLUB OF BOMBAY, INDIA DUBAI SPORTS COUNCIL 24-HOUR WALKATHON, UAE Rotary Clubs strengthen the capacity of communities to support basic education and literacy, DXB 24-Hour Walkathon was a first-of-its-kind 24-hour walking challenge in Dubai, organized by reduce gender disparity in education, and increase adult literacy and provide affordable medical the Dubai Sports Council, in 2016. The 90km walkathon around the streets of Dubai was designed care through various projects. to raise awareness of health and fitness and well-being in line with World Diabetes Day on Impact: 7Cs Group donation was used for paediatric heart surgery and purchase of eye scanner November 14. machine. Impact: A group of 20 employees from 7Cs Group companies participated in the walkathon. ARPAN THALASSEMIA SOCIETY, INDIA Arpan has adopted 200 Thalassemia-majorinflicted children. The organisation conducts blood transfusion, provides folic acid tablet and conducts serum ferritin test, ECG test and complete blood testing and endocrine tests for the children. Impact: 7Cs Group donation benefitted 200 children. DEESA SPORTS CRICKET AND CHARITABLE ACADEMY, INDIA Organisation provides cricket training for underprivileged children. Impact: 7Cs Group sponsored the installation of turf wicket in the cricket ground, where about 50 children play cricket. YOUNG COMRADE CRICKET CLUB, INDIA Organisation provides cricket training for those participating in the Young Comrade Shield cricket tournament. Impact: 7Cs Group sponsored the prize money for cricket tournament players. 30 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 31 REDUCED INEQUALITIES LIFE ON LAND BRITISH ASIAN TRUST MEH RISHI DAYANAN GAUSHALA, HISAR, INDIA Organisation tackles widespread poverty and hardship in South Asia. Its four areas of focus are: Organisation operates bovine care centres. Anti-trafficking education and training to create safer environment for vulnerable women and Impact: 7Cs Group sponsored purchase of fodder for 1,100 cows. children Education improve access to quality formal and non-formal education and training Livelihoods improve financial security through skills training Mental Health / Disability improve financial security through skills training SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Impact: 7Cs Group has contributed towards all these projects. SMART LIFE, UAE PROMOTING INDIAN CULTURE, UAE Smart IDOL is a project started by NGO SmartLife in UAE. It aims to find the finest talent amongst Impact: 7Cs Group contributed towards promotion of Indian folk dance during a Navratri function blue Collar individuals, whose salaries are less than 2,500 AED. The NGO trains and provides them in UAE. a platform to exhibit their hidden talent to public and media. Impact: Around 21 labourers from our construction camp sites auditioned for the Smart Idol event. One labourer was trained for three months and won the Smart Idol competition and has since performed at several functions across UAE with the Smart Idol band. PROVIDING COMFORT TO UNDERPRIVILEGED DURING WINTER, INDIA Impact: 7Cs Group donated around 200 blankets during winter for widows in Chitrasane village in Gujarat. 32 7Cs Group / COP 2016 www.7cs.com 33 PO Box 54303, Office 1003 1005 New Century City Tower Deira, Dubai (UAE), Tel: +971 4 255 2797 Fax: +971 4 255 2897
