EFG Hermes Communication on Progress 2016 Submitted to the United Nations Global Compact Contents Letter of Commitment ........................................................................................................................ 1 The United Nations Global Compact—Upholding the Ten Principles ................................................ 2 Human Rights Principles ................................................................................................................. 2 Labour Principles ............................................................................................................................. 3 Environment Principles ................................................................................................................... 4 Anti-Corruption Principles .............................................................................................................. 5 Measurement of Progress and Outcomes ...................................................................................... 6 Strategy ............................................................................................................................................... 7 Sustainability ....................................................................................................................................... 8 Focus on Engagement ......................................................................................................................... 9 Investing in Clean Energy .................................................................................................................. 10 Reaching the Unreachable with Tanmeyah ...................................................................................... 13 Transforming Lives in Al-Makhzan .................................................................................................... 14 Global Change Makers: Eradicating HCV .......................................................................................... 15 Cultural Evolution: Volunteering for Sustainability .......................................................................... 16 Investing in Tomorrow: Youth Initiatives .......................................................................................... 17 Going Green ...................................................................................................................................... 18 Building Tomorrow’s Leaders ........................................................................................................... 20 Integrity, Transparency and Accountability ...................................................................................... 22 Abbreviations AAST Arab Academy for Science Technology AUMs Assets Under Management BUE British University in Egypt CDA Community Development Association CoP Communication on Progress CP Cerebral Palsy CSC Corporate Sustainability Committee CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EGX Egyptian Stock Exchange EIU Economist Intelligence Unit ESG Environmental, Social and Governance FATCA Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act GCC Gulf Cooperation Council GCNE Global Compact Network Egypt HBV Hepatitis B Virus HCV Hepatitis C Virus IFC International Finance Corporation KPI Key Performance Indicator MENA Middle East and North Africa MIU Misr International University SAC Sustainability Advisory Committee SDGs Sustainable Development Goals SR Sustainability Report SSE Sustainable Stock Exchanges UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNPRI United Nations Principles of Responsible Investing LETTER OF COMMITMENT EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 1|Page THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT—UPHOLDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES EFG Hermes is proud to be an active participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and a founding member of the Global Compact Network Egypt (GCNE). Our support for the UNGC underscores the importance that we attach to corporate sustainability and our commitment to creating a transparent and responsible business environment. This Communication on Progress (CoP) report provides an overview of activities undertaken by EFG Hermes to uphold the Ten Principles of the UNGC on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The summary below presents the Ten Principles and the corresponding EFG Hermes policies and progress in each area and is followed by an in-depth report on our sustainability initiatives and activities. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES EFG Hermes’ goal is to uphold the UNGC principles on human rights by engaging with stakeholders and committing to policies that minimize risk on human rights issues and improve living standards in the communities where it operates. Principle 1: Policies/Actions Progress Businesses should EFG Hermes Continued commitment to our four core values of support and values integrity, leadership, value creation and respect the commitment. protection of Commitment to Creation of a stand-alone Corporate Social internationally sustainability Responsibility (CSR) Department responsible for proclaimed policy development, reporting and liaison on all human rights. sustainability issues in collaboration with the Corporate Sustainability Committee (CSC). Principle 2: Make Over 90% of employees have participated in mandatory sustainability training. sure that they are Release of the second annual sustainability report not complicit in (SR) covering 2015 and preparation of the third human rights annual SR to be issued in March 2017. abuses. Stakeholder Internal awareness campaign to promote the 17 engagement Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and highlight their alignment with EFG Hermes activities. Promotion of sustainability measures within the investment and finance industry through membership in the Sustainability Advisory Committee (SAC) of the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) and the GCNE. Employee Participation by employees in voluntary activities engagement promoting sustainability including community development initiatives, development of financial literacy tutorials and social media engagement. Microfinance Extending banking services and loan facilities to small and micro-business owners previously considered ‘unbankable’ through the EFG Hermes subsidiary Tanmeyah. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 2|Page Corporate The inauguration of the EGP 9 million Al-Makhzan citizenship integrated village development project which has provided clean water, sanitation, housing and education services to an impoverished rural community in Upper Egypt. Financial literacy sessions for over 940 students at five Egyptian universities. Sponsored field trips for over 20,000 public school students to the KidZania edutainment facility. Support for the MOVE Foundation for Children with Cerebral Palsy (CP). The EFG Hermes The EFG Hermes Employee Handbook clearly sets out Employee employee rights in terms of conditions of Handbook employment, performance management, leave entitlements, recruitment, and employment termination procedures. It is available to all employees on the company intranet. The EFG Hermes The EFG Hermes Code of Conduct defines a clear set Code of Conduct of standards for business conduct of employees and is available to all employees on the intranet. The EFG Hermes The EFG Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers Supplier Code of to uphold sustainability beliefs shared by EFG Conduct Hermes and all applicable laws regarding labour and human rights, health and safety, environmental protection and ethics practices whenever they make products or perform services for EFG Hermes. To date it has been signed by 56% of suppliers. LABOUR PRINCIPLES EFG Hermes upholds the UNGC principles on labour with a clearly defined set of policies and a commitment to investing in the professional development and well-being of its employees. Principle 3: Policies/Actions Progress Businesses should Career A total of 8,741 training hours in 2016. uphold freedom development The percentage of untrained employees dropped by of association and programmes 10.4% from 57.7% in 2015 to 46.6% in 2016. effective An intake of 102 interns for the Experiential Learning recognition of the Programme across EFG Hermes offices (up from 90 in right to collective 2015). bargaining. Policies to ensure Policies to prevent discrimination by nationality. workplace ‘Know Your Employee’ Policy. diversity and fair Principle 4: recruitment The elimination of practices all forms of forced Employee An on-line system to provide new hires with vital and compulsory engagement information ranging from minor details such as the labour. policies dress code, to more important matters such as regulatory requirements and policies. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 3|Page Principle 5: The EFG Hermes Connect application designed to The effective streamline processes such as requesting vacations abolition of child and HR letters, checking official holidays and pay labour. days and provides access to all internal announcements and other important information. Principle 6: The ‘Whistle-blowing’ Policy. elimination of Extension of the ‘Voice It’ programme, an online tool discrimination in for employees at all levels across the firm to respect of communicate new ideas and voice complaints employment and anonymously and discreetly. occupation. Installation of ‘Voice It’ grievance/suggestion boxes in our office in Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Roll-out of firm-wide online sustainability awareness training completed by 90.5 % of employees. Wellbeing, safety The ‘Fit-for-Life’ programme supervised by a certified and health fitness trainer and nutritionist. policies On-site gym facilities. Encouragement of employees to participate in team activities such as the internal football and table tennis tournaments in Egypt and the Bloomberg Square Mile Relay in Dubai. Organization of cultural activities such as book fairs. Medical and Life Grant policies for all employees. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES EFG Hermes is committed to upholding the UNGC principles on the environment by being at the forefront of regional investment firms in the area of renewable and clean energy and by minimizing the environmental risk surrounding our operation and supply chain. Principle 7: Policies/Actions Progress Businesses should Responsible The Vortex Renewable Energy platform, the largest support a investing renewable energy-focused investment manager in precautionary Europe with a target capacity of 1.5 to 2 GW of net approach to installed capacity within the coming years. environmental Launch of Egypt’s first alternative energy lease challenges. finance solution to provide agri-business with access to financing for renewable energy solutions. Principle 8: Environmental, Commissioning of a third-party consultant to assist in Undertake Social and developing and integration of an Environmental, initiatives to Governance Social and Governance (ESG) policy. Policy promote greater environmental Energy Launch of Felsekka, a carpooling initiative to conservation encourage our employees to reduce their carbon responsibility. footprint. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 4|Page Complete conversion of the UAE, Jordan, and Egypt’s Assiut and Nasr City offices to energy efficient LED Principle 9: lights. Encourage the Campaign to encourage employees to save energy. development and Green IT Migration to virtual servers to decrease power diffusion of consumption and replace legacy IT equipment. To environmentally date, virtualization in the Egypt and UAE offices has friendly reached the target of 75%, with 73% for Jordan and technologies. 33% for Saudi Arabia. Migration of the EFG Hermes e-mail gateway to a secure cloud-based server. Automation of internal reporting mechanism to decrease paper use. Adoption of power-saving technologies such as firewalls and switches. Safe disposal of all e-waste via a certified company. Resource Announcement of Egypt HQ, Jordan, Oman and Management Saudi Arabia offices as free of disposable plastic cups. Encouragement of clients to adopt e-statements to reduce paper use. Replacement of paper file presentations with epresentations via iPads in Board of Directors and Committee meetings. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES To uphold the UNGC principles on anti-corruption, EFG Hermes takes an energetic, proactive approach to corporate governance, compliance, auditing and risk management. Principle 10: Policies/Actions Progress Businesses should Policies on: All policies are available to employees on the work against Staff Dealing intranet. corruption in all Group 100% of the workforce have signed and Compliance acknowledged the Code of Conduct. its forms, Information Development of a new orientation package including Disclosure designed to give trainees and newly hired extortion and Disaster employees a comprehensive view of all policies bribery. Recovery and operations. ‘Chinese Wall’ Anti-Fraud and Corruption Whistleblowing Anti-Money Laundering Mandatory anti93% of the workforce took the anti-money money laundering and 92% the anti-fraud training in 2016. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 5|Page laundering and Rigorous due diligence processes. anti-fraud courses Internal audit, Adoption of continuous auditing as the Audit compliance and Department’s new methodology. risk management Completion of a full review of EFG Hermes Leasing to policies ensure that the newly launched leasing activities are included as part of the firm’s compliance coverage. Strong internal control and risk management culture to ensure the alignment of business to management’s strategic goals. Internal Audit is renewing its commitment to monitor, assess and, where possible, strengthen business and support functions’ sustainability efforts. The compliance team also completed a year-long process to become compliant with the US government’s Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), which came into effect in 2014. EFG Hermes is the first investment bank in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region to receive ISO22301 certification from the British Standards Institute for its commitment to business continuity management. Cybersecurity The IT Department continued the implementation of its cybersecurity plan, which was officially introduced to employees through a mandatory online course. MEASUREMENT OF PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES EFG strives to maintain its reputation as the leading Middle East and North Africa financial services corporation by adhering to a robust and stringent model of corporate governance, compliance and auditing. We have clearly defined management processes, structures, and policies that assure appropriate decision-making and accountability and reassure shareholders and clients that their investments are in safe hands in times of both bull and bear markets. A clear set of principles governs the conduct of all EFG Hermes employees, from the Board of Directors down to the most junior staff member. Our auditing and compliance procedures adhere to the rules and regulations of multiple authorities and regulators in Egypt, Jordan, Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and beyond. To meet these types of challenges we have developed a clear compliance strategy built on a strong governance culture that promotes integrity, transparency, and accountability. Our Audit, Compliance, Risk and Human Resources Departments continuously monitor and evaluate performance against key performance indicators (KPIs), benchmarks and policies and provide conduits for employees to register any complaints or problems and ensure the highest levels of accountability, transparency and integrity. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 6|Page STRATEGY EFG Hermes is the leading Middle East and North Africa financial services corporation. Since its founding in 1984, it has been transforming the regional financial landscape and establishing a competitive edge in every market and sector of operation. At EFG Hermes, we thrive on challenge and pride ourselves on continuously pushing the envelope and creating new opportunities for our clients. Our aim is not only to provide EFG HERMES them with best-in-class products and services but also to enable growth and economic progress and deliver sustainable AT A GLANCE* We operate in returns despite challenging operating environments. Our strategy focuses on two main pillars: geographic 6 countries expansion into frontier markets and product diversification. We serve over This strategy is underpinned by our social purpose: Leveraging our financial expertise and capitalizing on our human talent to 115,000 clients create sustainable value for our stakeholders and the communities we serve. We have more than We provide a wide spectrum of financial services including 880 employees investment banking, asset management, securities brokerage, research and private equity to the entire region. In Our group assets total over 2016, EFG Hermes announced the launch of a finance platform, EFG Hermes Finance, which will oversee activities in EGP 14 BN the non-banking finance field through EFG Hermes Leasing Investment bank assets under and Tanmeyah Microfinance. management (AUMs) total Four intrinsic values have governed our firm since its founding in 1984: Integrity, Leadership, Value Creation and USD 3 BN Commitment. It is our commitment to these values that has Net profit of set us apart from our competitors by informing all aspects of our strategy and nurturing a culture of mindfulness and EGP 168 MN inclusion. The Six Ps of our strategy: People, Positioning, Presence, Products, Profits, and Public Responsibility function as the key pillars supporting our operations and the benchmark of our performance. We understand that we are an integral part of the communities where we do business and that we have a responsibility towards these communities. The EFG Hermes Foundation continues to facilitate ground-breaking citizenship initiatives but we believe that this does not go far enough. Accordingly, we are preparing to become signatories of the United Nations Principals of Responsible Investing (UNPRI) as part of our strategy to embed sustainability and public responsibility in all aspects of our business. We realise that achieving sustainability in the field of financial *All figures for 9M2016 services is a multi-dimensional challenge but we believe that EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 7|Page it also offers a wealth of opportunity. As the leading Middle East and North Africa financial services corporation, we look forward to taking the lead in once again transforming the market and working towards a more equitable, sustainable society. SUSTAINABILITY This year was an exciting year for us with significant advances on sustainability throughout our operation. Our efforts have been recognised and honoured both on an international as well as on a local level and we continue to refine and develop our approach to sustainability as our understanding of the challenges deepens and matures. POLICY, GOVERNANCE AND REPORTING This year, we created a stand-alone Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Department responsible for policy development, reporting and liaison on all sustainability issues in collaboration with the Corporate Sustainability Committee (CSC) and the Green Team, a dynamic action group comprising representatives of different departments. In 2016, we also contracted a third-party consultant to assist us in developing an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) policy and integrating it into our business lines in preparation for becoming signatories of the UNPRI. We report annually on our sustainability performance and have been active participants in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2011. We are currently working on developing our sustainability reporting procedures in line with global guidelines. To date, we have issued two annual sustainability reports in tandem with our annual report and our third is due in March 2017 and covers the calendar year 2016 in addition to highlights of our progress over time. THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development—adopted by world leaders in September 2015 at an historic UN Summit— officially came into force on 1 January 2016. As part of its employee engagement activities, the CSR Department has been organizing an awareness campaign with material on each of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on the company intranet throughout the year. The department also seeks to highlight how EFG Hermes activities on sustainability align with different SDGs and illustrate how businesses can advance the 2030 Agenda through their core activities and partnerships. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 8|Page In December 2016, EFG Hermes Holding SAE was selected as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, a marketleading tool for investors that wish to align their portfolios with their values, or seek to invest in companies based on their management of ESG risks and demonstration of leading management practices. Recognition The FTSE4Good Emerging Indexes are designed to measure the performance of companies in emerging markets that meet the globally recognised ESG inclusion standards used by the FTSE4Good Index Series. In its 2016/2017 awards programme, UK’s CEO Insight Magazine named EFG Hermes as its ‘Social Sustainability Leader’ of the year for the concrete results that we have collectively achieved in the areas of: sustainability disclosure reporting, corporate philanthropy, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, community leadership, ethical principles and sustainable growth. EFG Hermes is also proud to be one of 30 Egyptian companies listed on the S&P/EGX ESG Index. This index was developed in conjunction with Standard & Poor’s and Crisil and designed to raise the profile of those companies that perform well in terms of environmental, social and corporate governance responsibility when compared to their market peers. FOCUS ON ENGAGEMENT Institutions such as EFG Hermes are uniquely positioned to help promote acceptance and implementation of sustainability measures within the investment industry. We take this responsibility seriously and engage with our peers and the wider community through several forums. EGX SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE The Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) was one of four pioneer exchanges that joined the United Nations' Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) initiative in 2009. The aim of the initiative, founded by the UN Secretary General is to increase exchange-listed companies' transparency and commitment to environmental, social and corporate governance issues and to promote issues related to the SDGs. EFG Hermes is a member of the EGX’s Sustainability Advisory Committee (SAC) and participates extensively in sustainability outreach initiatives. In March 2016, EGX joined 34 Stock Exchanges around the world in a ‘Ringing the bell ceremony for gender equality’, celebrating and promoting sustainability and gender equality—one of the 17 SDGs—with the support of international institutions such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and UN Women as well as local investors and institutions. GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK EGYPT The Global Compact Network Egypt (GCNE) was launched in February 2004 as the local contact point for the UNGC. In 2015, the GCNE became an independent entity in the form of a foundation, which aims to promote the Ten Principles of the UNGC and the SDGs in Egypt. EFG Hermes is proud to be a founding member of the GCNE and a participant in the UNGC since 2011. As members of the GCNE Steering Committee, we have been working with the GCNE and partner organizations on creating a responsible business climate in Egypt, whereby organizations move away from traditional business conduct toward sustainable development practices. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 9|Page INVESTING IN CLEAN ENERGY In 2015, nearly 200 countries signed up to the 17 SDGs of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Climate Change Agreement. The transition to clean, sustainable and renewable energy underpins many of these goals and requires a transformational approach to energy investing and financing. EFG Hermes, via its Private Equity and Finance arms, is at the forefront of regional and global efforts to invest in clean energy and to support a cleaner future. THE VORTEX RENEWABLE ENERGY PLATFORM Vortex is a European renewable energy platform managed by the private THE VORTEX equity arm of EFG Hermes. In two years, the private equity team has built Vortex from a newcomer in the renewable energy investment field into PORTFOLIO the largest renewable energy-focused investment managers in Europe. Vortex currently manages 822 MW in net capacity of solar PV and onshore AT A GLANCE wind assets, across the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Belgium and Gross capacity Portugal, well on its way to a target of 1.5 to 2 GW of net installed capacity within the coming years. 1,363 MW Gross generation With its latest transaction to acquire 100% of a 365 MW operational solar PV power portfolio in the United Kingdom, originally owned by TerraForm Power, Vortex has successfully deployed c. USD 1.4 billion in the European 2,834 GWh renewables market since 2014 after acquiring net installed wind Households supplied capacities of 457 MW through assets managed by EDP Renováveis SA across four Western European jurisdictions. The Solar PV transaction is 623,950 valued at an Enterprise Value of c. GBP 470 million and comprises 24 CO2 emission reductions operational assets, representing one of the largest portfolios of solar PV in the United Kingdom. 1,568, 000 TONS ‘The successful close of this landmark deal provides EFG Hermes’ private AUMs in the European equity division with considerable traction in Europe’s renewable energy renewable energy market space, a key pillar of EFG Hermes’ regional and global expansion strategy,’ said EFG Hermes CEO Karim Awad. ‘The transaction also demonstrates the USD 1.4 BN dedication and professionalism of our private equity team, who have done an excellent job in solidifying EFG Hermes’ infrastructure investment Percentage of total group footprint across several European jurisdictions,’ he added. AUMs in renewable energy Vortex has already outperformed investment targets in terms of Over 40% electricity generation and financial performance demonstrating the attractive financial returns possible on sustainable and responsible investment. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 10 | P a g e EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 11 | P a g e LEASE FINANCING FOR ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SOLUTIONS In December 2016, EFG Hermes Leasing launched Egypt’s first alternative energy lease finance solution with KarmSolar, THE PROBLEM Egypt’s largest private off-grid solar energy integrator. The Agricultural areas are often vendor partner programme is the first of its kind in Egypt, and disconnected from the aims to create a sustainable solar energy financing solution for national grid and forced to businesses while addressing the country’s growing demand for rely on costly fuel alternative energy solutions. The solution is particularly wellshipments to power their suited to the nation’s underserved agriculture sector, where it water pumps. can play a transformative role in growing Egypt’s base of arable land outside the Nile Delta region, easing pressure on Nile water EFG HERMES’ SOLUTION resources and eliminating the need for less environmentally friendly energy sources. Rooftop solar panels for businesses and The launch of Egypt’s first large corporations looking to add sustainable energy to their alternative energy lease power mix or to add new capacity without reliance on the finance solution. national grid are also included in the programme. THE VALUE ‘EFG Hermes Leasing believes that a critical part of its role is to provide solutions that are innovative and that cater to untapped  Solar power is ideally markets,’ explained Walid Hassouna, CEO, EFG Hermes Finance. suited to more remote, As demand for energy continues to grow across sectors, subsidy off-grid areas and for cuts and rising awareness of the environmental impact of fossil growers and businesses fuels are encouraging demand for clean, renewable energy. looking to reduce reliance on fossil fuels. The programme is the most aggressive financing scheme for  Potential for cultivation solar stations in the Egyptian market and aims to prove that solar of millions of acres of energy is an accessible and profitable alternative by minimizing arable land in Egypt barriers to entry for the agribusiness industry, across both outside the Nile Delta. individual farmers and corporations. This partnership will allow  Clean energy provides businesses across the country to not only meet their individual agribusinesses with the energy requirements through a reasonably priced custom opportunity to reduce financing plan, but also save costs while contributing to the their carbon footprint health and sustainability of their communities. and burnish their organic credentials, with organic crops the fastestgrowing segment in Egypt’s agriculture industry. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 12 | P a g e REACHING THE UNREACHABLE WITH TANMEYAH Egypt has a young and vibrant population and a highly-developed banking sector. Despite this, over 90% of Egyptians remain outside the scope of services of the traditional banking industry. EFG Hermes is changing this through its recent acquisition of Tanmeyah, a fastgrowing microfinance solution provider with over 114 nationwide branches. Tanmeyah was established in 2009 to address a major impediment to the country’s overall development: Smalland TANMEYAH micro-business owners are usually considered ‘unbankable’ by AT A GLANCE major financial institutions and are cut off from access to the funding necessary to grow their business, boost employment, Clients served since inception and improve living standards within their communities. A core component of Tanmeyah’s business model rests on the Over 470,000 ability to reach unreachable clients through branches Total loans disbursed strategically located close to potential customers throughout Egypt. These community-based ‘mini-banks’ operate in the heart Over EGP 3 BN of the community employing trained residents with direct ties to the target client pool. This allows Tanmeyah to form close ties Branches nationwide with each community, optimizing the collection cycle and minimizing credit risk. As a result, Tanmeyah has one of the 114 lowest rates of non-payment of loans in the industry. Training Tanmeyah’s strategy is rooted in a strong development ethos that aims to provide its clients a path out of poverty as well as 687 employees achieve an attractive return on investment. This guiding principle is at the core of its business and is reflected in its community 864 field officers outreach policies. In addition to providing financing for its Percentage of borrowers aged 21clients, Tanmeyah offers them guidance, training, and advice on 40 years how to achieve their goals. Non-paying clients, particularly women-headed households, who have defaulted for reasons 72% beyond their control are often referred to local NGOs who assume the capital debt while Tanmeyah writes off the interest. Percentage of borrowers in Upper Egypt A major factor in Tanmeyah’s success lies in the strategic deployment of technology and in the quality and professionalism 65% of its staff, from the management team to loan officers and Rate of non-payment branch managers. Careful recruitment and in-house training programmes reflect a dedication to hiring and retaining the most < 1% talented professionals in the field. The acquisition of Tanmeyah cements EFG Hermes’ strategic drive into the finance sector. It also underscores its commitment to sustainability and to the SDGs by serving underprivileged communities with limited access to finance and expanding lending to this vital segment of the Egyptian economy. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 13 | P a g e TRANSFORMING LIVES IN AL-MAKHZAN The EFG Hermes Foundation continued its pioneering integrated development work in 2016. After more than two years of hard work and dedication on the part of the Foundation, the Kuwaiti Initiative for the Support of the Egyptian People and staff volunteers, AlMakhzan Village Development Project was inaugurated in October 2016 in a brilliant example of the transformative effects of dynamic partnerships for development. The EGP 9 million project, which has been in the works since late 2014, has helped build homes for over 35 families in the AL-MAKHZAN village. Working together with the local community in the village of Al-Makhzan, the EFG Hermes Foundation delivered AT A GLANCE the second phase of newly built houses and succeeded in providing clean water and sanitation services to the entire Total funds disbursed village. The Foundation provided a new sanitation truck to the local community managed by Al-Makhzan Community EGP 9 MN Development Association (CDA). A new bakery has also been built with a capacity to produce 4,000 loaves per day to ensure Homes built a consistent and affordable supply of bread and create employment opportunities for residents. Both the bakery and 35 the sanitation truck projects are implemented and managed by A bakery with a capacity of the local CDA, with support from the Foundation, to provide employment opportunities for the local community and build 4,000 loaves/day the capacity of the CDA. A renovated health unit serving An integral part of the project focused on the improvement of over education in the community. The construction of a new school building has improved the student-to-classroom ratio. 20,000 residents Classrooms have been outfitted with new furniture and science laboratory equipment, and 1,500 school bags with all needed A new school serving stationery for students arrived in time for the start of the new school year. Additionally, a renovated health unit has been 1,500 students upgraded with new equipment, giving it the capacity to serve Sanitation services for over over 20,000 residents from Al-Makhzan and nearby villages. Hanaa Helmy, CEO of the EFG Hermes Foundation, commented 20,000 residents on the project’s completion, saying, ‘Since its inception, this results-oriented joint effort with the Kuwaiti Initiative has placed the people of Al-Makhzan at the forefront. We wanted to make a sustainable and positive impact on the residents of this village. To do that, we adopted a comprehensive approach to community development that does not focus on a single area, but rather aims to rehabilitate communities as a whole.’ The successful project is a testament to the Foundation’s unwavering commitment to sustainable development and the implementation of integrated solutions to the challenges facing communities in rural and underserviced areas in Egypt. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 14 | P a g e GLOBAL CHANGE MAKERS: ERADICATING HCV The EFG Hermes Foundation has been at the forefront in the battle to eradicate liver disease in Egypt since 2007. In January 2017, Hanaa Helmy, in her capacity as CEO of the EFG Hermes Foundation, was honoured by the Economist Intelligence Unit as one of 18 global change makers in the fight to eradicate the Hepatitis C virus (HCV). Liver disease is the second highest cause of mortality in Egypt after heart disease, with liver cancer one of the three most commonly diagnosed cancers in Egypt. It is estimated that 51.5% of cases can be THE PATH TO ZERO attributed to HCV infection and 21.3% to the Hepatitis B virus (HBV). The EFG Hermes Foundation, under the leadership of CEO Hanaa The Hepatitis C virus Helmy, has supported several projects instrumental in the fight against affects nearly 160 million viral hepatitis in Egypt. people worldwide. Up to In 2007, the Foundation initiated a campaign to raise awareness of the 700,000 of those infected, role of unsanitary medical practices in the spread of viral hepatitis. die from Hepatitis C every About 300 people get endoscopies at Kasr al-Aini Teaching Hospital in year. Cairo each day, and the hospital was using devices that were not The Path to Zero properly sterilised. The Foundation granted EGP 2 million in funding to foundational research purchase new machines to disinfect the endoscopes and provided a tools and reports, carried two-year supply disposable syringes and gloves to raise hygiene levels. out by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) and Realising that the next generation of physicians and medical providers sponsored by AbbVie, could be a powerful force for change, the Foundation has also funded strive to build focus and a campaign to provide awareness and HBV vaccinations to medical, accountability towards dental, pharmacy and nursing school students at 13 universities. The eliminating HCV. programme reached over 200,000 from 2008 to 2012. After pausing during the revolution, it resumed in 2012, thanks to the EFG Hermes The programme consists Foundation’s commitment to innovative and sustainable programmes, of three core components: at a time when many other development programmes were forced to foundational country-level shut down for lack of support. policy research; a series of roundtable meetings A large factor in the success of the campaign was the reliance on direct designed to generate fresh outreach via peer-to-peer counselling. The campaign trained student thinking to help eliminate volunteers in campaign organization and community outreach. The HCV in three thematic volunteers manned the information and vaccination booths set up onareas: Awareness Raising, campus and were responsible for raising the awareness of more than Innovations in Funding and 45,000 university students regarding viral hepatitis. An extension of Bridging the Know-do Gap the campaign carried out in youth centres around the country spread (or the gap between the message to an estimated additional 150,000 youth. theory and practice); and finally, the ‘HCV Change Since 2012, the Foundation has also provided EGP 2 million to support Makers’ recognition a screening programme at Mansoura University Children’s Hospital. All programme which shines a patients and their families are screened for HCV and infected children light on 18 persons or are provided with treatment. These efforts have helped cure 200 organisations that are children of HCV, allowing them to lead healthy lives. ‘You’re saving breaking new ground on someone from having liver cancer,’ says Ms. Helmy, ‘They can become this Path to Zero. productive members of society.’ EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 15 | P a g e CULTURAL EVOLUTION: VOLUNTEERING FOR SUSTAINABILITY In 2015, we launched the ‘Rethink’ initiative to encourage our employees to adopt sustainable habits at all levels of our operation. In 2016, they became a key driver in our sustainability efforts, initiating and participating in many voluntary activities designed to promote sustainability. Actively engaging our employees in sustainability initiatives is a key EMPLOYEE part of our sustainability strategy. Through our Green Team, employees not only participate in sustainability initiatives but also ENGAGEMENT extend these efforts to their homes and communities. Participants in our quarterly sustainability competitions have submitted AT A GLANCE solutions ranging from residential solar water heaters to a community development initiative in Assiut in Upper Egypt and a new private equity literacy tutorial. 216 volunteers It is in volunteering, however, that the spirit of sustainability has 842 hours really come to the fore among EFG Hermes employees. Our financial literacy initiative is a shining example. Employees such as those who 2,526 total developed the Private Equity Tutorial Video, are proud to dedicate their time to furthering the Firm’s social purpose and capitalizing on beneficiaries their expertise to enhance financial literacy within our community. The video uses simple infographics and basic terminology so that the educational content is easily understood by a range of audiences. Social media impact of #I_am_sustainable The set of financial literacy tutorials are not only available on our YouTube channel and Microsoft’s Masr Ta3mal portal but are also 57 social media posts presented to university students by passionate and dedicated EFG Hermes employees who believe in their duty to help incubate an 12,374 likes educational environment for newcomers looking to enter the industry. 265 shares Employees also dedicated considerable time and effort to support the EFG Hermes Foundation’s project to support the children of Al59,395 views (reach) Makhzan village. The back-to-school drive involved packing and distributing 1,500 school bags with supplies for the children of AlMakhzan’s renovated school and had a tremendously positive Funds donated to 57357 Cancer impact on ensuring the start of a promising new year for the Hospital students. We are also exceptionally proud of our employees for supporting Over EGP 210,000 initiatives such as toy drives, blood donation drives and the 57357 Children’s Cancer Hospital, and we look forward to even more engagement from our employees during upcoming initiatives. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 16 | P a g e INVESTING IN TOMORROW: YOUTH INITIATIVES Providing opportunities for upcoming generations is a mission we take seriously at EFG Hermes. Our youth empowerment programmes are among our most successful corporate citizenship initiatives and underscore our commitment to transforming the future. FINANCIAL AWARENESS AND LITERACY SESSIONS In 2016, EFG Hermes conducted financial literacy sessions in five YOUTH INITIATIVES universities reaching more than 940 students in Ain Shams University, Cairo University, Misr International University (MIU), AT A GLANCE the Arab Academy for Science Technology (AAST) and the British Financial Literacy University in Egypt (BUE). The tutorials were developed by volunteers from different departments at EFG Hermes in 5 online tutorials collaboration with the Green Team and are also available on the Firm’s YouTube channel and on Microsoft’s Masr Ta3mal portal. 5 universities EDUTAINMENT WITH KIDZANIA 940 students The EFG Hermes Foundation has remained committed to investing in youth empowerment, continuing during the second half of the year to sponsor school trips for 20,000 public school Edutainment with KidZania students to KidZania. The collaboration, which is now in its second year, has seen over 13,000 students from 130 public 130 public schools schools benefit from the hands on, entertaining learning experiences provided by the ‘edutainment’ facility. 13,000 students MAINSTREAMING HOPE In 2016, the EFG Hermes Foundation continued its support of The MOVE Foundation the MOVE Foundation for Children with Cerebral Palsy (CP), a non-profit organisation for underprivileged, disabled children. 90 beneficiaries to The MOVE Foundation was founded in 2004 and aspires to date improve the quality of life for disabled children and those who care for them by developing programmes that assist children to 20 children sit, stand and walk on their own through a combination of adaptive physical and arts-infused education. Children between mainstreamed into the ages of two and twelve years old receive quality one-on-one schools care and services including physiotherapy, occupational and speech/language therapy, and augmentative communication 35 children currently using computers and other handheld devices. supported The partnership between the EFG Hermes Foundation and MOVE promotes engagement at home, schools, work and society to break the social stigma and isolation of children with CP. Thanks to the support of the Foundation, to date, 90 children have received support and 20 have been successfully mainstreamed into the public school system or private educational centres providing them with hope of a rewarding future. In addition to providing financial support for MOVE programmes, the Foundation has worked to increase awareness of CP and MOVE programmes through social media and hopes to raise funds in 2017 to accommodate the growing waiting list of children in need of MOVE support. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 17 | P a g e GOING GREEN At EFG Hermes premises, we continually look for ways to reduce our environmental footprint and minimize environmental risks that come from our operations and supply chain. Many of our new initiatives originate as ideas suggested by employees, thanks to the enthusiasm and diligence of the Green Team in raising awareness on sustainability. BREAKING THE PLASTIC HABIT We are proud to announce that our headquarters, Jordan, Oman and GOING GREEN AT A Saudi Arabia offices have successfully become plastic-free zones. In just under two years, the efforts of our Green Team alongside the GLANCE compliance of our staff members has paid off. The initiative to Employees in Egypt HQ eradicate the use of disposable plastic cups in collaboration with the switching from plastic cups on-site coffee shop was the winning idea of the Firm’s first companywide sustainability competition. A date was set for removal of all 634 disposable plastic cups from our headquarters and a countdown Plastic cups saved campaign was rolled out on the company intranet to raise awareness on the detrimental effects of plastics on the environment. Employees were also encouraged to bring in their own reusable flasks for water 90,000 and coffee. Since then, the initiative has been successfully extended Free water flasks distributed to many of our other offices with more to come in 2017. to blue collar workers ENERGY: ON THE ROAD AND IN THE OFFICE 150 In 2016, we launched Felsekka, a carpooling initiative to encourage Trees saved our employees to reduce their carbon footprint while minimizing the stress of their daily commute and developing a friendlier association 166.5 with their colleagues. Felsekka facilitates the commute to and from work with colleagues through an online registration portal and a point LEDs installed system that can be transferred for each ride. A promising number of employees have signed on and new features are being developed to 1,410 encourage more employee engagement. We also continue our energy saving initiatives throughout our offices, such as replacing regular light bulbs with LEDs, applying UV protective window films and encouraging employees to switch off computers and practice mindfulness regarding energy use. We are happy to report that our UAE and Jordan offices and two of our Egypt branches (Nasr E-statements for Clients City and Assiut) are now entirely illuminated with energy-saving LEDs. (2016) PAPER: REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE We have instituted several measures to cut down on the amount of paper we use. During 2016, we started encouraging our clients to move to e-statements and the response has been very encouraging with the percentage increasing almost daily. paper 24% e-statement 76% EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 18 | P a g e Thanks to another entry to the quarterly sustainability competition, we have also replaced paper file presentations with e-presentations via iPads in the Board of Directors and committee meetings. We also encourage double-sided printing and the recycling of shredded paper throughout our operation. GREEN IT The IT Department has undertaken several initiatives to streamline its operation in line with Virtualization across EFG Hermes Offices (2016) sustainability guidelines. The most significant is the gradual migration to virtual servers to 100% decrease power consumption and replace legacy IT. To date, virtualization in the Egypt and UAE 50% offices has reached the target of 75%, with 73% for Jordan, 56% for Kuwait and 33% for Saudi 0% Arabia. Migrating the EFG Hermes e-mail Egypt Jordan Kuwait UAE KSA gateway to a secure, cloud-based server is Virtual servers Physical servers another significant step. Our IT Department has also successfully automated various reports to enhance performance and reduce paper waste. Additionally, power saving technologies such as firewalls and switches have been instituted for some of the financial business servers. Finally, all e-waste is disposed of through a company specialized in the secure recycling of electronic equipment. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 19 | P a g e BUILDING TOMORROW’S LEADERS It is thanks to our talented professionals that EFG Hermes has become the leading Middle East and North Africa financial services corporation. We believe that investing in the professional development and wellbeing of our employees is the only way to maintain our competitive edge and continue to create value for our clients and communities. Competition among financial institutions in the region is high. At EFG Hermes, we continuously evolve the methods we use to attract, develop and retain talent at all levels of our operation. Our approach involves three complementary techniques: LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT This year, we focussed our efforts on team building, organizing a highly successful team development event for employees from all the countries where we Wellbeing operate. The programme aimed at fostering interfunctional collaboration among team members, Process building a sense of trust and encouraging internal Improve problem-solving skills. -ment Learning & For the first time since 2008, we conducted two Development sessions of our in-class orientation programme in Egypt for new hires, including a section on sustainability initiatives and the EFG Hermes Foundation’s activities. Our Experiential Learning Programme for interns continued to grow with 102 participants in 2016, (up from 90 in 2015 and 54 in 2014). Over the past year, LEARNING & we delivered over 8,700 training hours and succeeded DEVELOPMENT in decreasing the percentage of untrained employees from 57.7% in 2015 to 46.6% in 2016. AT A GLANCE PROCESS IMPROVEMENT Our Human Resources Department continuously introduces Training hours process improvements that allow employees to seamlessly manage their affairs and complete various requirements on8,741 the-go. These include a new online system to provide new hires Percentage of employees with vital information ranging from minor details such as the who have received training dress code, to more important matters such as regulatory requirements and policies. 53.4% Our application, EFG Hermes Connect, streamlines processes Number of interns such as requesting vacations and HR letters, checking official holidays and pay, and provides access to all internal 102 announcements and other important information. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 20 | P a g e WELLBEING We strive to provide a positive work environment and offer tools WELLBEING and opportunities to help our employees take charge of their AT A GLANCE overall wellbeing. We provide an on-site gym and a ‘Fit-for-Life’ Football tournament exercise programme supervised by our certified fitness trainer. A nutritionist is also available to advise interested staff members on their nutritional habits. Moreover, we encourage staff 96 players members to participate in morale-raising group activities such as Table Tennis tournament the annual table tennis and football tournaments. In 2016, the team from our Dubai office fielded a solid team for the annual 42 players Bloomberg Square Mile Relay and hopes to claim one of the top Bloomberg Square Mile spots this year. Relay (Dubai) In recognition of World Health Day, we also launched an internal campaign to encourage EFG Hermes staff to stay fit and be 10 runners healthy by delivering inspirational quotes on the company Gym facilities intranet. On a different level, the EFG Hermes Foundation held a 56 members successful event at our Smart Village headquarters in Nutritionist services collaboration with Alef bookstores, bringing an impressive selection of English and Arabic titles directly to EFG Hermes staff 20 beneficiaries at a discount on all purchases. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 21 | P a g e INTEGRITY, TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY An energetic, proactive approach to corporate governance, compliance and auditing has helped EFG Hermes succeed in maintaining its reputation and market leadership in the face of global economic challenges and ongoing regional geopolitical unrest. Our clearly defined management processes, structures, and policies not only provide channels for appropriate decision-making and accountability, but reassure shareholders and clients that their investments are in safe hands. A clear set of principles governs the conduct of all EFG Hermes employees, from the Board of Directors down to the most junior staff member. EFG Hermes upholds a strict culture of compliance that allows it to manage the rules and regulations of multiple authorities and regulators in Egypt, Jordan, the GCC and beyond. Dealing with these types of challenges COMPLIANCE AT requires a clear compliance strategy built on a strong governance culture that promotes integrity, transparency, and accountability. A GLANCE Supplier Code of Conduct Our efforts to enhance the internal audit function are ongoing. We have signatories adopted continuous auditing as our new methodology, which requires performing more frequent risk-based reviews to enhance audit 56% monitoring. We have also expanded our audit scope to assess business Employees who have conformity to sustainability KPIs. Moreover, the audit team also completed mandatory conducted a full review of EFG Hermes Leasing to ensure that the newly courses: launched leasing activities are included as part of the firm’s compliance coverage. Anti-fraud Signing the Supplier Code of Conduct has now become a requirement for 92% all suppliers and mandates that they abide by our sustainability commitments and all applicable laws regarding labour, human rights, Anti-money laundering health and safety, environmental protection, and ethical practices. To date, more than 56% of suppliers have signed with 44% pending in 2017. 93% The IT Department continues the implementation of its cybersecurity Cybersecurity plan, which was officially introduced to employees through a mandatory online course. The compliance team also completed a year-long process 90% to become compliant with the US government’s Foreign Account Tax Sustainability Compliance Act (FATCA), which came into effect in 2014. 90.5% ‘VOICE IT’ In 2015, Internal Audit launched a mechanism called ‘Voice It’, an online tool for employees at all levels across the firm to communicate new ideas and voice complaints anonymously and discreetly. ‘Voice It’ grievance/suggestion boxes were also installed in our office in Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The mechanism has proved a successful conduit for employee concerns at all levels. In 2016, 20 complaints were submitted through the online account and all cases were handled and properly communicated to relevant parties. Employee Orientation To ensure that all our employees including our new hires are fully aligned, we have developed a new orientation package in partnership with our HR Department that is designed to give trainees and newly hired employees a comprehensive view of how the firm operates. EFG Hermes—UNGC CoP 2016 22 | P a g e
