Sustainability A keen awareness of our social responsibility runs through everything we do: it shapes our business policy, our strategy, and every other aspect of our corporation. 1 Business ethics Compliance with ethical standards completed the course in 2015 and 2016 and are required to repeat it We respect universal ethical principles. The UN Global Compact each year. commits companies to overarching principles on human rights, labor, the environment and corruption while advancing socially beneficial Anti-corruption goals. As supporters of the UN Global Compact, we submit an We have stringent anti-bribery regulations that are central to our annual Communication on Progress (COP) report that describes how ongoing efforts to eliminate corruption in any form and at all levels. we implement its ten principles in each of the four areas listed As a company operating internationally, we inevitably have business above. We also inform our internal and external stakeholders openly dealings in countries where corruption is widespread. Thus it’s about our efforts to apply strict moral and ethical standards to essential that our people have clear, objective guidelines that equip everything we do, at every level of our business. More detailed them to deal with any form of corruption to which they may be information about the Communication on Progress (COP) can be exposed. In 2016, u-blox had a clean record on corruption and found at www.unglobalcompact.com human rights and faced no investigations or legal proceedings. Company-wide Code of Conduct Insider trading Our workforce is highly diverse, comprising individuals from every u-blox employees are forbidden to trade company’s shares during times part of the world. This fact makes it all the more important for us to when knowledge of specific information could influence the stock price. have a set of shared values we can all identify with. u-blox’s Code of Conduct is firmly based on the UN Global Compact and can be Political affiliations accessed in seven languages on the corporate intranet, together with u-blox neither funds nor subsidizes any political party or organizations. other relevant information. The Code of Conduct stipulates the ethical standards and behavior we require from our employees and Privacy, confidentiality and data protection external third parties acting on our behalf. In 2015, to help ensure As part of its compliance with all relevant data protection that our people remain aware of our Code of Conduct and antilegislation, u-blox makes every effort to ensure that its employees’ bribery guidelines, we set up an e-learning course. u-blox employees personal data is treated in the strictest confidence. 2 Our employees On December 31, 2016, u-blox’s workforce stood at 836. Of these, Annual performance review meetings are a valuable means of 24.3% worked at corporate headquarters in Thalwil, Switzerland, discussing employees’ performance over the preceding twelve with the remaining 75.7% at 14 R&D centers and 15 sales and months and obtaining direct feedback on their satisfaction. We marketing offices in countries all over the world. This global have a set of compensation and promotion guidelines based firmly structure reflects a recruitment policy based on diversity: only by on clearly defined individual and corporate goals. The company has employing the very best people at locations worldwide can we a reputation for being an attractive employer and regularly features maintain our leading market position. in the Swiss top-100 employers list. In 2016, we also conducted our biennial Group-wide satisfaction survey: 79% participated. A solid reputation as an attractive employer Employee commitment remains very high. 84.5% stated I would In markets as competitive and highly skilled as those in which we give my best . Staff turnover in 2016 stood at 6.7% (2015: 8.7%). operate, we need the very best individuals available. Finding them and ensuring that they stay with us is thus a top priority. We help Striking a healthy life/work balance them to develop their professional skills and attain their full Employees who are content with their lives at home and at work potential: ultimately, their sense of achievement and fulfillment are more engaged and efficient. Life-quality plays a central role benefits both them and the company. Our annual appraisal process here, and we take proactive measures to increase it by offering our helps employees stay focused on their personal objectives, while a people flexible working hours together with work, remuneration policy of promoting our own people to vacant management and vacation programs tailored precisely to their needs. After five positions provides them with additional incentive. In 2016, salaries years with u-blox, employees are free to take a sabbatical. Apart and social benefits amounted to CHF 65.8 million (compared with from this, we offer interactive, real-time internal communications CHF 59.2 million in 2015). that keep them fully and regularly informed about the state of the company. Naturally, u-blox has a fair and non-discriminatory employment policy. Nevertheless, the proportion of male employees is Performance indicators 2015 2016 significantly higher than female, though the balance is improving. Total headcount (end of the year) 750 884 At the end of 2016 women accounted for 15.4% of the workforce, Jobs created 126 134 compared to 13.7% in 2015. Executive management is exclusively Women in overall workforce 13.7% 15.4% male, and the seven-strong Board of Directors comprises only one woman to six men. The reason for the discrepancy lies in the Part-time employees 7.3% 8.4% predominance of engineering positions in the company’s Fluctuation 8.7% 6.7% workforce, for which only a small number of women are suitably qualified. In other, non-product-related areas, such as HR, administration and logistics, the proportion of women is over 70%. We have a vested interest in helping to redress the overall situation and actively support various initiatives and programs to attract women to engineering studies at university level. Employees per region (end of 2016, FTE based) Employees per function (end of 2016, FTE based) APAC Logistics, admin 19% (162) 14% (120) Americas 8% (68) Switzerland 24% (200) Sales, marketing, Research & support development 67% (559) 19% (157) Rest of EMEA 49% (406) Sustainability | Page 47 3 Social commitment Through our past involvement in projects with a social or healthIn 2016, u-blox donated 500 4G cellular modules to No Isolation. related component, we have established a reputation for taking our These enable the AV1 to transmit audio and video signals from any corporate social responsibility seriously. We use our human, financial location with 4G coverage and eliminate the need to connect the and technological resources to initiate change and make robot to a local wireless network (LAN). The avatar is completely communities stronger. within the child’s control and features a camera, microphone and speaker, which stream live to the child’s smartphone or tablet, One area that recurs continuously in our project portfolio is health, allowing him to see and hear the avatar’s surroundings in real time, and 2016 was no exception. to talk with his own voice and to decide in which direction to look. One of the projects we support is called No Isolation. This connected No Isolation’s award-winning avatar helps to overcome the feeling of healthcare start-up in Norway has pioneered an avatar for children social isolation experienced by many sick children who are forced to with long-term illnesses who are confined to home or hospital for stay away from school. The project demonstrates the power of lengthy periods. Essentially a robot, the AV1 avatar takes the child’s u-blox’s technology to solve a long-term children’s health issue and place in the classroom, on excursions and even at birthday parties, epitomizes the company’s vision of an Internet of Things That Really enabling the child to participate in everyday events when the medical Matter. condition prevents him from being physically present. No Isolation's avatar AV1. The avatar enables children to participate in everyday events. The avatar takes the child's place in the class room. Page 56 | Sustainability Page 48 | Sustainability 4 Supply chain sustainability 5 Environmental issues Upholding responsibility in the supply chain Treating our planet with care and respect Introduced in 2012, u-blox’s Sustainable Supplier Program was u-blox already has an exacting set of environment-protection designed to guarantee safe working conditions all the way down measures in place. Despite this, we never rest in our efforts to the supply chain line, to ensure that workers the world over are ensure more effective control of our sustainability objectives. We treated with due respect and consideration and to limit the require the same demanding standards from our suppliers as we environmental impact of operations. The Program is based on the set for ourselves and work with our principal contract manufacturers principles of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) to make them even more stringent. For years now, we have closely Code of Conduct, a coalition of the world’s leading electronics monitored the use of potentially hazardous materials at every stage companies that aims to improve labor and human rights, worker of the production cycle. health and safety, social, ethical, and environmental responsibility and management systems in the global supply chain. We carry out We operate a zero-tolerance policy towards conflict materials from sustainable auditing of our supply chain internally and inspect a any source and maintain close links with our suppliers to ensure selected group of suppliers’ factories each year. that all the metals used in our products – gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum – are from acceptable sources. We are a fabless semiconductor company and ethically bound to demand that our key manufacturing partners comply with clearly defined environmental standards. Enforcing these requirements is a complicated and time-consuming exercise, and we take steps to ease the burden by gathering and storing essential and otherwise useful data while monitoring compliance. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Curbing our production of carbon dioxide is a process that starts at headquarters in Thalwil and runs all the way down the value chain. We take active steps to dissuade employees from using their own vehicles for the daily commute by reimbursing the cost of the journey to and from work by public transport. We have radically cut back on the need for our employees to travel to meetings abroad by installing new video-conferencing facilities at all major offices worldwide. And by outsourcing the production of our components to external manufacturers with ISO 14001 certification and their own CO2-reduction programs, we are able to lower our overall carbon dioxide output. Finally, the products we develop and produce substantially reduce CO2 emissions. Our sensors eliminate the need for utility companies to send employees on costly and environmentally damaging journeys merely to read meters. GPS tracking enables cars to take the most efficient route from one place to another. And wireless communication from sensor-activated systems make it possible for local authorities to provide street lighting only when it is needed, massively reducing the burden on their finances and the amount of electricity used. And as new ways of using our products are invented on a daily basis, their environmental contribution grows exponentially. employees | Page 57 SustainabilitySustainability 53 Sustainability | Page 49
