BUILDING CONNECTIONS CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONT ENTS CONTENTS INSIDE THE REPORT Stakeholder Letter 3 Shared Advantage 5 Inside CBRE 8 Environmental Sustainability 15 Thank you for reviewing our People & Culture 31 2016 Corporate Responsibility Health & Safety 44 Report, which demonstrates CBRE’s connection to our Communities & Giving 49 RISE values and creating Procurement 54 shared advantage as the global industry leader. Ethics & Compliance 58 DAVID L. POGUE Governance 65 Global Director Corporate Responsibility GRI Content Index | UNGC 10 Principles 70 Thank you in advance for considering the environment by printing only specific pages, if desired. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 2 ST AK EHOLDE R LETT E R STAKEHOLDER LETTER [102-14] CBRE’s CULTURE AND RISE VALUES are at the heart of our success, and we are proud of our people’s commitment to acting responsibly and with integrity while producing great outcomes for our clients. During the 10 years since CBRE published its first annual Corporate Responsibility Report, we have made significant progress in embedding responsible business practices into our day-to-day operations. This year, we have again engaged with our key stakeholders – employees, shareholders, suppliers, clients and community leaders – to better understand their most important concerns. In light of their input, we have set goals and performance standards to ensure that our practices are more purposeful, globally consistent, impactful and measurable. We have improved our data collection and analytical capabilities to more transparently report on our progress. And importantly, we have the support from our Board of Directors to create a world-class CR program over time. We recognize the role we play in the communities in which we work and are striving to develop thoughtful business solutions to address issues such as resource management, environmental impact, community improvement, and workplace health and safety. The extent of our commitment is reflected in our support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we have participated in since 2007. We invite you to review our 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report, where you will learn more about our accomplishments and our strong commitment to creating advantages for all our stakeholders. Robert E. Sulentic President & Chief Executive Officer CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 SHARED ADVANTAGE CONNEC TIONS CONTENTS SHARED ADVANT AG E KEY LINKS The Brickyard Case Study UCLA Blum Center Sustainable Development Goals CBRE Employee Advantage SHARED ADVANTAGE MUCH HAS CHANGED in the 10 years since CBRE began measuring and reporting on its corporate responsibility activities. Perhaps no single aspect of the knowledge gained is as crucial as this recognition: All business activity has impacts, and the most responsible companies are those that closely align their CR efforts with their specific business activities. These companies are succeeding in developing close alignments by creating market-driven solutions that serve their communities while growing the bottom line. It’s a win-win approach to socially responsible business we call: SHARED ADVANTAGE. Share Advantage We have always understood that the built environment has an impact on the natural creates long-term environment and the health and well-being of a local community. At each step of the real estate process – from project development through asset management, value for both CBRE property management, financing and sales – there are identified practices and and the communities policies that not only minimize that impact, but through their purposeful application ensure that the properties we represent: we serve  Enhance and strengthen communities  Provide healthy and productive places to live, work and play  Produce strong financial returns For much of the past decade, CBRE has been developing and introducing a wide range of practices, programs and policies that, taken together, have significantly improved our environmental and CR performance. Our efforts going forward will be more focused on formalizing these actions in ways that consistently deliver a mutual benefit to all our stakeholders. An early adopter of the Shared Advantage concept is the Trammell Crow CASE STUDY Company, which has taken a leadership role in reimagining its definition of sustainability and creating a more community-focused development approach. This commitment is being replicated through similar initiatives in other CBRE business lines, including investment strategies and property management. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 CONTENTS SHARED ADVANT AG E ACADEMIC RESEARCH CBRE is partnering To guide the development of integrated Shared Advantage business strategies, with UCLA in CBRE has partnered with the UCLA Blum Center on Poverty and Health in Latin America in an academic study to better understand how the built environment groundbreaking impacts community wellness. This research also analyzes direct connections of the research built environment to the global Sustainable Development Goals and how CBRE’s Shared Advantage can play a role in achieving them. Shared Advantage Principles Among other outcomes, the CBRE-UCLA research team has developed a working set of principles to determine how Shared Advantage:  Generates economic value by embracing opportunity related to a social or environmental issue  Leverages the power of market-based competition in creating solutions to specific social challenges  Brings direct economic advantage to CBRE and the community through mutually beneficial partnerships  Provides an integrated means of ensuring the success of CBRE and the community are synonymous  Creates meaningful long-term economic and social value that outweighs the short-term costs of investment TAKE ADVANTAGE Please take advantage of this opportunity to look more closely inside CBRE. We hope you recognize that our greatest advantage is people – individuals connected to a global network of industry expertise, working at a local level to generate sustained growth and continuous opportunity for both the company and the communities we serve. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 6 INSIDE CBRE CONNEC TIONS CONTENTS I N S ID E C B RE KEY LINKS Form 10-K CBRE Corporate Responsibility Contact Us INSIDE CBRE CBRE is the world’s CBRE GROUP, INC. is a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in largest commercial Los Angeles, and is the world’s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm. [102-1, 102-3] real estate services and investment firm CBRE offers a broad range of integrated services, including facilities, transaction and project management; property management; investment management; appraisal and valuation; property leasing; strategic consulting; property sales; mortgage services and development services. We provide commercial real estate services under the “CBRE” brand name, investment management services under the “CBRE Global Investors” brand name and development services under the “Trammell Crow Company” brand name. [102-2] CBRE Group, Inc. is incorporated in Delaware in the United States. Our Class A common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol CBG [102-5]. Please see our Form 10-K for details on the entities included in our financial statements, which are also included in this report. [102-45] CBRE’s position as the world’s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm has occurred through organic growth and a series of strategic acquisitions. There were not any significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain in 2016. [102-10] OPERATIONS [102-4, 102-6, 102-7] CBRE operates in approximately 450 offices and serves clients in more than 100 CBRE operates in countries worldwide. In 2016, CBRE advised clients on 85,550 property sales and approx. 450 offices lease transactions valued at more than $322.2 billion. As of December 31, 2016, we managed 5.3 billion square feet of commercial properties and corporate and more than facilities around the world (including property managed by our affiliate offices). 100 countries Commercial mortgage loan originations, including loan sale advisory, totaled $43.3 billion; and loan servicing totaled $144.8 billion. We completed 467,575 appraisal and valuation assignments in 2016, including 292,350 residential valuation assignments in Asia Pacific, and our project management contract value was $42.0 billion. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 8 CONTENTS I N S ID E C B RE CBRE Global Investors had $86.6 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2016, and Trammell Crow Company had $6.6 billion of development in process. CBRE revenue in 2016 totaled $13.1 billion. We report our operations through five business segments. The Americas is our largest reporting segment of operations and provides a comprehensive range of commercial real estate services throughout the U.S. and Canada as well as key markets in Latin America. Our Americas segment accounted for 55.3% of our 2016 revenue. Our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) reporting segment services clients in approximately 60 countries. The largest operations are located in France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our EMEA segment accounted for 30.0% of 2016 revenue. Our Asia Pacific reporting segment serves clients in 16 countries. Our largest operations in Asia are located in greater China, India, Japan, Singapore and Thailand. The Pacific region includes Australia and New Zealand. Our Asia Pacific segment accounted for 11.4% of our 2016 revenue. Operations in our Global Investment Management reporting segment are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE Global Investors, LLC and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Global Investors. CBRE Global Investors provides investment management services to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments and other institutional investors seeking to generate returns and diversification through investment in real estate. Our Global Investment Management segment accounted for 2.8% of our 2016 revenue. Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company, LLC and certain of its subsidiaries provide development services, primarily in the United States, to users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. Our Development Services segment accounted for 0.5% of our 2016 revenue. ABOUT THIS REPORT This report provides an overview of the economic, environmental and social impacts of CBRE globally in 2016. This is our tenth annual Corporate Responsibility Report, with the most recent report (our 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report) published in September 2016 [102-51, 102-52]. Except where noted, the information covered in this report highlights our corporate responsibility initiatives in fiscal year 2016 (January 1, 2016, through December 31, 2016). When available and significant, updates through early 2017 are included [102-50]. This report has not been externally assured. [102-56] After publishing our 2015 report, we updated the methodology that we use to calculate our greenhouse gas emissions. We recalculated our 2015 Scope 1 and 2 CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 CONTENTS I N S ID E C B RE emissions using this new methodology since this is the base year for our emissions reduction goal. The updated 2015 figures are included in the Environmental Sustainability section of this report. [102-48] GRI Standards: This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option Core option [102-54]. Locations of GRI disclosures are included throughout the report using the notation [XXX-XX]. This report and future updates can be accessed at cbre.com/responsibility. For questions regarding the report or its contents, contact responsibility@cbre.com. [102-53] MATERIAL TOPICS [102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-49] CBRE conducted its first materiality assessment in early 2015, the results from which can be found in our 2014 and 2015 Corporate Responsibility Reports. In early 2017, CBRE conducted a second materiality assessment to determine the topics that currently reflect our economic, environmental and social impacts as well as those that influence the decisions of our stakeholders. Our corporate responsibility team reviewed topics included in the GRI Standards and a number of ratings and rankings assessments to develop a list of 33 topics that could be considered material to a business such as ours. An online survey tool was used to gather the opinions of internal and external stakeholders on each topic. Internal stakeholders were asked, with regard to each topic, if CBRE creates a significant impact on the environment, society and/or economy. They were also asked whether they believe CBRE actively manages the topic and, if so, how effectively it is managed. External stakeholders ranked each topic based on the degree to which the issue affects their assessments and decisions about CBRE. All stakeholders were asked where in CBRE’s supply chain was the issue relevant (suppliers/vendors, corporate operations and/or clients). Most of the topics are material within the boundaries of our operational control, with some topics also being material to our suppliers and/or clients. The survey was sent to all members of CBRE’s Global Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee, as well as other internal stakeholders who work directly on the topics included in the survey. The survey was also sent to more than 80 external stakeholders, including representatives of key clients, suppliers, governments and nongovernmental associations (NGOs), as well as industry associations, universities and research entities. The survey results were then plotted to a matrix and vetted with key stakeholders. We plan to use the results of the materiality assessment to refine our corporate responsibility strategy and goals. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 10 CONTENTS I N S ID E C B RE Although some topics have shifted within the materiality matrix, there are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic boundaries. This report includes detailed information on the issues that were determined to be the most material to CBRE and our stakeholders. These include professional integrity, anti-corruption, diversity & inclusion and occupational health & safety. We will continue to assess these issues on a regular basis to ensure our actions and our reporting reflect our significant impacts and stakeholder priorities. We plan to conduct our next materiality assessment in late 2018/early 2019. MATERIAL TOPICS: Anti-Corruption Professional Integrity Diversity & Inclusion Occupational Health & Safety STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT [102-40, 102-42, 102-43] CBRE defines our We define our stakeholders to be individuals and organizations who can impact or stakeholders as be impacted by our operations. CBRE’s stakeholders include shareholders, clients, employees, communities, CBRE affiliates and joint ventures, suppliers and vendors, having an impact on commercial real estate services and investment industry organizations, regulating the organization bodies, advocacy and activist groups, governmental organizations and regulating bodies, NGOs and competitors. We interact with stakeholders throughout the year in a number of ways, including quarterly earnings calls, regular customer satisfaction surveys and industry events. As noted earlier, we also engaged directly with a number of stakeholders through the development of our materiality assessment, the results of which helped define content for this report. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 CONTENTS I N S ID E C B RE Mechanisms for Engagement CLIENTS • Customer satisfaction surveys • Localized research resources and insights • Client Care program INVESTORS & ANALYSTS • Quarterly earnings calls • Regular investor presentations, events and one-on-one meetings • Surveys and requests for information • Annual Investor Day EMPLOYEES • Global employee intranet • Email communications • Annual performance reviews COMMUNITIES • Employee volunteering • Donations to charitable organizations MEDIA • Interviews with CBRE leadership/SMEs • Multiple social media channels NGOs & ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS • Partnership in research studies • Attendance at conferences and events • Surveys and requests for information INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS • Attendance at conferences and events • Participation on boards and committees AWARDS AND HONORS  Ranked 15th on Forbes America’s Best Employers List in 2016 CBRE continues to be  Included in Fortune’s Most Admired Companies for five consecutive years recognized for its  Named to Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America in 2014, 2015 and 2016 industry leadership  Listed on FTSE4Good in 2014, 2015 and 2016  Included in Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 2016 100 Best Corporate Citizens List  Named a World’s Most Ethical Company by Ethisphere Institute for four straight years  Received a 2017 EPA ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence Award, marking the 10th consecutive year of ENERGY STAR recognition  Achieved a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index for four straight years  Named to Military Times’ Best for Vets: Employers in 2015 and 2016  Named to the Companies That Care Honor Roll for 10 consecutive years CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 12 CONTENTS I N S ID E C B RE MEMBERSHIPS AND INITIATIVES CBRE is a member of a number of organizations, including:  Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA)  Building Owners and Managers Institute (BOMI)  Business Roundtable  Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship (BCCCC)  Business in the Community (BITC)  Center for Climate and Energy Solutions’ Business Environmental Leadership Council (C2ES BELC)  Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB)  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  Green Rating Alliance  International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC)  NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate Development Association  Real Estate Roundtable  U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) [102-13] CBRE subscribes to and/or endorses a number of external initiatives, including:  CDP  Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY STAR®  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol  International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001  Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)®  Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001  Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)  United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  WELL Building Standard (WELL) [102-12] CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY C O N NEC T I O NS CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY KEY LINKS CBRE Environmental Policy ENERGY STAR Press Release Wellness in the Workplace The Business of Green The Brickyard Case Study ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY As the world’s largest real estate services firm, we take seriously our role in understanding, addressing and communicating the benefits of resource efficiency in the built environment and the value of innovative design on employee health and productivity. CORPORATE OPERATIONS Policy CBRE has had a In 2007, CBRE announced our position on environmental sustainability, recognizing the responsibility that comes with our industry leadership position. 10-year commitment Since then, we have improved our internal operations, engaged our clients to Environmental globally to assist them in their sustainable practices and collaborated with Sustainability non-governmental organizations in dialogue around environmental sustainability. In 2010, we became the first company in our industry to achieve carbon neutrality in its operations. We updated our environmental sustainability policy in 2012 and again in 2016. The 2016 Environmental Sustainability Policy covers nine tenets: TENETS  Environmental Targets  Occupancy  Internal Certification  Client Services  Public Policy  Thought Leadership  Compliance with Laws and Regulations  Corporate Responsibility and Reporting  Global Corporate Responsibility Governance CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Workplace Strategy In 2012, CBRE began researching the concept that would become Workplace360, our global workplace strategy initiative. The initiative launched in the U.S. in 2013 with the opening of our global corporate headquarters in Los Angeles. We have opened approximately 50 Workplace360 offices worldwide to date. Each Workplace360 Each Workplace360 office is a “free address” and paperless environment, supported by leading-edge technology tools and platforms. Assigned offices and office reduces our workstations are eliminated – instead, up to 15 different types of workspaces are employee density offered based on carefully calculated employee usage patterns. In these new footprint to approx. spaces we have reduced our footprint to a density of 150 square feet per person while offering greater functionality and flexibility, resulting in lower energy use 150 SF and carbon emissions. An added environmental outcome of Workplace360 is a significant reduction in the amount of paper used in our business operation. Each office undergoing conversion first dramatically reduces its paper files through purging, resulting in recycling 60-80% of all paper in the office, and then digitizes the remainder to personalized cloud storage libraries. As a result, we have reduced our file storage space by more than 30,000 square feet in the U.S. We have also introduced a comprehensive “follow me printing” policy that consolidates all printing to central locations. Post-occupancy surveys in the U.S. show that employees have embraced the Workplace360 concept: • 93% of employees surveyed believe Workplace360 reflects a reinvestment in employees, processes and technology • 93% would not go back to the old way of working • 86% believe the new environment creates a positive effect on their health and well-being • 79% of employees feel more productive in a Workplace360 environment compared to their previous office space Occupancy As our Environmental Sustainability Policy states, we give preference to certified green buildings for our leased corporate facilities and/or pursue interior design and construction certification using recognized green building standards for our relocated or refurbished facilities larger than 20,000 square feet. Currently, 88% of these spaces have been certified under green building certification schemes such as LEED, BREEAM and NABERS. In total, 105 CBRE offices across 16 countries and totaling 3.2 million square feet, or approximately 64% of our global occupied space, are certified. The vast majority of our corporate occupancy occurs as a tenant in multi-tenant office buildings. We do not own any properties where our offices are located. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 16 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY This occupancy strategy allows maximum flexibility in our space decisions; however, it complicates our efforts to measure, manage and mitigate our resource consumption, as most of the leased locations feature full building utility meters. To measure our own use requires the installation of separate utility meters. We have installed 159 submeters in 41 U.S. offices to date, totaling 1.3 million square feet. This equates to approximately 26% of our global footage. Globally, 192 offices have submeters, totaling 3 million square feet or 61% of our global occupied space. Per our environmental sustainability policy, we will continue to promote the installation of submeters so that we can increase the accuracy of our energy consumption data and actively work to reduce our consumption. Internal Certification As established in our Environmental Sustainability Policy, we promote the annual CBRE-developed office certification program to all offices globally over 5,000 square feet. This program assesses offices for operational improvement and efficiency to maximize resource conservation and reduce our environmental impact. CBRE offices improved In 2016, 195 CBRE offices around the world participated in the certification their Gold level program. One office achieved the highest level of Platinum, while 26 earned the Gold level – an improvement of 300% from 2015. Additionally, 67 offices certification rating earned the Silver level and 66 earned the Bronze level. by 300% in 2016 Notable highlights from participating offices include: • 98% of offices have eliminated bottled water and only offer filtered water to employees and guests • 95% of offices with vending machines include healthy and low sugar food options • 93% of offices have recycling programs in place • 89% of offices use green cleaning products to improve indoor air quality • 60% of offices have converted to paperless file systems Emissions and Energy We have calculated our operational carbon footprint annually since 2008. In 2016, we developed our first global emissions reduction goal, which is an absolute goal to reduce Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2035, using a baseline year of 2015. Reduction will be accomplished through the following actions: CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY • Space attrition & efficiencies gained through introduction of Workplace 360 initiative • Energy reduction through implementation of energy efficiency projects and best practices in occupied offices • Planned elimination of data centers through migration to cloud-based technology • Purchase of green power where we have direct control and/or influence over utility meters • Purchase of Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) While we feel this is a science based target, we understand that we cannot have this target approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI) until we also set a Scope 1 emissions reduction goal. We plan to set a Scope 1 emissions reduction goal by the end of 2018. CBRE reduced its Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are outlined in the table below. Our energy Scope 2 emissions consumption is also detailed in an accompanying table. We reduced Scope 2 emissions 12.6% in 2016 compared to 2015 despite a 470,000 square foot by more than 12% increase in occupied space (due to acquisitions). This exceeded our goal by 9.6%. In 2016, we were able to collect complete global data for our Scope 1 emissions for the first time, which explains the significant increase from 2015 to 2016. This also explains the increase in our fuel consumption from 2015 to 2016. Our 2016 Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions were third-party verified by Bureau Veritas. Additional details on our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions and our energy consumption can be found in our annual CDP climate change disclosure, available on the CDP website. CARBON FOOTPRINT OF CBRE OPERATIONS1 [305-1, 305-2] 2015 2016 Scope 1 30,928 63,414 Scope 2 33,949 29,678 PROGRESS TOWARD SCOPE 2 GOAL1 2015 2016 2025 2035 Baseline 33,949 Emissions 29,678 Goal 23,764 Goal 16,974 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY CBRE OPERATIONS2 [302-1] 2015 2016 Fuel 128,645 261,050 Electricity 67,814 60,329 Heat 16,159 18,552 TOTAL 212,618 339,931 1 Metric tons CO2e | 2 MWh CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 18 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Training CBRE continues to place a strong focus on equipping building staff with the knowledge, proper tools and best practices they need to successfully manage and reduce energy consumption. In partnership with Building Owners and Managers Association International (BOMA), CBRE licenses BOMA Energy Efficiency Program (BEEP) training and offers weekly webinars to employees. Using the EPA ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager as a foundational tool, BEEP educates industry professionals on how to reduce energy consumption and costs with proven noand low-cost strategies for optimizing equipment, people and practices. While this training program requirement has been in place for many years for all property management staff, during 2016 the training curriculum was expanded as required learning for all national engineering staff. In total, nearly 20,000 attendees have participated in the four-part weekly training series. CBRE’s sustainability While many of our brokers have already made sustainability a consistent and training video was regular aspect of their practice, we believe all CBRE brokers should have a fundamental understanding of this market dynamic. To address this, we viewed more than developed “The Business of Green for Brokers” in 2015. This concise training 5,000 times in 2016 video features our clients and brokers describing the various motivations for sustainability, and energy management in particular, and the successful outcomes they’ve achieved. In 2016, we expanded availability of the training program to all employees globally and incorporated it as a component of the required new hire and onboarding curriculum for all brokerage staff. The brokerage sustainability video module was viewed 5,825 times in 2016. The CBRE Asia team launched a dedicated training module on the company’s corporate responsibility platform and sustainability services in August 2016. The module is an Asia-specific version which highlights our global and regional commitments and achievements on environmental sustainability. The launch is being implemented in two phases, with the first phase covering employees in CBRE offices in China, Hong Kong, India, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Vietnam. As of March 1, 2017, more than 2,500 employees in the region had completed the training module. Green Week Green Week provides an important opportunity for CBRE employees to focus on environmental behaviors, resource efficiencies and community involvement – supporting the company’s commitment to sustainability and reinforcing our role as the industry leader in green. During CBRE’s fourth annual Green Week (October 10-14, 2016), local offices around the world engaged in challenging conservation activities, participated in educational events and shared their success stories on sustainable workplace practices. Besides building a “deeper green” into the organizational culture, Green Week demonstrates a model of improved business efficiency that supports the sustainable behaviors and practices we offer to our clients. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 2016 HIGHLIGHTS • 16,000+ CBRE Employees • 185 Global Offices Participating • 330+ Green Week Initiatives Globally • 944 Tweets and 3.9M Twitter impressions Compliance It is our policy to It is our policy to implement environmentally sustainable best practices and to implement best meet both the letter and the spirit of all environmental laws and regulations where we do business. [307-1] practices that meet In 2016, we were not issued any fines in violation of environmental regulations or both the letter and laws, nor have we been responsible for or party to any significant environmental spirit of the law pollution incidents. ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY SERVICES Our Global Energy and Sustainability team provides complete life-cycle solutions to CBRE clients around the world. As stated in our Environmental Sustainability Policy, we develop and provide comprehensive energy and sustainability advice and services to our clients, encouraging and collaborating with them to adopt or enhance responsible environmental policies and practices in their real estate holdings whenever possible and seek to elevate their disclosure rankings. EMEA Our EMEA sustainability team offers a wide range of services across the region, including audits, project management, environmental impact assessments, Our EMEA team began sustainability master plans for new developments and more. In 2016, the team offering socioeconomic also began offering socioeconomic and health impact assessments. Our regional team of more than 100 specialists features market-specific skills such as ISO and health impact 14001 and 50001 certifications, Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark assessments in 2016 (GRESB) reporting assistance, and leads our global sustainability due diligence and repositioning strategies for acquisitions. The CBRE EMEA sustainability team manages our blog, The Green Perspective, which features articles on climate change, sustainable workplaces, policy changes and more. In 2016, CBRE continued to innovate in the area of workplace wellness. The EMEA Global Workplace Innovations team released the Wellness in the Workplace whitepaper, which identified five trends that are driving interest in wellness in the workplace. The CBRE Netherlands team, in conjunction with University of Twente, conducted groundbreaking healthy offices research that confirmed the relationship between people’s working environment and their health, well-being and ability to perform. Additionally, the EMEA Workplace and Sustainability teams collaborated to launch a new wellness service for office CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 20 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY occupiers and developers to help them build health and wellbeing considerations into building design, fit out and organizational policies. CBRE is also actively supporting developer and occupier clients in the U.K. and mainland Europe in obtaining WELL certification. The CBRE U.K. team has introduced a new service, Asset Analytics, to improve Asset Analytics saved sustainability performance through big data. The service is a cloud-based CBRE clients more platform that has the capability to connect to any modern building, providing real time understanding of building performance. The platform was developed than £500,000 in in-house to provide landlords and tenants with a streamlined approach to energy costs in 2016 monitor key energy and occupier comfort information, to allow faster identification of faults and to enable the management of healthier, more sustainable buildings. In the first year of implementation, Asset Analytics saved clients over £500,000 in energy costs by lowering consumption. The platform is deployed across 2.5 million square feet in the U.K. and is now expanding into mainland Europe. The Netherlands team worked with Asset Services and client CBRE Global Investors Dutch Retail Fund to transform the 25-year-old shopping center Heuvel Gallerie Eindhoven into a revitalized community asset with impressive environmental sustainability improvements. The team used BREEAM In-Use as not just a green building rating tool, but as a methodology to guide holistic sustainability improvement. The project achieved a 38% reduction in electricity consumption, 32% reduction in gas consumption, 11% reduction in water use and 6% reduction in waste generated. In 2016, the center achieved a BREEAM In-Use Outstanding rating, the highest possible, for both Asset and Operational aspects, with a score that made it the highest rated center in Europe. Heuvel Gallerie went on to win the International BREEAM Award for Retail In-Use in 2017. In a collaborative effort by CBRE’s French and Spanish offices, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Paris headquarters was awarded Platinum certification, the highest possible grade, under the LEED for Commercial Interiors scheme by the U.S. Green Building Council. This 2016 accomplishment marks the first time an office has achieved this accolade in France. In a global effort, the CBRE Germany team worked in collaboration with CBRE colleagues in Spain, Japan and Singapore to conduct sustainability assessments for selected properties owned by a German fund manager to identify potential improvements across environmental, economic and social/functional aspects of the properties. The evaluation reviewed technical building systems as well as the buildings’ operational processes, focusing on energy, water, waste and indoor air quality. The CBRE Czech Republic team created the Meeting Room of the Year competition in 2014 with an ambition to highlight the best office environment (not just meeting rooms) and drive innovation in areas such as Healthy Office, Smart Office, and Future-proof and Innovative Offices. Since its inception, more than 210 companies have participated, producing 93 finalists, and the competition has inspired similar events in Austria, Slovakia, Romania and Poland. A list of the 2016 winners can be found online. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY APAC The Pacific Sustainability team offers consulting services to building owners and occupiers that include National Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS), Green Star – Performance and WELL Certifications; environmental management plans (as per government green lease requirements); building improvement plans; advice on finance incentives available for building upgrades; wellness consulting and strategy development. Our CBRE In 2016, the team provided more than 170 NABERS Energy ratings, an increase Sustainability team of 18% over the previous year. Total sustainability fees increased by 35% compared to 2015 as a result of increased collaboration across teams, an increased its increased number of NABERS tracking reports and new revenue streams such as NABERS ratings wellness consulting and environmental management plans. by 18% The team was appointed to conduct the first NABERS energy assessments in Hong Kong in 2016, an industry first. The use of the Australian-based NABERS program moved real estate closer to the internationalization of energy benchmarking. In total, more than 1.6 million square meters of space was rated with NABERS by the team. CBRE Pacific has a dedicated sustainability team who monitor and manage environmental performance for the Dexus national office portfolio. This portfolio includes 56 rated office properties, with 50% of its properties having a 5.0 Star or better energy rating in the 2015/2016 financial year. This is a significant improvement from 24.7% in 2014/2015 as a result of the governance and monitoring by CBRE’s sustainability team. CBRE Pacific has also worked with Stockland on their commercial portfolio over the past 4 years to provide Building Energy Efficiency Certificates (BEEC) and NABERS certifications for 15 buildings across 4 states or territories. CBRE carries out NABERS Tenancy ratings in New South Wales and Victoria for Stockland, and collates and performs calculations of Energy Savings Certificates (ESC) with the Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal (IPART) in New South Wales. We have tracked improvements in NABERS results since 2012, seeing the portfolio average increase from 4.12 stars in 2012 to 4.35 stars in 2016. Invesco Real Estate, the global real estate investment manager, collaborated with CBRE to improve the NABERS rating of Exhibition Street Tower, one of Melbourne’s premier office towers, into what is now the first 6 Star NABERS rated retrofitted building in Victoria. The rating represents the highest sustainability ranking in Australia, reserved for market leading energy efficient buildings. Previously holding a NABERS rating of 2.5 Stars, the property has undergone significant capital improvements over the past seven years as part of the project to position it among the top 2% of leading energy efficient buildings in Victoria. The environmental performance of the building has been improved through efficient lighting, excellent air quality, sub-metering and harvesting recycled water. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 22 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY In September 2014, TAIPEI 101 appointed a CBRE sustainability team, led by colleagues in Asia in conjunction with colleagues in the U.S., to act as a LEED consultant to guide them through the process of recertifying the existing LEED v2009 Platinum certification. The property sought recertification to the new LEED O+M v4 standard at the Platinum level. This recertification was completed in mid-2016, becoming the highest scoring LEED v4 project in the world to date and the first to reach the 90-point threshold. TAIPEI 101 – with more than 2 million square feet gross floor area, 101 floors and 126 different tenants – was the first supertall building in the world to attempt and achieve this standard. Americas Energy and sustainability projects and programs are executed routinely on behalf of our U.S. Asset Services clients and Global Workplace Solutions (GWS) clients. Commemorating our tenth year of using the EPA ENERGY STAR platform during 2016, CBRE registered and benchmarked a record breaking 1,975 buildings representing more than 314.5 million square feet. CBRE’s 288 labeled buildings under management represent nearly 3.5% of the 9,253 U.S. office buildings labeled in ENERGY STAR. We have another 513 properties that are either currently in the application process or eligible to apply. Since 2007, CBRE has successfully improved our average ENERGY STAR score, achieving a cumulative increase of 9.5% and a high average score of 79 for 2016. Additionally, over the 10-year term, we’ve successfully increased the number of buildings in our portfolio that are benchmarking by 378% and decreased the average normalized site energy use by 16% or 19,836,450,762 kBtu, the equivalent of reducing 9,791,731 passenger vehicle miles driven in an entire year or sequestering carbon from 3,867 acres of forests in one year. [302-5] CBRE was recognized In April 2017, the U.S. EPA recognized CBRE with its 2017 ENERGY STAR as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence Award for continued leadership in protecting the environment through superior energy efficiency achievements. This Partner of the Year marks the tenth consecutive year that CBRE has been recognized for ENERGY for the 10th STAR performance. consecutive year LEED certification is the most recognized rating system of sustainable construction and management practices worldwide, and CBRE continues to assist our clients in their efforts to gain these certifications. Our LEED for Existing Buildings (EB) consulting team completed 127 certifications totaling more than 16.5 million square feet in 2016. Since the team was formed in 2009, it has certified 637 buildings totaling more than 164 million square feet – more than any other LEED EB consultant in the world. We also continue to assist our clients in achieving LEED Commercial Interiors (CI) and New Construction (NC) certifications. In 2016, we completed 11 new LEED CI/NC certifications totaling 846,000 square feet. Cumulatively, the team has certified 85 LEED CI/NC spaces totaling 6.5 million square feet. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY In 2016, CBRE’s Energy & Sustainability team completed LEED EB certification on 94 Wells Fargo retail banks, the largest number of LEED EB projects certified at one time in the history of the U.S. Green Building Council. This achievement adds over 563,000 certified square feet towards Wells Fargo’s goal of earning LEED certification on 35% of its real estate portfolio by 2020. Since 2011, CBRE has completed a total of 324 LEED certifications for Wells Fargo, including 45 administrative buildings and 279 retail branches. The BREEAM building sustainability assessment has been prevalent in Europe for CBRE launched many years and has certified buildings in over 30 countries. BREEAM In-Use USA BREEAM In-Use in was launched in August 2016. It provides an authoritative, credible reporting measurement of sustainability which can be used to differentiate an asset in a the U.S. for the first competitive market. BREEAM In-Use USA covers major environmental issues that time in 2016 affect buildings throughout their operational life and captures data across nine key sustainability categories: energy, water, materials, pollution, land use, health & wellbeing, waste, transportation and management. In 2016, CBRE became a Licensed BREEAM In-Use USA Assessor organization, with seven assessors on our staff, and can serve as a BREEAM In-Use USA Consultant or Assessor for clients. ACADEMIC COLLABORATION CBRE launched the Real Green Research Challenge in 2012 to encourage and support academic research teams seeking answers to fundamental questions around sustainability activities in the built environment. This unique $1 million grant program was designed to provide funding and unprecedented access to actionable data by connecting academic scholars with CBRE data and industry professionals to collaboratively explore areas of interest unavailable before. A global competition resulted in the following projects. Green Building Adoption Index MAASTRICHT The Green Building Adoption Index (GBAI) was designed to document the growth UNIVERSITY of green building certifications in the 30 largest U.S. office markets. Tracking the growth of both EPA ENERGY STAR and USGBC LEED certifications, this study was the first ever to accurately and comprehensively measure the rise of these environmental recognitions in the commercial real estate market. The analysis provides both national and individual statistics with supporting narrative examinations of each market, allowing comparisons between marketplaces. Our third annual study was published in 2016, and the fourth annual study was published in July 2017. Green Alpha Index EURO INSTITUTE The Green Alpha Index is a comprehensive economic analysis of the value OF REAL ESTATE implications of green building practices. The project has developed a management tool that measures the impact of more than a dozen environmental, MANAGMENT social and governance elements on rental achievement. The tool can identify areas of improvement while comparing property and portfolio performance, and CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 24 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY can be used as a predictive model for new investment opportunities. The Green Alpha Index was presented at a German academic conference in 2016 and has been accepted for publication in an academic journal in 2017. Sustainability Scoring Protocol CLEVELAND STATE & This study was designed to determine which sustainability characteristics tenants CENTRAL MICHIGAN actually seek, and more importantly, which they would pay for. Through a series of focus groups, 18 green characteristics deemed important to occupants were UNIVERSITIES identified. Data from CBRE-managed office properties was analyzed and CBRE tenants were surveyed and interviewed to determine the relative importance of the practices. A scoring system was then developed to promote them. The findings have, to date, resulted in four peer-reviewed papers published in separate academic journals with two more in review, as well as presentations at two academic conferences. Efficiency Modeling on Corporate Campuses STANFORD This study analyzed successful energy management practices at four large UNIVERSITY corporate campuses that are managed by CBRE and compared those practices against EPA-published recommended energy management practices. The researchers conducted field visits and extensive interviews with CBRE and client staff members, and the findings were shared with the management teams of the studied sites and with the EPA. A white paper summarizing these findings will be published in 2017. Tenant Energy Management Performance NEW YORK Studies have indicated that buildings with separately metered tenant spaces are UNIVERSITY more energy efficient. This project aimed to confirm that finding and determine methods to engage occupants to increasingly improve energy efficiency in these spaces. The study produced an unexpected result: the discovery of the nature and likelihood of energy-efficiency actions undertaken by various real estate ownership structures. The results were published in an academic journal in 2016. A second component of this project coordinates with the new EPA ENERGY STAR Tenant Space (formerly Tenant Star) program, designed to provide individual tenant spaces with comparative energy usage scores. This work will continue in 2017. CBRE GLOBAL INVESTORS CBRE Global Investors, a wholly owned subsidiary of CBRE, is one of the world’s largest real estate investment management firms with $86.6 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2016. At CBRE Global Investors, a specific emphasis is placed on environmental sustainability and improving the environmental footprint of each asset under management. We recognize that we can make a tangible impact on improving energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and slowing climate change. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY A 2016 review However, since the adoption of our Global Sustainability Policy in 2013, the produced our new marketplace has begun to also expect companies to measure and report on their performance on a wider range of related social and governance Global Responsible matters. In recognition of this expanded environmental, social and Real Estate Investment governance (ESG) focus and expanded stakeholder interest in our efforts, CBRE Global Investors leadership initiated a review in 2016 of the 2013 Management Policy Policy. The result is a new Global Responsible Real Estate Investment Management Policy that has been adopted. We also created the Global Responsible Investment Management Committee (RIMCo), comprised of senior leadership and other selected company professionals, which is accountable for implementing, governing and further developing ESG initiatives. This committee will be supported by regional and business unit RIMCos with representatives from investment teams who directly manage ESG activities. Specific acquisition and management tactics in support of the Policy are being developed and will be introduced in 2017. We will continue to require investment teams to evaluate opportunities for green improvements for each asset prior to acquisition and to track efficiency during the hold period with clear guidelines that we implement or will implement across our global investment programs at all stages – starting with the acquisition due diligence process and continuing throughout our asset management activities. We routinely engage third-party consultants to evaluate the physical and environmental characteristics of potential investments to identify opportunities for improvements that would reduce a property’s environmental impact. Our investment teams continue to enhance engagement efforts at our properties resulting in increased tenant satisfaction and occupancy. Our governance structure and committees, including the newly established RIMCos, ensure a disciplined investment process and establishment of appropriate risk mitigation measures. We will continue to distribute our Global Responsible Real Estate Investment Management Policy to stakeholders and aim to include provisions in thirdparty contracts for the implementation and reporting of sustainability factors. Property management agreements include sustainability clauses, and property managers are being compared on various green key performance indicators. Investment teams are expected to monitor and measure ESG performance. CBRE Global Investors has commitments to a number of organizations to help promote acceptance and implementation of sustainable practices, including the Principles for Responsible Investment, Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, Sustainable Building Alliance, Green Rating Alliance, International Sustainability Alliance, Sustainable Investment in Real Estate, Dutch Green Building Council (including the BREEAM-in-Use Advisory Council), Association of Dutch Investors in Real Estate Sustainability Taskforce and ICSC European Sustainability Taskforce. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 26 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS CERTIFICATION BREEAM 60 ENERGY STAR 42 LEED 40 DGNB 3 HQE 2 GRESB Results Over the past few years we have advanced our green initiative through increased participation in the annual Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) Survey. In 2016, the company once again achieved excellent results. The survey, which assesses the sustainability performance of real estate investment CBRE Global Investors programs, analyzed 15 of our directly managed funds and separate accounts was awarded a GRESB worldwide. With an overall score that increased by three points from the previous year, CBRE Global Investors was awarded a Green Star for the overall portfolio for Green Star for its the first time. This signifies best practices for in-place sustainability policies as well portfolio in 2016 as active implementation of initiatives to support those policies. Additionally, the following 10 programs were awarded the Green Star, with an average score of 72: • Dutch Office Fund • Retail Property Fund Iberica • Dutch Retail Fund • Netherlands-based separate account • Dutch Residential Fund • U.S.-based separate account investing in Europe • European Shopping Center Fund • Strategic Partners U.S. Value 6 Fund • European Industrial Fund • Pan European Core Fund Other notable results for specific programs include: • The Dutch Office Fund, Retail Property Fund Iberica and Dutch Retail Fund earned the top three scores among all INREV members and were awarded Green Stars for the fourth consecutive year. • With the Dutch Office Fund’s consistent approach to sustainability, it once again ranked number 1 in the Netherlands/Office sector category. • The Europe-based separate account, which increased its score by 11 points, ranked number 1 in the Diversified (by country and property type)/Non-listed category and number 8 in Diversified (by property type)/Non-listed Europe category. • The Pan European Core Fund increased its score by six points. • Strategic Partners U.S. Value 6 was awarded a Green Star for the second year in a row. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY CBRE Clarion Securities CBRE Clarion Securities, the listed equity management arm of CBRE Global Investors, is an industry-leading global investment management firm specializing in the management of real assets, including real estate, master limited partnerships (MLPs) and infrastructure securities. The firm managed approximately $17 billion as of December 31, 2016. More than 50% of In 2016, CBRE Clarion targeted the 20 largest companies (by market capitalization) CBRE Clarion’s in both the MSCI US REIT Index and the FTSE/EPRA NAREIT Developed Index that did not participate in the 2015 GRESB survey. Since the two indices overlap, this publicly traded yielded a list of 30 companies that were prioritized. Contacts were made with all 30 entities participated of these companies to encourage participation. Once the 2016 survey was complete, we were able to observe that three of these companies participated that in the GRESB survey had not previously. As of the end of 2016, there were 201 publicly traded entities participating in the GRESB survey, comprising approximately 51% of the market capitalization of CBRE Clarion’s investment index. TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY Trammell Crow Company (TCC), a wholly owned subsidiary of CBRE, is one of the leading developers and investors in commercial real estate. The company has developed or acquired more than 2,600 buildings valued at over $60 billion, comprising more than 565 million square feet. TCC is dedicated to building value for its clients with teams of professionals located in 16 major cities throughout the United States. With $6.6 billion of development in process as of December 31, 2016, TCC has a significant opportunity to impact communities and stakeholders. TCC has long recognized that prudent environmental stewardship is a fundamental social and ethical corporate responsibility. As a leader in commercial real estate development, TCC uniquely understands the impact of the built environment on our communities. Knowledge leadership is central to the TCC brand and business model. We pursue environmentally responsible building solutions because they generate long-term economic benefits for our financial partners and meet the long-term objectives of our tenants, employees and the communities in which we live. TCC is committed to a) the continued expansion of its expertise in environmental sustainability, b) making sustainability an important part of our business, and c) assuring that our clients and financial partners have access to TCC’s best practices in sustainable planning, design and construction for each project. Our goal is to build value with comprehensive, integrated building solutions that are attentive to the environment, the economic and physical health of the communities and occupants, and the needs of the investors. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 28 CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY TCC is a member of the U.S. Green Building Council and currently has 34 LEED APs and more than 40 million square feet of office, industrial, retail, civic and multifamily projects in the pipeline, under construction or completed that are sustainable or in various stages of obtaining LEED certification. Sustainability Task Force In 2016, Trammell Crow Company recognized the need to re-examine and TCC formed a task re-affirm our commitment to sustainability and initiated a Sustainability Task force in 2016 to Force. This team has been tasked with advancing TCC’s thought leadership position on matters related to the built environment. In collaboration with continue advancing members of the CBRE Corporate Responsibility team, the task force represents its leadership role in employees of TCC with diversity in geographic location, product type expertise and experience level. This committed group of individuals is dedicated to sustainability ensuring TCC remains a market leader in sustainability, and to supporting TCC in achieving its sustainability goals. Shared Advantage Recognizing that our projects will be in use for decades and have long-lasting and broad impacts beyond their physical footprint, we have redefined sustainability to better address these impacts. Considering more than just environmental influences, we have expanded our definition of sustainability to include economic, wellness, social, transportation and governance. This comprehensive approach to sustainability better aligns our projects with the needs and interests of our stakeholders, including community members, occupants, investors and clients. By focusing on each of these six areas of sustainability, we can assure that the TCC commitment to developing sustainable communities is met. THE BRICKYARD The Brickyard Anticipating and addressing community needs, identifying and mitigating project demonstrates environmental impacts, and creating positive economic returns to our investors and partners, is TCC’s way of creating Shared Advantage. To better understand Shared Advantage how the purposeful application of these principles enable a successful project, we in action invite you to review a case study of the Compton Brickyard project. Measurement TCC welcomes opportunities for third party evaluation, and in 2017, we voluntarily completed the recently created Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) Developer Assessment. We will use the results of the assessment to benchmark our performance and make additional refinements to our processes and practices. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 PEOPLE & CULTURE CONNEC TIONS CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE KEY LINKS RISE Values Forbes Magazine Ranking Our Employee Advantage CBRE U.S. Careers TCC Diversity PEOPLE & CULTURE RISE VALUES AT WORK CBRE is ranked as one Guided by our RISE values, CBRE is focused on talent attraction, professional of Forbes Magazine’s development, diversity and inclusion practices – and a healthy culture where all employees feel engaged and excited to come to work for us every day. We are proud to “Best Employers” have been ranked No. 15 on Forbes America’s Best Employers List in 2016. In 2016, our workforce grew to more than 75,000 employees worldwide. The following provides a demographic profile of CBRE’s global workforce, excluding affiliate offices. [102-8, 405-1] GENDER Female Male 33.63% 66.24% AGE Under 30 30-50 Over 50 20.10% 53.16% 26.63% EMLOYMENT TYPE & GENDER Female Male Full Time 31.05% 65.03% Part Time 2.58% 1.21% EMLOYMENT CONTRACT & GENDER Female Male Regular 32.35% 64.78% Temporary 1.28% 1.46% EMLOYMENT CONTRACT & REGION Americas EMEA APAC Regular 44.43% 27.63% 25.19% Temporary 0.31% 1.90% 0.55% CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION [103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Diversity and inclusion is material to CBRE because people are at the center of our strategy. We are at our best when people with different backgrounds and experiences come together to produce great results for our clients. The mission of our diversity and inclusion initiative is to provide a work environment that attracts, develops and celebrates the professional success of every individual. Diversity and inclusion is a material topic within our own operations. CBRE strives for a work environment that reflects the clients we serve, provides everyone with the opportunity to succeed, values the differences of each individual and recognizes their contributions to our firm’s success. We have great examples of gender, ethnic and other categories of diversity in our leadership and employee groups. We also recognize that our industry is lagging behind world-class role models in key areas of diversity, and this is an opportunity for continued improvement. In 2017, we hired a new VP, Diversity and Inclusion, to provide vision, leadership and strategic planning for our diversity and inclusion platform. GOC Sponsorship Program In 2016, the CBRE Board of Directors endorsed a new key performance indicator for our executive leadership team. Beginning in 2017, each member of CBRE’s Global Operating Committee (GOC) is sponsoring/championing at least one diverse leader, identified through the company’s annual talent assessment process, who work outside the GOC member’s span of control. This program provides advocates for diverse talent within the company and visibly demonstrates our senior leadership’s commitment to diversity. The GOC members and their diverse leaders connect regularly to discuss key projects, development plans and more. Women on Internal Boards The 29 countries in our EMEA region have seen very different rates of progress in CBRE is actively gender diversity. The EMEA Executive Committee recognized this challenge and developing initiatives developed a regional talent development initiative to add more women to EMEA Country and Service Line Boards. to add women to governing boards For countries where females represented less than 30% of Board members, a minimum of one fee-earning woman was invited to join that Board for 12 months, starting in January 2017, to contribute to leadership debate and gain a broader understanding of the business. Women were selected for the program based on their performance and potential, and not just how long they’ve worked for the company. The opportunity was designed for women with a bright future at CBRE whose career progress will be accelerated by this experience. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 32 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE National Equality Standard As part of our commitment to diversity and inclusion at CBRE in the United Kingdom, we have invested in the National Equality Standard and are the first real estate company to make the commitment. The National Equality Standard (NES) is sponsored by Ernst & Young (EY) in partnership with 18 other U.K. and global companies. In 2016, the NES Board and EY used a robust organizational assessment to review our diversity and inclusion policies and practices. We will use the outputs of this assessment to develop a meaningful action plan to create an even more diverse and inclusive culture. Diversity Executive Briefing Senior leaders are kept abreast of emerging diversity and inclusion opportunities through the Diversity Executive Briefing, a message circulated to executives across the globe. This communication is distributed to inform and influence leadership across the entire organization to think and act differently in order to achieve world-class diversity outcomes. In 2016, readership of these briefings surpassed all previous analytics, demonstrating that our global leaders are taking time to absorb, understand and share diversity and inclusion messages. IMPACT! Program To advance our commitment to improving gender balance at more senior levels, CBRE developed a two-year executive development program for high-performing women in senior and executive leadership positions at CBRE worldwide. Some of the leaders who participated in the 2016 cohort of the program received promotions, external awards and recognition. A second IMPACT! program has begun in 2017 with 20 participants. Diversity Scholars Program Three longtime members of the CBRE Group Board of Directors – Richard (Dick) CBRE established a Blum, Mickey Kantor and Gary Wilson – retired in 2016. To mark their many years significant diversity of service, CBRE established a scholarship grant and summer internship program for a student of racial or ethnic diversity in each former Director’s name scholarship grant and at their alma maters: University of California, Berkeley (Blum); Vanderbilt University internship program (Kantor); and Duke University (Wilson). The scholarship provides a two-month, paid summer internship designed to advance the student’s readiness for a career in 2016 in commercial real estate by empowering learning through meaningful work experiences, enhancing professional presence through exposure to senior executives and other leaders, and creating connections and accelerating industry knowledge through collaboration with CBRE colleagues. Upon successful completion of the internship, the student will also receive a $10,000 stipend for the following academic year. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE Diversity Intern Program In 2016, CBRE welcomed its third class of interns through the national Diversity Internship program. The program included 11 interns in eight offices across the United States who were identified through our partnerships with three external diversity organizations. Commercial Real Estate Women (CREW) Network is focused on the advancement of women in commercial real estate, the Posse Foundation is committed to recruiting and training outstanding students from urban backgrounds, and Vadis − our newest alliance − is dedicated to providing services to people with disabilities. The interns connected via a weekly call where they learned from guest speakers, including top leaders in our company. Transgender Transition Guidelines CBRE recognizes that transitioning individuals have the right to openly be who they are, meaning that while maintaining professional expectations, they may express their gender identity, characteristics or expression without fear of consequences. In July 2016, CBRE issued Transgender Transition Guidelines to support these individuals in making their transition known at work. Employee Network Groups Employee network A significant way that we advance workplace diversity is through our employee groups have been an network groups, which have been an important part of our success for more than 15 years. Our employee network groups offer career and professional important part of development opportunities, connections and networking possibilities with CBRE culture for the colleagues across all business lines and regions and community involvement opportunities. past 15 years AFRICAN-AMERICAN NETWORK GROUP (AANG) The African-American Network Group’s vision is to advance diversity and inclusion as a core value benefitting CBRE, our clients and our communities, with a particular focus on recruiting, retaining and developing our black professionals. In 2016, AANG completed its initial evaluation of the AANG Broker Recruitment & Retention Initiative that was established in 2015 to recruit and develop promising sales professionals, partnering them with senior brokerage professionals. As a result, the program will incorporate improvements in 2017. The network held their 12th annual conference in early 2017, embracing the theme of “Creating a Culture of Excellence – Empowerment, Inclusion & Visibility.” Additionally, AANG chapters organized a number of charitable initiatives. ASIA-PACIFIC NETWORK (APN) In 2016, APN, CBRE’s newest employee network group established its governance structure. The Asia Pacific Network focuses on attracting, developing and retaining CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 34 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE Asian Pacific American talent. APN develops training programs as well as mentoring opportunities focused on building skill sets, including preparing members for production roles and leadership opportunities. The group helps our communities through volunteerism and charitable contributions and works to build external connections to Asian professional organizations. In 2017, the network plans to seek opportunities to use the unique language, cultural competency and professional skills of its members to support the business. CBRE MILITARY Approximately 1,800 of our employees have current and prior military service, which provides them with specialized skills and experiences much different from those of civilian workers. CBRE Military works to set these employees up for success in our corporate environment while speaking to their military background. Members of CBRE Military can connect to branch leaders or local leaders within the network based on their military background or interests. In addition to offering a community of like-minded individuals, CBRE Military advises CBRE on program, partnership and award opportunities to help advance our diversity and inclusion practices. HISPANIC AND LATIN BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUP (HLBRG) The Hispanic and Latin Business Resource Group supports Hispanic and Latin professionals globally by providing opportunities for members to develop their business and career. The HLBRG’s collaborative and entrepreneurial mindset fosters growth for individual members, for the HLBRG and for CBRE as a whole. HLBRG also seeks opportunities to engage in the Hispanic and Latin communities in both business and philanthropic endeavors. The group held its second annual conference in 2016, where 150 members came together to learn and celebrate what it means to be Hispanic. The network more than doubled its membership in 2016 as a result of strong growth in membership in Central and South American, in addition to the U.S. LGBT & ALLIES The LGBT & Allies network group provides an open-minded support system for Our LGBT & Allies conducting business while addressing the personal requirements of our LGBT group helped CBRE community. The group acts as an advocate for shaping CBRE practices and programs to ensure a business community where merit supersedes sexual achieve a perfect score orientation and gender. The group is currently active in our U.S., Mexico and in a major survey Australia markets. For the fourth consecutive year, the LGBT & Allies network group helped CBRE achieve a perfect score from the Human Rights Campaign Workplace Equality Survey Corporate Equality Index. Each year, members of LGBT & Allies travel to join their colleagues and peers and participate in the Out & Equal Workplace Summit. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE RISING PROFESSIONALS ORGANIZATION (RPO) The Rising Professionals Organization is dedicated to helping CBRE young professionals form business relationships, build leadership skills and participate in community and philanthropy events, all while helping develop an understanding of CBRE’s platform, resources and training opportunities. Rising Professionals are those who desire to reach their highest potential and become a leader within our industry. In 2016, RPO held monthly calls to educate, collaborate and share best practices on a variety of topics. In 2017, RPO plans to expand to CBRE offices globally. WOMEN’S NETWORK The Women’s Network exists to promote the success of women. Growth, CBRE’s Women’s Connection and Mentorship – the three guiding pillars of the Women’s Network – Network earned a provide a solid foundation to enhance careers and promote an environment that is collaborative and keenly focused on success. The Women’s Network has more top 10 ranking for than 3,000 members across CBRE’s three global regions, who gain vital improving gender knowledge, professional connections and business-related skills through our many offerings that help them succeed in their careers. In 2016, the Women’s Network diversity in a large earned a Top 10 ranking in the Global Diversity List, supported by The Daily organization Telegraph in London, for the second year in a row. “Claim Your Seat” took on new meaning during the 2016 Women’s Networking Forum, serving as the conference theme and recognizing the many important roles women have inside and outside the office. The annual event drew nearly 400 women from throughout the company to hear prominent keynote speakers and participate in professional development workshops, networking opportunities and a major community service project. TALENT Onboarding A more efficient In 2016, we began the development of a global onboarding program that will be global onboarding rolled out in the second half of 2017. The program will provide consistency in all new employees’ onboarding experience from the time the new employee signs program was rolled their offer letter through the first 90 days of employment. Enhancements being out in 2016 implemented include a global onboarding portal, global workspace provisioning website, global network credentialing process and an expedited VIP hiring process. In 2016, the Americas region completed the implementation of a revised onboarding process in North America designed to create an employee-centric onboarding experience for the new employee. The process leveraged a technology solution to ensure success with our highly geographically distributed workforce. Our new employee survey has already confirmed that new employees demonstrate increased readiness as a result of the revised process. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 36 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE Our Employee Advantage Our employee value proposition, called Our Employee Advantage, is that “every day you are empowered and expected to be better.” In 2016, employees were invited to create a video to share what it feels like to work at CBRE. Hundreds of videos were submitted from employees in 18 countries, and as a result, one global and three regional compilation videos were developed to highlight the CBRE employee experience. Our employee advantage principles are being incorporated into key HR practices such as hiring and onboarding. Employee Engagement In 2017, we are partnering with an external vendor to launch a worldwide employee engagement survey covering all 75,000 employees. The survey will be conducted in Q2 2017 and results will be provided to senior leadership in Q3 2017. Action planning will also begin in Q3 and continue into 2018. We plan to conduct another full survey in 2018 to measure progress year-over-year. Performance Management Performance management is viewed as a continuous activity at CBRE. We offer a number of career development and performance management training sessions, allowing employees to learn more about their role in the process and how it benefits them in their career growth. In 2016, 79% of all employees completed their goals and reviewed them with their leaders. [404-3] Additional Talent Management Enhancements In 2016, we implemented enhanced talent review and succession planning tools, and we plan for continuous improvements to be made to them in 2017. We are using a variety of 360 feedback tools to provide development and coaching opportunities. In 2017, we plan to launch our own Leadership 360 tool to use in leadership development and coaching. LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT The Global Talent, Learning and Diversity team, through its Learning and Development teams, focuses on empowering our employees to develop themselves and their teams, providing tools to drive career development and growth. Our professionals are connected across geographies, business lines and shared services leveraging best practices, tools and content. We engage creative and innovative methods to expand beyond traditional classroom offerings and online education, using world-class learning processes and platforms. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE At the core of our learning strategy is the view that talent development happens CBRE empowers through three key activities: employees through  70% ON-THE-JOB work/doing the job at hand a proven 70-20-10  20% COACHING through direct feedback from a boss, peer or mentor learning approach  10% FORMAL TRAINING to improve a skill or increase expertise This 70-20-10 approach includes webinars, classroom training, self-paced e-learning, coaching, mentoring and on-the-job projects. myLearning Our global Learning Management System (LMS) – called myLearning – is a world-class, cloud-based learning solution available to all employees globally. myLearning is where employees can seek and find training materials to enhance and develop their skills, connecting them to assigned and self-selected training content, allowing interaction with other learners across the company and providing better management tracking of employee learning. myLearning technology enables us to serve employees in more than 60 countries in nearly 30 languages. The tool also allows managers to assign specific learning programs and ensure that our employees with regulatory-required training have completed courses in a timely manner. Additionally, clients often have specific training requirements of our employees who work on their sites, and myLearning allows us to manage their entire learning profile and meet our clients’ needs. Over 1,000 instructor-led, eLearning and web-based courses are available through myLearning, and the list is growing. CBRE’s myLearning Recently, the platform achieved a utilization rate of 91% of Americas professionals platform has using myLearning to access training. This is a reflection of the easy-to-use platform and wide range of course offerings that are available to users anytime, anywhere achieved a 90%+ and from any device. In 2016, a total of 370,000 hours of online training were utilization rate in delivered to employees globally via myLearning and RedVector, an online platform for safety and facilities management training. the Americas As the myLearning platform continues to evolve, we have begun to align training opportunities with four pillars of learning and development: Onboarding, Professional Competencies, Business Acumen and Leadership. These pillars consist of fundamental principles for ongoing professional and personal development. This framework ensures the delivery of valuable content that is relevant, timely and applicable to CBRE professionals who are empowered to choose their own career path. The pillars offer additional guidance in selecting learning opportunities that reach beyond job-specific training and help employees realize their professional goals and aspirations. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 38 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE Learning Programs CBRE continues to invest in learning and expanding its distance learning initiatives, allowing our geographically diverse workforce in all regions to access a vast majority of our programs. In 2016, CBRE employees had access to courses in formats that included virtual asynchronous and synchronous e-learning, in-person classroom-based courses and conference format sessions. These courses covered a wide range of developmental and business disciplines including leadership/ management development, employee professional development, sales management, property management, and real estate finance and economics. Currently, 58% of all training programs are offered via distance learning (eLearning and webinars). One example, our Finishing First Employee Development Program, teaches our CBRE strongly sales professionals a winning process to move from vendor to strategic partner. The supports professional program transforms our market-facing professionals to become strategic partners to our clients by helping the clients solve business challenges through real estate development with a solutions based on that client’s unique needs. The tools and resources that are part focus on diversity of the program are standard worldwide and embody the philosophy of how to pursue and win business by aligning to each client’s uniqueness. This program ensures our salespeople share a best-practice, winning process to drive exceptional client outcomes. In 2016, 2,600 market-facing professionals in North and Latin America completed the program. In 2016, our Americas Corporate Learning & Development team delivered 12 programs to 1,100 attendees, 33% of whom were diverse. Our Americas CBRE University continued to advance the skills and capabilities of high-potential, market-facing professionals through customized training programs delivered by our leaders and subject matter experts that target brokerage, management/ leadership and shared services employees. EMPOWER is an intensive mentoring, leadership and career enhancement program designed for fifty of CBRE’s emerging leaders in the U.S. In 2016, EMPOWER was refreshed with an all-new CBRE University session and a multi-dimensional exploration of leadership. For the selected mentees, EMPOWER combines one-on-one mentoring, robust leadership courses from Harvard ManageMentor, peer collaboration and networking, and a small group leadership project sponsored by an executive advisor – all resulting in powerful leadership lessons, professional growth, career enhancement and organizational impact. For the selected mentors, EMPOWER represents an integral way to help an emerging leader achieve his/her desired outcomes through an intensive mentor-mentee partnership. Mentors report that they benefit from the experience by developing their leadership and mentoring skills as well as learning from their mentees. CBRE’s EMEA Academy programs are designed to advance the careers of our professionals from entry level through director level. Each new graduate is CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE paired with a mentor who provides the feedback and guidance required to successfully navigate both the technical and business skills development needed to advance in the organization. In 2016, the EMEA Academy became available to employees through myLearning. The EMEA Swap and Share program is now in its fourth year, with more than 200 swaps in 21 countries completed in 2016. Half of those swaps were females. The program focuses on strengthening strategic relationships within and across service lines and geographies, learning about best practices from other countries and improving cultural awareness. Each swap is typically one week in length, with follow-up interactions scheduled for the months following the swap. In 2016, our EMEA team delivered three executive education programs, including the EMEA General Management Program at ESADE Business School and Strategy Program at Ashridge Executive Education (both of which were aimed at senior leaders), as well as the new EMEA & U.K. Senior Leadership Program. Our award-winning The award-winning CBRE U.K. Apprenticeship Scheme was launched in U.K. apprenticeship September 2013 and has continued to grow each year. We now have 29 apprentices across the business. Now in its fourth year, CBRE’s Apprenticeship scheme continues Programme is helping to bring fresh new talent into the commercial real estate to grow market. The scheme offers young people an accredited route to becoming a fully qualified Chartered Surveyor. In APAC, we have adopted a regional focus with our programs to drive stronger management skills and support the capabilities and competencies of middle-level managers. Our aim is to help these managers perform more efficiently and effectively within their current roles and prepare them for more senior management roles. We have designed a number of programs, including Foundations of Management, Middle Manager Program and Manager Essentials, that are customized with country-specific nuances. These programs train managers on how to be collaborative, inclusive and effective leaders. The Pacific Leadership Forum, sponsored by the APAC CEO, provides senior-level leaders representing all business lines with a deeper understanding of CBRE corporate strategy and key clients. Attendees experience an intense three-day agenda focused on advancing leadership capabilities using practical tactics. Participants gain insight into how successful senior executives operate by hearing from Pacific business leaders who share their own strategies and best practices. More than 300 attendees have participated in the Forum during the past 15 years, with over 70% of these leaders remaining with the business. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 40 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE EMPLOYMENT Total Rewards We recognize and appreciate that employee total rewards are an important part of the employment relationship. CBRE provides competitive total rewards in all the markets in which we compete for talent, including fixed and variable pay, and comprehensive benefits that complement country-specific, legislatively prescribed programs. Examples of career rewards can be found on our U.S. Careers website. Annually, we review market competitiveness of all our total rewards programs and adjust our programs accordingly. Additionally, we actively balance the cost of these programs through manager and employee education, promotion of wellness activities and a “pay for performance” culture, as well as through continuous process improvement. CBRE focuses on providing equitable opportunities to all our employees. Differentiation in compensation is driven relative to individual performance. However, our benefit programs are, where possible, consistently offered within locations to ensure that employees have the same access to programs as other employees within their location/position. For individuals not subject to external pay reviews and/or benefit requirements, such as union contracts, CBRE undertakes an annual “pay for performance” review. Employees are assessed based on their performance against established goals and rewarded accordingly. CBRE remains committed to providing eligible employees with meaningful, compliant and affordable benefits. We aim to support physical health, financial wealth and emotional resiliency with a variety of programs for employees at any stage in their career. Employee Transitions Treating our people Treating our people with dignity and respect is a priority. When practical, we with respect and provide impacted employees advanced notice of staff reductions and significant operational changes in excess of regulatory requirements. We complied with the dignity is a priority notice requirements of relevant labor and employment laws and collective bargaining agreements, as applicable. In instances where we could not provide advanced notice, employees received pay in lieu of notice, consistent with our severance plan. CBRE provides outplacement assistance as part of the company’s transition assistance package to employees who are affected by a reduction in force, including separation pay, a health care stipend and access to outplacement services. Our severance plan offers benefits to qualified fulland part-time employees. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 CONTENTS P EO PL E & C U LT U RE Total employee turnover for the past three years is as follows. [401-1] 2014 2015 2016 17.71% 19.94% 20.93% Anti-Discrimination CBRE is vigilant in complying with all national regulations in the countries where we operate. We have established policies and practices that support the company’s position on prohibiting discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, childbirth (or related medical condition), age, citizenship, marital status, disability, veteran or military status, political belief or any other basis protected by applicable law. Collective Bargaining As of December 31, 2016, approximately 1,800 (2.4%) of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements, most of whom work in properties we manage in California, Illinois, New Jersey and New York. [102-41] TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY Trammell Crow Company’s Diversity & Inclusion Initiative aims to improving the breadth of perspectives brought to bear on the firm’s business, broadening the makeup of our personnel and leadership, and instituting long-term programs to attract and retain qualified diverse professionals. In 2016, TCC released a video describing the initiative and demonstrating how a diverse workforce leads to success. TCC has established a Women’s Network to provide a community and professional development for women at TCC, as well as recruit and empower women at the company. TCC has also developed an Ambassador Program to encourage participation for TCC team members within Affinity Groups throughout the real estate industry. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 42 HEALTH & SAFETY CONNEC TIONS CONTENTS H EALTH & SAFET Y KEY LINKS Supplier Code of Conduct RoSPA Awards British Safety Council Awards HEALTH & SAFETY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY is material to CBRE because we believe there is nothing more important than the health and safety of our employees, contractors and those with whom we work. Our clients are increasingly demanding world-class safety performance as a pre-condition to compete for and retain their business. This topic is material within our own operations, as well as for our suppliers, from whom we purchase products and services; and with our clients, whose properties we manage every day. Although we do not directly manage health and safety for our suppliers and therefore cannot report on it, we work to influence this stakeholder CBRE works to group through our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes details of our influence vendors expectations for supplier health and safety performance. And while we do not have through our Supplier access to health and safety data for our clients, we work directly with clients in our Asset Services and Global Workplace Solutions (GWS) business lines to help them Code of Conduct get their spaces certified under various health, safety and environmental management systems. [103-1] MANAGEMENT [103-2] We believe that safety is the entry point to building trust with our employees, contractors, clients, visitors and other stakeholders, and we work diligently to maintain a strong culture of safety to ensure a safe work environment. CBRE reviews its policies and procedures annually to ensure they remain up-to-date and reflect the latest thinking on our journey to being a world-class organization. We refreshed our global Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy Statement in 2015. This Policy states our commitment to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees and others who are affected by our activities; ensuring adequate resources are available to effectively manage HSE; meeting or exceeding regulations, legal requirements and company standards; measuring and communicating our HSE performance; and implementing and maintaining policies, procedures and systems dedicated to continuous improvement. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 44 CONTENTS H EALTH & SAFET Y As a part of our commitment, we have an HSE Steering Committee which is chaired by our VP of HSE. The committee is comprised of senior leaders across business lines and geographies and provides executive sponsorship, oversight and support for the CBRE HSE function, including, but not limited to, strategy, policy, systems, monitoring and corporate governance for HSE responsibilities. Our HSE professionals comply with many requirements from our clients as a part of the statement of work contained in our contracts, as well as our own rigorous standards. To ensure these professionals have the information they need to do their job well, a monthly HSE Network call delivers timely and educational information that includes procedure updates, changes in HSE policy, performance measurement results, HSE-related news and alerts, and lessons learned. The group also produces a monthly newsletter called HSE Connect, which documents and distributes timely information on topical issues relevant to the global workplace and supporting employees in performing their jobs to the highest industry standard. CBRE provides extensive health and safety training for colleagues in our technical workforce, including online and in-person training sessions. In 2016, our corporate HSE team developed, reviewed and recorded 11 safety training sessions that were made available to technical employees online. CBRE’s HSE subject matter experts were used to determine what material was most relevant to our employees. Also in 2016, our corporate HSE team developed a global HSE playbook consisting of 40 HSE guidance modules for new account transitions. CBRE introduced an In order to facilitate a consistent global approach to incident management, we are enterprise software in the process of implementing an enterprise HSE software solution that we call myHSE. This software was introduced in the U.S., Canada, Asia and Pacific solution for incident regions in 2016 and will be rolled out in Latin America in 2017. The software will management be fully implemented in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region on January 1, 2018. The software includes incident and claims management, audits management, chemical and safety data sheet management, risk assessment management, activity management and performance management. Certifications We continue to increase the percentage of the organization that operates in verified compliance with internationally recognized health and safety management systems. Our Global Workplace Solutions (GWS) and Asset Services business lines in multiple regions around the world are certified to standards such as the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, ISO 9001 Quality Management System, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System and PAS 99 Integrated Management System. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 CONTENTS H EALTH & SAFET Y CERTIFICATIONS ISO 14001 ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 PAS 99 GWS EMEA     GWS Pacific    GWS Singapore    Asset Services India    Asset Services Beijing, China   Asset Services U.K.  Additionally, we work with our clients to get their properties certified to the standards that are meaningful to them. For example, our Asset Services business line in EMEA has 75 client properties that are certified, including 55 properties certified to ISO 14001, 10 certified to OHSAS 18001, 9 certified to PAS 99 and 1 certified to the ISO 50001 Energy Management System. PERFORMANCE [103-2, 103-3, 403-2] Statistics INJURY RATES In 2015, we implemented a more thorough and accurate injury measurement process globally. The first year of complete data we are able to report is 2016. For CBRE globally in 2016, our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) was 0.60 and our Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) was 0.30. We have established a 10% reduction target for 2017 for both TRIR and LTIR, which equate to 0.54 and 0.27, respectively. Injury rates for our GWS and Asset Services business lines across our regions are detailed below. Our injury measurement process was not established in our Asset Services business line in Asia (9% of total hours) in 2016 but we expect to have this data for 2017. REGION TRIR LTIR Asset Services Americas 1.04 0.50 ASSET SERVICES Asset Services EMEA 0.00 0.00 Asset Services Pacific 0.60 0.00 TOTAL: 0.73 0.33 REGION TRIR LTIR GWS Americas 1.14 0.40 GLOBAL WORKPLACE GWS EMEA 0.59 0.55 SOLUTIONS GWS Asia 0.13 0.08 GWS Pacific 0.35 0.35 TOTAL: 0.75 0.37 NOTES: TRIR = # of OSHA recordable cases multiplied by 200,000 hours (# of hours worked by 100 employees in a year)/actual hours worked LTIR = # of lost time injuries multiplied by 200,000 hours/actual hours worked CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 46 CONTENTS H EALTH & SAFET Y FATALITIES We did not have any work-related employee fatalities from 2013-2015. Regrettably, in 2016 a CBRE employee was involved in a fatal motor vehicle collision. Awards In the United Kingdom, CBRE was again recognized by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) for occupational health and safety performance. We received a total of 32 RoSPA Awards in 2016, including the President’s Award for CBRE Asset Services, 4 Gold Medal Awards, 26 Gold Awards and 1 Silver Award. The U.K. team also received two British Safety Council International Safety Awards in 2016. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 COMMUNITIES & GIVING CONNEC TIONS CONTENTS C OM MUNI T IES & G IV IN G KEY LINKS Plan International (U.K.) Shelter (U.K.) CBRE Cares (U.S.) Charity Bike Ride (EMEA) Walk for a Wish (APAC) COMMUNITIES & G IVING CBRE IS COMMITTED to supporting and adding value to the communities where our employees live and work around the world, as well as in communities where the need is greatest. Each of our three regions – Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC) – operates independent charitable initiatives, leading their own regional programs. One element remains the same around the world: our employees’ charitable spirit and enthusiasm. This adjacent chart illustrates our three primary sources of charitable giving. EMEA EMEA’s Building a Our EMEA charity program, Building a Better Future, engages each country in Better Future commits the region, committing a contribution of at least 0.5% of each country’s annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and adjustments (EBITDA) to at least 0.5% of EBITA charitable causes. to charitable causes  The EBITDA contribution is divided into the following three components:  50% is donated to local charity causes decided by each country.  40% goes toward an EMEA-wide partnership program.  10% is added to our EMEA Disaster Relief Funds to ensure we are able to respond quickly to major humanitarian or environmental crises. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 CONTENTS C OM MUNI T IES & G IV IN G Plan International In 2014, CBRE’s EMEA business entered into a partnership with international children’s charity, Plan International. Our first project together focused on providing an education to girls in Sierra Leone. Our teams across EMEA raised over €1.2 million ($1.26 million) in corporate and employee donations for this partnership from 2014-2016. CBRE’s funds unlocked a further U.K. government grant of €9 million ($9.48 million), which significantly multiplied the strength of the project. As a result, CBRE and Plan International were able to help give an education to 21,060 of the poorest girls in Sierra Leone and improved the lives of an additional135,000 children before, during and after Sierra Leone’s Ebola crisis. Our Plan International The partnership involves CBRE colleagues in more than 100 offices and 30 countries project involves more throughout the region participating in fundraising and other activities. This includes the EMEA annual charity bike ride, during which more than 100 employees and than 100 offices in clients cycled 650 km from France to Italy in June 2016, raising over €115,000 30 countries ($120,000). Additionally, CBRE provides pro bono support across Plan International’s global real estate portfolio, adding further tangible value to the organization. Although we have now completed our fundraising for Sierra Leone, CBRE EMEA will continue to work with 485 of these girls to help them become qualified teachers. An impact report detailing what we have achieved in Sierra Leone is available here. We are honored that this partnership has won multiple awards, including:  Third Sector Business Charity Awards 2016: Project of the Year  Managing Partners’ Forum (MPF) Management Excellence Awards: Best Community Engagement, 2017 Following the success of this project, CBRE will work with Plan International for two more years and bring the charity’s groundbreaking Safer Cities project to Nairobi, Kenya. Safer Cities aims to make cities safer for girls and women, and transform them into places of inclusion, tolerance and opportunity for everyone. Learn more by watching this video. Shelter In February 2015, national housing and homelessness charity Shelter was selected as CBRE’s first national U.K. charity partner, with a goal to raise £500,000 ($615,000) in two years. In August 2016, we achieved our goal in just 18 months, six months ahead of expectations. We have now extended the partnership for a third year with a new target to reach of £1,000,000 ($1.23 million) by 2018. This target will consist of £750,000 ($923,000) from employee fundraising and corporate donations, in addition to £250,000 ($308,000) of pro bono work and savings on behalf of the charity. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 50 CONTENTS C OM MUNI T IES & G IV IN G The success of the partnership has been the result of high levels of employee Over half of all U.K engagement. Over half of all U.K. CBRE staff has engaged directly with the CBRE employees partnership. Money raised has paid for nine additional Shelter advisors, supporting over 5,500 families. Employees have also donated time and expertise, including have participated 870 hours of volunteering and 275 hours of pro bono support. We have identified in Shelter more than £1.7 million ($2.09 million) in projected savings and increased profits for Shelter as a result of CBRE support over the next 5 years. This level of employee engagement was recognized with the award for Best Scheme to Encourage Staff Fundraising at the 2016 Better Society Awards. AMERICAS CBRE continued to make a significant impact across the United States through the efforts of our individual offices supporting meaningful causes in their local communities as well as four initiatives – Shelter Program, Matching Funds Program, National Shoe Collection and Birthday Cakes & More for Homeless Children. CBRE also continues to offer U.S. employees two days paid time off during the year for their participation in certain volunteer opportunities. Shelter Program Established in 2010 in partnership with national housing nonprofits Rebuilding Together, HomeAid and Habitat for Humanity, the CBRE Shelter Program continued as the flagship program for CBRE Cares in the U.S. The program is designed to improve housing options for individuals in need and allows our professionals to use their leadership skills to deliver measurable results in their communities. In 2016, 740 U.S. employees volunteered nearly 6,000 hours to rebuild 27 facilities, including private residences and community centers. Nearly $300,000 was donated to support these projects. During the past seven years, more than 6,940 CBRE employees have donated over 50,900 volunteer hours in completing 179 CBRE Shelter Program rebuilding projects across the U.S. and in other parts of the world. Matching Funds Program CBRE donated more In 2016, the CBRE Foundation donated a total of more than $598,000 to hundreds than $598,000 of organizations across the country that our employees supported financially through our Matching Funds Program. through our Matching Funds Program National Shoe Collection Throughout the past six years, CBRE has provided over 100,000 pairs of shoes to people in need around the world through our National Shoe Collection program. In 2016, 109 CBRE locations collected nearly 13,000 pairs of shoes that were donated to Soles4Souls. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 CONTENTS C OM MUNI T IES & G IV IN G Birthday Cakes & More for Homeless Children Since its inception in 2001, the Birthday Cakes & More for Homeless Children program has delivered more than 10,000 cakes, including 1,084 cakes delivered in 2016. Through this grassroots initiative, employees hand-deliver personalized cakes to homeless children to help them celebrate their birthdays. Many large and small charitable activities were also organized throughout the region, including in Mexico and Canada, by local CBRE Cares committees. APAC Walk for a Wish raised As the largest philanthropic event in APAC, Walk for a Wish supports CBRE’s more than $384,000 commitment to social responsibility by bringing teams of employees, clients and vendors together from each business line in order to raise funds for various in 2016 charitable causes in each participating country. In 2016, the 10-kilometer Walk for a Wish was held in 15 locations across Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, New Zealand and Singapore. Initiated in 2010 by CBRE’s Asset Services team in Australia, the event has raised more than $1.4 million over seven years, including more than $384,000 raised by more than 2,000 participants in 2016. Countries throughout the APAC region organized local charitable initiatives in 2016. For the tenth year, CBRE China has sponsored the Save a Child’s Life program in partnership with Operation Blessing, providing financial support for surgeries and medical treatment to children who suffer from congenital heart disease. CBRE Hong Kong team members raised funds for The Nature Conservancy through sponsorship of and participation in the Barclays MoonTrekker. Charitable activities were also organized in Australia, India, Japan, Thailand and Vietnam. DISASTER RELIEF The CBRE Foundation Acting in coordination with CBRE, the CBRE Foundation and regional and local responded in 2016 with disaster relief committees, the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation enhances employee contributions and distributes funds through a network of pre-approved partner critical disaster relief organizations that focus on disaster relief and rebuilding communities in need. assistance in multiple For example, CBRE’s EMEA Disaster Relief Funds and our Italian business pledged countries, including €30,000 ($33,000) to support aid agency relief efforts on the ground following the Italy and Haiti 6.2 magnitude earthquake in central Italy in August 2016. Additional funds were raised through a variety of employee fundraising efforts. In October 2016, CBRE initiated a global fundraising campaign to aid the victims of Hurricane Matthew in Haiti and the southeastern United States. The campaign was conducted through the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation, with funds going to Direct Relief, Rebuilding Together and Plan International to support their efforts in helping the victims of this natural disaster and rebuilding affected communities. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 52 PROCUREMENT CONNEC TIONS CONTENTS P R OC URE ME NT KEY LINKS Supplier Code of Conduct Slavery & Tracking Statement PROCUREMENT WITH AN ANNUAL global spend in excess of $50 billion, provided by more than 85,000 suppliers that we contract for ourselves and our clients, CBRE recognizes the opportunity to influence suppliers on a large scale, while also mitigating supply chain risks. As a services company, CBRE’s supply chain is primarily comprised of resources to support our employees. These include information technology products and services (e.g., hardware, software, telecom, printers, outsourced services), marketing materials (artwork, signage, direct mail) and facilities (leasing, furniture, maintenance). We purchase a number of services to support our business, including consulting, legal, human resources, marketing and training. We also purchase products and services to support the work we do for our clients, including office furnishings, janitorial products and services, and facility maintenance products and services. [102-9] In 2016, we selected a new procurement software solution that will allow us to CBRE selected new digitize supplier management practices and reduce supply chain risks around a procurement software variety of categories, including environmental impact, diversity, health and safety practices, and compliance with human rights. This aggregation of supplier in 2016 that will information will help us improve performance and value, and will integrate with increase efficiency other technology and processes for operational efficiency and knowledge management. This software is being implemented in 2017. POLICIES We expect our suppliers to conduct their operations in an environmentally sustainable and socially responsible manner. At the same time, we have the opportunity to use our global supply chain to promote sustainable business practices and support local businesses around the world. The magnitude of the impact of our supply chain far exceeds our own sustainability impact as a firm. For these reasons, we established a global Supplier Code of Conduct in 2016. The Code sets forth fundamental ethical and business conduct requirements for our suppliers and includes guidance on anti-bribery/anti-corruption, unfair business practices, data privacy and information security, conflicts of interest, labor standards, health and safety, supplier-provided gifts and environmental sustainability. The Code is CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 54 CONTENTS P R OC URE ME NT referenced in all supplier contracts and purchase orders, and all CBRE businesses and departments have been asked to reasonably monitor their respective suppliers’ adherence and take appropriate measures regarding supplier non-compliance. CBRE released its first In 2016, we also released our first Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, Slavery and Human which outlines the specific steps we have taken across our business to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place and that we meet requirements Trafficking Statement upon us in line with relevant legislation. This statement will be renewed annually. Our Human Rights Policy recognizes that we have a responsibility to respect human rights in our operations, to promote an appropriate example and to make a positive global impact. The policy outlines our commitment to combating the exploitation of children and therefore prohibiting any use of child labor with any vendor, supplier or other third-party arrangements. It also states that we will not do business with, tolerate or associate with organizations or entities that condone or are engaged in the practice of coercing or imposing work with little or no freedom of choice. Additional information on our Human Rights Policy can be found in the Ethics & Compliance section of this report. SUPPLIER SCREENING In 2016, we continued to expand the use of a supplier screening program to validate supplier compliance with core and optional screening criteria. The program allows CBRE to mitigate supplier risk by employing a robust prequalification, supplier selection and ongoing monitoring process to provide more transparency and improve early detection of performance and/or reputational risks. The program segments suppliers by risk profile and supplier classification to allow for some flexibility in the extent of the screening. The full screening covers security, financial, insurance, environmental, health and safety, diversity and other checks to limit, if not eliminate, residual risk we or our clients may face due to non-compliant suppliers and subcontractors. In 2016, CBRE screened nearly 28,000 of the more than 85,000 suppliers that we manage for ourselves and our clients. We have a goal to screen more than 80% of our direct and indirect suppliers globally by 2019. As planned, we are expanding our use of web-based supplier screening to the Latin America, EMEA and APAC regions in 2017. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY CBRE awarded more We continued developing our supplier diversity strategies and practices in 2016 to than $281 million to enhance the value of the goods and services we provide for our clients and our company. In 2016, CBRE awarded more than $281 million to certified diverse certified diverse suppliers for either client or CBRE needs. Nearly $245 million was spent with suppliers in 2016 diverse suppliers on behalf of our clients, including $127.5 million on behalf of our CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 CONTENTS P R OC URE ME NT Asset Service s clients and over $117 million on behalf of our Global Workplace Solutions (GWS) clients. We purchased more than $36 million in goods and services from diverse suppliers for our corporate use. We are continuing to engage with organizations that can help us improve our supplier diversity. We are a corporate member of the National Minority Supplier Diversity Council (NMDSC), the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), the National Veterans Business Development Council (NVBDC) and the National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). We attend a number of conferences and events organized by these councils annually in an effort to expand our relationships with diverse suppliers. IMPACTS More than 530 contracts were executed by CBRE Corporate Sourcing and Procurement in 2016. The services and goods contracted spanned accounting services to benefits, legal, construction, facility maintenance, information technology and communications, consulting, travel, fleet vehicles, security, safety and real estate services. Many of these contracts were global, multinational or cross-business in scope and leveraged CBRE’s scale for competitive advantage. CBRE continued to The CBRE Corporate Sourcing and Procurement team continued to work with enhance our efficiency Global Shared Services and lines of business on many regionally relevant solutions to enhance our corporate citizenship contributions, including Workplace360, and sustainability responsible recycling and disposal of IT equipment, digital marketing, managed metrics in 2016 print, environmentally sustainable office products and furniture, energy-efficient IT equipment, cloud data storage, audio conferencing and airline travel. As we continue to transition our corporate offices to a paperless environment, certain legal files and documents are required to be maintained in offsite storage. During 2016, we worked with our vendor partner to securely shred and recycle 917,738 pounds of paper in the U.S. This had the equivalent of preserving 7,700 trees and saving 12.6 million gallons of water. Through the use of 30-100% of post-consumer paper waste to produce our business cards and presentation materials, our U.S. operations saved 31,106 pounds of wood and 46,736 gallons of water. In adherence with strict IT policies, CBRE contracts with a global supplier for the responsible removal and recycling of all employee computer hardware equipment. During 2016, a total of 8,328 units were recycled and 9,182 units reused. This kept 169,387 pounds of electronic waste out of landfills. In 2016, the use of digital signature technology protected 105 trees and conserved over 97,000 gallons of water. The use of responsible printing practices such as recycled paper and duplex printing avoided over 10,000 gallons of water and protected 10 trees. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 56 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE CONNEC TIONS CONTENTS E THICS & C OMP L IANCE KEY LINKS Standards of Business Conduct CBRE Ethics HelpLine World’s Most Ethical Company Supplier Code of Conduct Anti-Corruption Policy ETHICS & COMPLIANCE OUR ETHICS & COMPLIANCE program maintains and supports a consistent culture of values that acts as the cornerstone of our global business philosophy and ensures that our success is achieved in the right way. In 2016, CBRE was not subjected to significant fines or sanctions for noncompliance with the law or regulations in any country. No legal actions for anticompetitive or anti-trust behavior were filed against the company in 2016. [206-1, 419-1] CORPORATE VALUES AND STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT [102-16] We take great pride in our reputation for upholding the highest standards in the way we do business. Our commitment to our business standards is a major reason why CBRE is the largest commercial real estate company in the world. Our employees don’t just work and live by these standards; they are the cornerstone of our RISE corporate values. Our RISE values RESPECT. We act with consideration form the bedrock of for others’ ideas and share information openly to inspire trust and encourage CBRE’s identity as collaboration. an organization INTEGRITY. No one individual, no one deal and no one client is bigger than our commitment to our company and what we stand for. SERVICE. We approach our clients’ challenges with enthusiasm and diligence, building long-term relationships by connecting the right people, capital and opportunities. EXCELLENCE. We focus relentlessly on creating winning outcomes for our clients, employees and shareholders. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 58 CONTENTS E THICS & C OMP L IANCE CBRE is firmly committed to conducting business with the highest integrity and in compliance with the letter and spirit of the law. We are operating in a world where the rules that govern business conduct are more complex and demanding than ever. The Standards of Business Conduct (SOBC) that guide our everyday operations and bring our RISE values to life are a roadmap for our continued commitment to excellence in the global real estate industry. The SOBC outlines expectations of employee conduct relating to each other; our business partners, clients and competitors; our corporate resources; and our communities. Available in 27 languages and approved by our Board of Directors, all employees are required to read, understand, certify and adhere to our SOBC. It is the focal point of our culture of ethics and compliance and is essential to preserving the valuable trust placed upon us by our clients. (See previous page for a description of CBRE’s RISE values, illustrating their fundamental role in our SOBC.) All employees annually are required to complete SOBC certification. Through this process, each employee reaffirms his or her commitment to the RISE values and SOBC, as well as adherence to several specific policies (e.g., harassment prevention, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, confidentiality, data privacy). Employees are also encouraged to report any suspected material wrongdoing of which they might be aware. ETHICS HELPLINE [102-17] CBRE continues to focus significant energy and resources on sustaining our internal avenues for inquiries, bringing forth concerns and investigating suspected unethical or illegal activities. CBRE gives staff Led by the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, this infrastructure includes a worldwide worldwide a 24-hour anonymous reporting (as permitted by local laws) and inquiry system, the Ethics HelpLine, that is available 24 hours a day and accessible in all languages used by Ethics HelpLine CBRE employees. These third-party independent systems are promoted through our corporate communications, office posters and internal training, and are easily accessible through the internet and country-specific toll-free phone numbers. The Ethics & Compliance department is independent from business operations, so questions can be posed and advice given in a non-attributable, confidential and comfortable manner. Additionally, if an allegation of serious misconduct is logged into the system by an employee or third party, internal investigators are required to conduct a prompt, thorough and unbiased investigation consistent with internal policies. Uniformity of process and outcomes in an investigation is achieved by requiring our investigators to attend annual training and regular case peer review meetings. CBRE has a strict non-retaliation policy to encourage employees to raise issues and report concerns of misconduct. Retaliation is not tolerated, and any employee who engages in retaliatory behavior will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 CONTENTS E THICS & C OMP L IANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION [103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Anti-corruption is Anti-corruption is material to CBRE because our business is built on our reputation material to CBRE for fair and ethical business dealings. As our SOBC states: “While this reputation has been built over a century of hard work by thousands of employees, it can be and our business harmed by just one employee offering a bribe or kickback in any form. Aside from dealings damaging our reputation, corruption allegations can lead to costly and disruptive government investigations, large fines and criminal penalties against CBRE and the individuals involved.” This topic is material within our own operations, as well as for our suppliers, from whom we purchase products and services. Although we do not directly manage anticorruption activities for our suppliers and therefore cannot report on it, we work to influence this stakeholder group through our Supplier Code of Conduct, which details our expectations that suppliers must compete strictly on the basis of the merits of their products and services. The Code states: “Supplier must never offer, promise, authorize, or provide, directly or indirectly, anything of value (including, without limitation, business gifts or courtesies) with the intent or effect of inducing anyone (including, without limitation, a CBRE customer, CBRE employee, or higher tier or sub-tier supplier) to forego their duties and provide unfair business advantage to CBRE SUPPLIER CBRE, Supplier, or others. Accordingly, Supplier will, and will cause its CODE OF CONDUCT employees, representatives, and subcontractors to, comply with all Laws relating to anti-corruption and anti-money laundering in all of the countries in which any affiliated business or associate of the Supplier provides products or services, directly or indirectly, and any other countries in which Supplier conducts business.” CBRE is committed to building aggressive policies, controls, audit systems and training programs to prevent anti-corruption violations, and we are improving our monitoring processes to better identify and review potentially questionable transactions. Our Anti-Corruption Policy is translated into more than 30 languages and is applicable to all CBRE employees globally. This policy addresses all forms of inappropriate payments to government officials and other entities, including charitable donations and sponsorships intended to disguise bribery. We require mandatory anti-corruption training programs for employees in several targeted countries of operation, including new employees within the first 60 days of employment. Additionally, all new employees must provide a written sign-off to comply with the company’s ethics and anti-corruption policies. Finally, all employees are required to annually reaffirm their personal commitment to adhering to our Anti-Corruption Policy in their daily activities. CBRE received no fines, penalties or settlements in relation to corruption in 2016. [205-3] CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 60 CONTENTS E THICS & C OMP L IANCE In 2016, we implemented an Anti-Money Laundering Policy that establishes the CBRE implemented framework for the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and other an Anti-Money financial crime. We are committed to upholding anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and mitigating reputational risk, in all countries where we do Laundering Policy business. We support full transparency in all business dealings and transactions, in 2016 and will not conduct business with customers or business partners in a manner intended to disguise or hide their identity in the transaction or undertaking, or otherwise has such effect. Additional components of our anti-corruption program include:  A global, annual compliance risk assessment, conducted at the country level and applicable to each business in the company, which includes anticorruption as a primary issue. The risk assessment determines the relative risk of a violation to the mitigation of the anti-corruption program and what could be done to further improve its effectiveness. [205-1]  Quarterly review and sign-off on anti-corruption financial controls.  Periodic audits of the country-level anti-corruption controls and activities. CBRE was named a In early 2017, we were named a World’s Most Ethical Company by Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical Institute for the fourth year in a row. We will continue to develop and improve upon our anti-corruption program, including testing and developing cutting-edge Company by program areas such as data analytics and effective country and business-level Ethisphere Institute monitoring activities, in 2017. PROFESSIONAL INTEGRITY [103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Similar to anti-corruption, professional integrity is material to CBRE within our operations because our business is built on our reputation for fair and ethical business dealings. We are committed to conducting our business with the highest ethical standards and complying fully with our legal and regulatory obligations. Inherent in the commercial real estate services industry are situations where the interests of clients might conflict (or appear to conflict) with the interests of the service provider or other clients. How we respond to and manage challenging conflicts is not just a set of corporate policies and procedures – it's a fundamental factor in defining our success. CBRE has established policies and procedures in each of our operations to identify and manage conflicts of interest. These policies and procedures are the subject of ongoing monitoring and review processes embedded within our lines of businesses. These controls are overseen by our most senior executive officers, who are supported by our Legal and Compliance departments. These personnel play a vital role in the formulation of policies and make judgments regarding the appropriate resolution of particular conflicts. We have developed an extensive whitepaper, available online, that describes how and where real and perceived conflicts may arise in our business; acknowledges CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 CONTENTS E THICS & C OMP L IANCE our responsibilities to our clients and what they can expect from us; summarizes the controls we have implemented to identify and manage conflicts; and sets forth a process by which CBRE responds to requests for information, clarification or resolution of a dispute regarding conflicts. We have established avenues for our clients or other third parties to report to us any circumstance in which they believe a conflict of interest was not disclosed or managed in a manner consistent with our own policies or the law. Each report received from a client or prospective client is escalated to the appropriate personnel within CBRE to be addressed. Typically, allegations of this nature are treated as reports of serious misconduct under our Ethics & Compliance Program. This requires that they be promptly, thoroughly and impartially investigated under the supervision of our Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer. If a violation is found, prompt and thorough remedial action is taken. A periodic review of conflicts of interest is included in the CBRE Ethics & Compliance Program’s monitoring and audit plans, supported by our Global Assurance and Advisory department. PUBLIC POLICY & POLITICAL PARTICIPATION CBRE does not CBRE has had a policy of prohibiting the use of Company funds for contributions make political to political candidates, parties, campaigns or ballot initiatives for many years. We do not make political contributions – and do not reimburse employees who contributions, nor choose to make them [415-1]. reimburse any employee who does COMMUNICATIONS & TRAINING CBRE continues to emphasize the critical nature of ethics & compliance through training and media that are both engaging and educational. Our General Counsel writes “Compliance Corner,” a monthly email that covers topics such as our SOBC, integrity, conflicts of interest and a variety of our corporate policies. “Compliance Corner” is unique in its approach, however, as it uses a wide variety of pop culture references and engaging storytelling to drive home that month’s message. As a result, it has become the most widely read internal communication at CBRE. Each edition of “Compliance Corner” references the Ethics HelpLine phone number and website and encourages employees to report any concerns, violations of policies or the law and unethical conduct. In 2016, CBRE continued to offer online training on core elements of our ethics and compliance program to all employees. We facilitated training on a wide range of topics, including anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, harassment, data privacy, business gifts and gratuities and preventing money laundering. Several areas of ethics and compliance training are also provided to all new employees and must be completed within 60 days of hire. These include SOBC, harassment prevention, the employee handbook and RISE values. We will continue to offer these trainings in 2017. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 62 CONTENTS E THICS & C OMP L IANCE HUMAN RIGHTS Consistent with our values and global nature, CBRE is dedicated to complying with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. CBRE has developed We have developed and implemented a dedicated global Human Rights and implemented a Compliance Program. The cornerstone of the program is our Human Rights Policy, in which we recognize that we have a responsibility to always respect human rights global Human in our operations, to promote an appropriate example and to make a positive Rights Compliance global impact. Our policy covers topics such as child labor; human trafficking, slavery and the right to voluntary labor; freedom against prejudice and Program discrimination; safe and secure workplace; work hours and wages; and freedom of association. We further commit to maintain a safe, secure and inclusive workplace, free from prejudice and discrimination, provide fair work hours and wages, and respect the rights of employees to associate freely. Additionally, our policy states that CBRE endorses the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and will work to raise awareness within our employee population of our responsibility to protect human rights. We continue to include human rights in our annual risk assessment that is conducted in every country in which we do business [412-1]. We commit to embedding human rights practices into our global culture as an ongoing commitment to our RISE values and to being a responsible business. DATA PRIVACY We are committed CBRE is committed to ensuring that all personal or sensitive data within our to ensuring that all possession or control, whether that of our employees or clients, is handled correctly throughout its entire lifecycle. We are committed to respecting and personal and protecting the privacy of individuals and keeping personal information secure by sensitive data is complying with applicable data protection, privacy and information security laws and regulations. handled correctly Our data privacy policy describes CBRE’s methods regarding the necessary collection, use, disclosure and safeguarding of personal information for business-related purposes. Our Global Privacy Officer is responsible for the oversight of this policy and the CBRE Global Privacy Program. In 2016, we did not have any substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy or loss of customer data. [418-1] In 2017, we will expand the scope and breadth of our enterprise Global Privacy Program. This includes bolstering our organizational governance, developing key policies and adhering to the new European Union General Data Protection Regulation that was approved by the EU Parliament in April 2016. These efforts will further assist in our adherence to the multiple types of data privacy regulations throughout the world. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 GOVERNANCE CONNEC TIONS CONTENTS G OV E RNA N CE KEY LINKS 2017 Proxy Statement Managing Conflicts of Interest GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS [102-18] CBRE HAS an 11-member Board of Directors, 10 of whom our Board deems independent, and the eleventh who is our President and CEO, Robert E. Sulentic. This level of independence exceeds the majority standard established by our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Our Board by-laws require that the Board Chair be an independent director. The independent Chair of our Board, Ray Wirta, has served in this capacity since 2014. We have separated the roles of CEO and Board Chair since 2001 in recognition of the differences between the two roles. Our CEO is responsible for setting the strategic direction and overseeing the day-to-day leadership and performance of the company while our Board Chair provides leadership to our Board and oversight and guidance to our CEO. [102-23] Our Board is assisted by its committees: Audit and Finance (Audit), Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating (Governance) and Executive Committees. The Audit, Compensation and Governance Committees are considered key governance committees, and each member is independent under CBRE standards and guidelines, as well as in the case of our Audit Committee, under relevant rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). At least one member of our Board serving on the Audit Committee is required to have the qualifications and skills necessary to be considered an “Audit Committee Financial Expert” under relevant SEC rules, and it has been determined that all of our current Audit Committee members qualify as “Audit Committee Financial Experts.” One of our Board One of our Board directors serves as a Board liaison to management for corporate directors serves responsibility matters, providing visibility to our Board in respect to our activities in this area, and we believe that this reflects the value that we and our Board places as liaison to on corporate responsibility. That Board director sits on our Global Corporate management for Responsibility Steering Committee, a management-level task force that has been established to advance our corporate responsibility goals, and periodically CR matters updates our Board on the progress being made. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 CONTENTS G OV E RNA N CE Director Nomination Criteria [102-24] Our Governance Committee regularly reviews the composition of our Board and whether the addition of directors with particular experience, skills or characteristics would make our Board more effective. When a need arises to fill a vacancy, or it is determined that a director possessing particular experiences, skills or characteristics would make our Board more effective, our Governance Committee conducts targeted efforts to identify and recruit individuals who have the identified qualifications. Our Board is Board candidates are selected on the basis of outstanding achievement in their interested in adding professional careers, broad experience, personal and professional integrity, ability to make independent and analytical inquiries, financial literacy, mature judgment, members with a high performance standards, familiarity with our business and industry, and ability passion for building to work collegially. In addition, our Board is interested in adding candidates over time who are operating executives (particularly current chief executives or other a transformative operating executives of other large public companies) or who have a strong business technology background and in both cases, a passion for building a transformative business on a global basis. Other factors include having members with international experience, including knowledge of emerging markets or management of business operations and resources that are dispersed across a global platform, as well as various and relevant career experience and technical skills; and having a Board that is diverse as a whole. Of the 11 members currently serving on our Board, two directors, Christopher Jenny and Paula Reynolds, joined our Board in 2016, and one director, Beth Cobert, joined our Board in early 2017. Additional information on director nomination criteria may be found beginning on page 6 of our 2017 Proxy Statement. Board Composition [405-1] GENDER Men: 8 Women: 3 AGE GROUP Under 30 years old: 0 30-50 years old: 1 Over 50 years old: 10 CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 66 CONTENTS G OV E RNA N CE RISK MANAGEMENT [102-11] Our Board plays an active role in overseeing our risk management. The Board regularly reviews information regarding our credit, liquidity, operations and significant corporate and capital market transactions, as well as the risks Our Board maintains associated with each. Our Board maintains direct oversight over our enterprise risk direct oversight over management (ERM) process rather than delegating this function to a Board or management committee. We maintain an executive risk committee chaired by our CBRE’s ERM process Chief Risk Officer and consisting of several other key senior executives responsible for identifying, assessing and managing our most significant risks. This executive risk committee reports to the CEO. Our ERM process identifies, assesses, responds to and monitors significant strategic, operational, financial and legal and compliance risks to our organization. Annually, senior leaders across the organization are interviewed by our Chief Risk Officer and/or head of our Global Assurance and Advisory department regarding these risks based on a standard Business Risk Inventory developed and maintained by our Global Risk Management group. These items, which are developed in consultation with both internal and external resources, are mapped and our executive risk committee assesses them against commonly accepted prioritization criteria (magnitude of impact, likelihood of occurrence, etc.). For the most significant risks, risk owners are assigned and are responsible for implementing CBRE’s risk analysis, response and reporting tools. Quarterly updates for each of these significant risks are provided to the executive risk committee. We believe that this process is a best practice and enhances our ability to identify and manage risk for our company. As part of the ERM process, we have a policy to address when and how our formal risk management process and executive risk committee should be triggered for new, expanded or challenged business opportunities or significant transactions. Under the policy, certain events and business activities trigger the escalation of risk information to the executive risk committee so that it may take appropriate action (e.g., risk mitigation, further diligence and enhanced management approvals). For example, this policy would be triggered if CBRE were exploring a new line of business or operations in new and higher risk geographies. Additional information on risk management may be found on page 15 of our 2017 Proxy Statement. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 CONTENTS G OV E RNA N CE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST [102-25] Given the breadth of our business and diversity of clients, there may be times when potential conflicts of interest arise. Through our policies, employee education and oversight efforts, we proactively manage such conflicts in full accordance with the law, our Standards of Business Conduct and our RISE values. We have implemented a comprehensive global conflicts of interest framework that guides our employees through conflict issues that may come up in their business activities. This framework signals our commitment to put our clients first by conducting our business with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with all of our legal and regulatory obligations. CBRE directors and Our directors and executives must report to us any potential material conflicts of executives must interest or corporate opportunities that they wish to undertake, prior to undertaking the transaction. When such a potential conflict of interest or corporate opportunity report any potential situation arises, it is reviewed and then approved or rejected by our Audit Committee. materials conflicts of Our Policy Regarding Related Party Transactions and Corporate Opportunities interest can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website, and related-party and other transactions involving our officers and directors are described on page 70 of our 2017 Proxy Statement. Our Managing Conflicts of Interest document is available on our website. LEARN MORE Additional information on our corporate governance practices can be found in our 2017 Proxy Statement. This includes:  Executive compensation details, beginning on page 48 [102-35]  Biographies of our Board members, beginning on page 7 [102-22]  Board committee details, including committee composition, number of meetings held in 2016 and committee responsibilities CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 68 GRI CONTENT INDEX | UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES CONTENTS G R I C ON T E NT I N D E X GRI CONTENT INDEX [102-55] GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTION OMISSION GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organization Inside CBRE GRI 102: Activities, brands, products, and GENERAL 102-2 Inside CBRE services DISCLOSURES 102-3 Location of headquarters Inside CBRE 2016 102-4 Location of operations Inside CBRE 102-5 Ownership and legal form Inside CBRE 102-6 Markets served Inside CBRE 102-7 Scale of the organization Inside CBRE Information on employees and 102-8 People and Culture other workers 102-9 Supply chain Procurement Significant changes to the 102-10 organization and its supply Inside CBRE chain Precautionary Principle or 102-11 Governance approach 102-12 External initiatives Inside CBRE 102-13 Membership of associations Inside CBRE Statement from senior decision102-14 Stakeholder Letter maker Values, principles, standards, Ethics and 102-16 and norms of behavior Compliance Mechanisms for advice and Ethics and 102-17 concerns about ethics Compliance 102-18 Governance structure Governance Composition of the highest 102-22 governance body and its Governance committees Chair of the highest governance 102-23 Governance body Nominating and selecting the 102-24 Governance highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Governance CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 70 CONTENTS G R I C ON T E NT I N D E X 102-35 Remuneration policies Governance Collective bargaining 102-41 People and Culture agreements Identifying and selecting 102-42 Inside CBRE stakeholders Approach to stakeholder 102-43 Inside CBRE engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Inside CBRE Entities included in the 102-45 consolidated financial Inside CBRE statements Defining report content and topic 102-46 Inside CBRE Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Inside CBRE 102-48 Restatements of information Inside CBRE 102-49 Changes in reporting Inside CBRE 102-50 Reporting period Inside CBRE 102-51 Date of most recent report Inside CBRE 102-52 Reporting cycle Inside CBRE Contact point for questions 102-53 Inside CBRE regarding the report Claims of reporting in 102-54 accordance with the GRI Inside CBRE Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance Inside CBRE MATERIAL TOPICS ANTI-CORRUPTION Explanation of the material topic Ethics and GRI 103: 103-1 and its Boundaries Compliance MANAGEMENT The management approach and Ethics and APPROACH 2016 103-2 its components Compliance Evaluation of the management Ethics and 103-3 approach Compliance Operations assessed for risks Ethics and GRI 205: 205-1 related to corruption Compliance ANTI-CORRUPTION Confirmed incidents of corruption Ethics and 2016 205-3 and actions taken Compliance CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 CONTENTS G R I C ON T E NT I N D E X OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Explanation of the material topic GRI 103: 103-1 and its Boundaries Health and Safety MANAGEMENT The management approach and APPROACH 103-2 Health and Safety its components 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management Health and Safety approach We expect to have LTIR data for GRI 403: contractors in 2017. We do not OCCUPATIONAL Types of injury and rates of track absentee rate. We do not HEALTH AND SAFETY injury, occupational diseases, feel that occupational disease 403-2 Health and Safety 2016 lost days, and absenteeism, and rate is relevant to our business. number of work-related fatalities We do not feel there is value in breaking out injury rate data by gender. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Explanation of the material topic GRI 103: 103-1 and its Boundaries People and Culture MANAGEMENT The management approach and APPROACH 103-2 People and Culture its components 2016 Evaluation of the management 103-3 People and Culture approach We currently do not report on GRI 405: indicators of diversity other DIVERSITY AND Diversity of governance bodies People and Culture, than gender and age group. EQUAL 405-1 and employees Governance We are considering reporting OPPORTUNITY 2016 on other indicators of diversity in the future. PROFESSIONAL INTEGRITY Explanation of the material topic Ethics and GRI 103: 103-1 and its Boundaries Compliance MANAGEMENT The management approach and Ethics and APPROACH 103-2 its components Compliance 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management Ethics and approach Compliance ADDITIONAL TOPICS GRI 206: Legal actions for anti-competitive ANTI-COMPETITIVE Ethics and 206-1 behavior, anti-trust, and BEHAVIOR Compliance monopoly practices 2016 CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 72 CONTENTS G R I C ON T E NT I N D E X Energy consumption within the Environmental GRI 302: 302-1 organization Sustainability ENERGY Reductions in energy 2016 Environmental 302-5 requirements of products and Sustainability services Direct (Scope 1) GHG Environmental GRI 305: 305-1 emissions Sustainability EMISSIONS Energy indirect (Scope 2) Environmental 2016 305-2 GHG emissions Sustainability GRI 307: Non-compliance with ENVIRONMENTAL Environmental 307-1 environmental laws and COMPLIANCE regulations Sustainability 2016 We do not report details on GRI 401: new employee hires and we do EMPLOYMENT New employee hires and not break out employee 2016 401-1 People and Culture employee turnover turnover by employee demographics. We consider this information confidential. GRI 404: We do not break out Percentage of employees performance review data by TRAINING AND 404-3 receiving regular performance People and Culture gender or employee category. EDUCATION and career development reviews We consider this information 2016 confidential. GRI 412: Operations that have been HUMAN RIGHTS Ethics and 412-1 subject to human rights reviews ASSESSMENT or impact assessments Compliance 2016 GRI 415: Ethics and PUBLIC POLICY 415-1 Political contributions Compliance 2016 GRI 418: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer Ethics and CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 privacy and losses of customer Compliance 2016 data GRI 419: Non-compliance with laws and SOCIOECONOMIC Ethics and 419-1 regulations in the social and COMPLIANCE economic area Compliance 2016 CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 CONTENTS UNGC UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE LOCATION HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the Principle 1 protection of internationally proclaimed human Ethics & Compliance rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human Principle 2 Ethics & Compliance rights abuses. LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of Ethics & Compliance, Principle 3 association and the effective recognition of the People & Culture right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 4 Ethics & Compliance compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Ethics & Compliance the elimination of discrimination in respect of Ethics & Compliance, Principle 6 employment and occupation. People & Culture ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary Environmental Principle 7 approach to environmental challenges; Sustainability undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental Principle 8 environmental responsibility; and Sustainability encourage the development and diffusion of Environmental Principle 9 environmentally friendly technologies. Sustainability ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all Principle 10 Ethics & Compliance its forms, including extortion and bribery. CBRE | 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 74 cbre.com/responsibililty
