RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 Communication on Progress RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 March 24th, 2017 Statement of Continued Support On behalf of RA International, I reconfirm our company’s commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti– Corruption. When we first became a signatory in 2005, we did so out of the the en Principles truly reflect our operating philosophies, standards and In this annual Communication on Progress, we will describe the actions RA International has taken over the past year to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact into our business strategy and daily operations. Yours sincerely, SORAYA NARFELDT CEO, RA INTERNATIONAL RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 Who we are and what we do RA International provides construction, logistics, life support and maintenance services for clientele operating in remote and demanding environments. We focus on serving those involved in humanitarian operations and have gained significant experience through operating predominantly in crisis and post– crisis areas. RA International is headquartered in Dubai, with regional offices across Africa. We have grown into a multifaceted firm, employing over 1600 people from 33 different countries. This blend of cultures has led to a deep understanding of people from all sorts of backgrounds, and we believe that this is what has allowed our organization to flourish. It is, and always has been, our objective to combine our business projects with sustainable outcomes for the local environment and for the people we employ. Staff are, wherever possible, recruited locally, which develops a feeling among the local residents that change has indeed started to happen, and that they are part of it. We believe that running a sustainable business brings benefits for everyone, including our staff, customers and the communities in which we operate, and this forms the foundation of all our business strategies and daily operations. On top of this, we have a social responsibility fund, to which we commit a percentage of our profits each year. Over the last decade, this fund has been used to carry out close to 30 initiatives in six countries. Our most recent initiative is the support to an orphanage in Bangui, CAR, which started in January 2017 with the intention of forming a long-term partnership. RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS • All of our partners have been made aware through our webpage and other communication channels that we are signatures to the UN Global Compact and what that entails. Our continuous goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is reflected in our Code of Conduct and our Company Policies, which are regularly updated and available to all employees in both hard and soft copy across all our offices, to include those employees who do not regularly have access to computers. • We continue to ensure that all our suppliers respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and comply with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as our own social and environmental standards. We use a variety of tools to assess suppliers including background checks, self-assessment surveys, site visits and audits. We do not work with suppliers who do not meet the standards we have set for ourselves. Any contravention will be documented and non-compliance will result in the partner relationship being terminated. • The Company intends to strive for continual improvement in all areas of health, safety and welfare and to present themselves as an industry leader in the development of effective and practicable health and safety management systems. In 2016, adequate resources were mobilized to ensure the improvement of current reporting systems in these areas. RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 LABOUR • RA International continues to have a low staff turnover rate, indicative of the high standards in our working environment. • All staff are encouraged to take opportunities to improve their skills at the company expense, which resulted in a high number of staff across all our locations attending internal as well as external training in relevant fields of expertise in 2016. • RA Internationals Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) management system is certified in accordance with best international practices. We follow both British and OSHA standards as per any clients requirement, and we adapt using the best of both systems to ensure a zero harm philosophy. RA International strives to achieve high standards and continuous improvements in Health and Safety during project development. Measures taken at some of the recently completed projects include daily meetings to review risk assessments, the deployment of dedicated Safety Managers on site and closely following accident rate statistic within the construction industries in order to constantly evaluate our own practices. • In the past year, we have regularly held workshops on health and safety across all our locations. We thereby ensure to keep our staff’s knowledge on health and safety instructions and procedures, as well as on first aid up to date. RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 LABOUR CONT. • As part of its OHS management RA International sets strict conditions for its contractors and subcontractors, which are communicated through a dedicated safety procedural system in regards to Environment and Health and Safety Matters. • RA international has its own clinic in Somalia which is always open to all staff for any health issues. We ensure that the clinic is well equipped at all times and our medical staff’s knowledge is kept up to date. In 2016, we implemented a successful influenza vaccination program for our staff in Somalia which helped prevent infection and ensured staff wellbeing. • RA International is committed to equality of opportunity in employment, irrespective of gender, gender reassignment, marital status, disability, age, race, colour, nationality, sexual orientation, religion and belief. As of March 2017, we have employees from 33 different nationalities. As we work in some of the most vulnerable communities in the world, we put strong focus on hiring locally wherever possible. We see this as one of the best ways to contribute to the development of these communities and create stability for the families of those we hire, and thereby contribute to long term peace in society in general. It is in this manner that more than half of our staff in Somalia and more than 80 % of our staff in CAR are local nationals. We also hire female staff wherever possible. In Somalia, a country where women traditionally have little to no access to long term employment, we permanently employ 18 local women for our operations. RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENT • Environmental matters are key to RA International and are reflected in all of the Company’s operations. RA International operates according to an ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System. The Company is committed to environmental leadership in all its projects to prevent any negative impact that might come as a direct result of its operations. We believe that thorough research, improved designs, effective mitigation measures, environmental monitoring and a clear and concise environmental policy are all crucial factors in reducing the negative environmental impacts in any of our operations. The nature of our business means that we for instance build camps in wilderness areas, generate electricity to power our camps, and burn fuel to transport people, materials and food supplies. As a business, we always weigh up the potential benefits of a project versus its impacts. Only when the advantages outweigh the impacts, do we go ahead. • The largest achievement in 2016 in terms of environmental management was the installation of shredders and incinerators for our clients across four locations in Somalia, along with the creation of ash landfills. The typical waste generated by our clients includes organic waste, paper, cardboard, plastic, glass, aluminum and scrap wood. These solid waste materials are segregated for processing through the shredding and incineration processes, to finally be disposed of to the ash landfill. The GL 63/180 double shaft shredder reduces the bigger sizes of solid waste into chunks to allow for a fast and efficient incineration process, while the solid waste incinerator YD– 300 has a very high burning efficiency as well as the ability to generate high temperatures that results in the reduction of pollutants. Altogether, the installation of this equipment has contributed to an overall more efficient and eco– friendly waste management strategy for our clients. • The Company furthermore increased its commitment to ensure monitoring of the environmental impact of its operations in 2016, and actively sought out measures to reduce it. We depend on feedback especially from within our workforce, and reward good suggestions that lead to more eco-friendly practices. • Operating in remote and challenging environments means that we have little to no access to reliable grid power. It is therefor of special interests to us to be as power efficient as possible. We ensure this through continuous staff education on clever use of power as well as by always ensuring we use up-to date, energy efficient equipment. • The Company continues to ensure that every legal requirement relating to the environment is fulfilled to its best possible outcome, and that its employees and all its contractors have the relevant expertise and ability to adhere to the Company’s Environmental Policy. RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 ANTI – CORRUPTION • The company continues to fully support the UN Global Compact 10 th Principle, which requires participants to not only avoid corruption, but also to develop policies and concrete programs to address it. Our business relationships are built on honesty, fairness and trust. We continue to follow a zerotolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion, which is strongly highlighted in our Code of Conduct and Company Policies. Employees are regularly advise to read, understand and follow the articulated policies and procedures. • Internally, we continue to maintain a strongly monitored check and balance system on all our transactions. All company expenditures and transactions are recorded with proper documentation. Our books and accounts are annually subjected to external audits, which are used as one of the methods of identifying any payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. RA International is proud to say there has been no such incident reported. • We stand by our belief that engaging the supply chain through meaningful anti-corruption programs improves product quality, reduces fraud and related costs, enhances the company’s reputation for honest business and creates a more sustainable platform for future growth. RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 2017 targets • Continue to ensure that all staff understand and adhere to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact • Create better reporting mechanisms to capture efforts that support the Global Compact. HUMAN RIGHTS • Continue to influence that all our employees and business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • Continue to respect the different cultural identities of our employees, stakeholders and customers. LABOUR • Traditionally, construction is a male– dominated industry. In 2017, we want to further the employment of women, and will be working actively towards the hiring of female staff wherever possible. • Continue our zero tolerance policy of any form of discrimination or harassment. RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 2017 targets cont. ENVIRONMENT • Continue to ensure monitoring of the environmental impact of our operations and actively seeking out measures to reduce it. • Be more pro-active in integrating environmentally friendly thinking into daily working life for all staff through team days, regular updates, newsletters and meetings discussing implementation and ideas of how the company can further its environmental policy. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Continue to promote honest, ethical and transparent conduct, including in the handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interests between personal and professional relationships. • Continue to maintain a strongly monitored check and balance system on all our transactions.
