United Global Compact. Communication progress 2017. Company Name Contact Name Submission Date Number of Employees Berendsen plc Nagore Marco 18 April 2017 15,000+ Address Position Membership Date Sector 4 Grosvenor Place Group Risk Manager 27 January 2009 Support Services London SW1X7DL Telephone Number Highest level executive Country 0044 207 259 6663 Chief Executive Officer United Kingdom Introduction and progress since joining Berendsen plc became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on 27 January 2009. This is our 8th communication on Progress. We outline below the progress we are making in each of the areas covered by the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Participation in the Global Compact continues to provide us with a recognised and respected policy framework for our work on corporate responsibility. Many of the markets that we operate in are continuing to demand higher levels of cooperation and innovation in the areas outlined in the Global Compact’s ten principles. As a Support Service, we understand the importance of ensuring we can grow with our client’s demands to provide a service which benefits our customers, our environment, our communities and our world as a whole. Statement of continued support As Chief Executive Officer I commit Berendsen plc to continued support for the United Nations Global Compact in the coming year. James Drummond Chief Executive Officer Signature 02 Our business and its impacts Our customers demand that we provide the highest standards of products and service; they require us to source the products that We continue to be a focused European textile, hygiene and safety they need, and provide the highest standards of cleanliness. solutions business. We lease, source, clean and maintain textiles Increasingly we need to be innovative and flexible to meet these that our customers need to keep their business running. The demands, whilst maintaining high standards of reliability and European textile rental market in which we operate can be broken timeliness of delivery. down into six key areas: Workwear, cleanroom, mats, washroom, We continue to focus on maintaining excellent operational healthcare and hospitality. Through our network of laundries and standards both in our laundries and within our distribution network. other production facilities we provide service solutions to each of We recognise that our customers and our own people demand that these areas. We also provide direct sales and production. we comply with all appropriate employment standards, in all the Within each of our business lines there are market dynamics that countries where we operate. Our strategic restructuring, which took influence individual market segments. The specialist services we place after a review of our business strategy in 2015, will allow us to provide are predominantly non-core activities for our clients. Our focus on our customers and deepen our understanding of their density and scale in our key geographies allows us to provide an markets. This will in turn unlock greater opportunities for our expert and cost-efficient service, meeting our client’s needs and businesses going forward. allowing them to free up capital to invest in their own business. As Each of these sectors contribution to our total group revenue in 2016 clients expand, we often expand with them, working efficiently and 2015 was as follows: across national boundaries. Our services are often critical for the safe day-to-day running of our clients’ operations (e.g. hospitals, food industry, R&D centres). Our track record in understanding Business overview evolving standards and our ability to devise innovative products 2016 2015 and services to meet them means we are a partner of choice in Revenue Revenue many industries. Our economies of scale mean that we can launder and sterilise far more cost-effectively and efficiently than Core growth our clients. Our focus on reducing our use of water, electricity, Workwear £347m £314m chemicals, oil & gas and CO2 emissions (WECO) not only gives us a competitive advantage but also gives our clients the confidence to use us as part of their own environmental supply chain due diligence. Facility £259m £226m The nature of our business dictates that the services we provide  Mats; to customers have varying impacts on the environment, our  Washroom; and employees and the communities in which we operate. These  Cleanroom. manifest themselves in varying degrees throughout the product and service lifecycle, and include: Healthcare £317m £299m  The production and/or purchase of textiles, much of which is  Managed linen supply to hospital wards; sourced from overseas. As a consequence we are mindful of  Sterile textiles supply to operating ensuring that appropriate labour practices are applied theatres; and throughout our supply chain;  Supply of single use textiles, dressing packs and sterile consumables.  The washing, drying and packing of textiles at our plants where we use of water, energy and detergents. These are closely monitored within a programme of reduction; Hospitality  Managed linen supply; £187m £179m  Many of our employees work in our plants with industrial  Product innovation; laundry machinery and equipment so we recognise the  Workwear supply and chef wear; and importance of providing them with the appropriate training, tools and equipment to create a safe and healthy working  Restaurant textile services. environment;  The delivery of our products and services involves a high level of logistics. We therefore understand the importance of continually reviewing the routing of delivery vehicles to ensure the most efficient use of our fleet resources and fuel; and  Our operations recruit from the local community and many of our plants are in suburban areas. We therefore recognise the importance of maintaining a strong local reputation. 03 Our strategic approach to Vision, Mission & Values sustainability The driving force behind our sustainability goals and the deliverability of our CR strategy are contained within our new “Corporate Responsibility (CR) and our credentials in this area Vision, Mission and Values. They represent the ethos Berendsen influence our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, holds itself to and inform the decisions we make on a daily basis. investors and suppliers. It is key to sustainability over the long term. They show that our customers, people, communities and Therefore, we continue to work hard to integrate CR in our business environment are at the core of all that we do: processes and in the decisions we take.” Our Vision: “Through great customer partnerships and innovation By focusing on smarter working practices and continuous we will be respected for being the best, setting new standards and dialogue with our stakeholders, we believe that corporate developing services that benefit all of our stakeholders” responsibility brings a number of opportunities to our business: Our Mission: “We are here to develop and provide valueadded  Our corporate responsibility commitments help us contribute to textile, hygiene and safety solutions” our customers' own sustainability commitments; Our Values:  New ideas and technologies improve how we work, reducing our environmental impact and our operating costs;  Being a good employer and supporting our people to do their best work helps us attract and retain high performing individuals and create a great place to work; and  Seizing the opportunity to be a more responsible business helps differentiate us from our peers and stand out in a competitive marketplace. These opportunities have informed how we focus our efforts on CR. Throughout 2017 we will be reviewing our Corporate Responsibility strategy and policies so that we can continue to improve and develop our approach to sustainability, for the benefit of our customers, employees, local communities and environment. 04 Human Rights and labour may have relating to the supply chain. These guidelines and hotline contact information have been communicated to suppliers principles and are also accessible via our website. The whistleblowing system is available in the countries languages our suppliers Principle 1 operate in. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. We regularly conduct supplier visits and these are complemented by our assurance provider’s independent audits, which report on Principle 2 each supplier’s level of compliance and alert us to any areas that Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in require improvement. human rights abuses. We also have teams of quality managers working at supplier plant Principle 3 level, and their responsibilities include maintaining a clear focus Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the on corporate responsibility matters including human rights. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. We maintain a firm focus on child labour, forced labour and labour conditions. We are absolutely committed to ensuring that child Principle 4 labour is never used by any Berendsen supplier and in 2016 we Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced published a public statement to this effect in compliance with the and compulsory labour. Modern Slavery Act 2015 requirements. Principle 5 See this statement on our website: www.Berendsen.com Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. In relation to principles 3 and 6 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Our ability to look after the well-being and development of all our respect of employment and occupation. people has a direct impact on our overall strategic performance. By engaging our people we improve customer satisfaction and retention and ultimately Berendsen’s growth prospects. Our Policies Our Human Resources and Employee Policy outlines the appreciation of our responsibility to our employees, and the importance of creating and maintaining a working environment In relation to principles 1, 2, 4 and 5 where the basic rights of all employees are recognised. Our We thoroughly acknowledge the importance of supporting and employment procedures continue to be guided by the following respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human principles: rights. We have procedures in place designed to ensure that we  Non-discrimination between employees or potential employees are not complicit in human rights abuses. and equal opportunities for all; Our main human rights risks relate to our suppliers. We reduce  Recruitment, promotion and development of employees based these risks by closely managing our supply chain and awarding on each individual’s aptitude, abilities and skills; contracts to large and trusted suppliers.  Provision of suitable training according to role and We have a Supplier Code of Conduct which is communicated to responsibilities; suppliers and made available through our website. The key principles of our code of conduct ensure suppliers:  Employee pay that meets at least national minimum standards;  Recognise and respect the protection of internationally  Excessive hours not being encouraged; proclaimed Human Rights;  Effective communication with our employees;  Abide and work in line with the United Nations Global compact  Acknowledgement of the right of any employee to join a trade principles on Human Rights and Labour; union;  Ensure the provision of a safe working environment for  Non-toleration of victimisation, sexual or other harassment or employees; bullying; and  Strictly prohibit the use of Child labour OR any form of slavery,  Regular feedback through biannual employee surveys. forced labour and Human Trafficking as defined in the Modern Slavery Act 2015; Our Group Ethics Policy recognises the importance of reinforcing the key messages about our values as a business and  Ensure labour conditions are fair; wages reflect work is currently under review so that we can communicate a strong performance and all legal requirements are complied with; and consistent message to our employees in line with the new  Prevent any form of discrimination based upon any distinction such Berendsen Mission, Vision and Values. as; race, gender, age, ethnicity, political opinion, origin etc. Our Health and Safety Policy identifies the key principles to be We have a supplier whistleblowing scheme in place which adopted to ensure that best practices are in place across the enables suppliers to raise with us any issues or concerns they group. Each of our business units are required to adopt and 05 operate with appropriate health and safety documentation at all aligned to the key performance objectives of each business line, times, while considering the appropriate local legislation and which in turn support our strategy for growth. The Berendsen specialist operational requirements. We are continually reviewing Long Term Incentive plan, first introduced in 2012, rewards our Health and Safety policies and continue working towards managers for the achievement of strategic goals and encourages achieving our objective of zero incidents. share ownership. Due to exceptional circumstances, including an organisational capability review in the UK, awards were not made Implementation in 2016 but will be made in 2017. Vision, Mission and Values Diversity Our One Berendsen Vision and Mission are supported by our Our goal is a working culture that is inclusive for all. We are Values of Determination, Caring, Empowerment, Teamwork, committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity Safety and Integrity. These Values represent the core principles amongst our workforce. We aim for our employees to be we stand for and believe in as a Group. They also form part of our representative of the communities in which we operate and for Performance and Development Review (PDR) so that each of our people to feel respected and able to give their best. performance is evaluated in line with our values. One of our commitments in this respect is to improve gender In 2016 we continued to motivate, engage, develop, reward and diversity. More than half of our employees are female and they recognise our employees. occupy 36% of middle management roles (2015: 29%), and 11% of senior leader roles (2015: 11%). These figures are an increase Employee engagement from 2015 and show our continuing focus on gender balance. We In 2015 we conducted our second company-wide “One are committed to the development of practical initiatives which will Berendsen” employee engagement survey. We had a help us achieve our gender diversity objectives for 2017. participation rate of 84% and maintained our overall engagement score of 69%. We worked on the results of this survey throughout Gender statistics 2016, which will lead on to the third companywide survey in 2017. Female Male % Female Employee communication Board of directors 2 5 29% We place a high priority on employee communications and make use of a variety of channels to provide a wide range of company Senior management 15 127 11% information, news, knowledge sharing and best practice Other management 361 636 36% exchange. We continue to develop Berendsen Universe which is our group intranet accessible to all employees. In 2016, we Employees 7484 6770 53% published eight editions of our corporate newsletter highlighting business strategy, company successes in sales and services, Supply chain and overseas textile suppliers product news and other developments across the company, with each issue introduced by the CEO giving regular updates on We regularly visit suppliers and use a single assurance provider company performance. to carry out independent audits of these suppliers to ensure that our ethical standards are being correctly observed, including Training and development those relating to human rights and working conditions. In 2016, in total nine textile suppliers were audited in Bangladesh, Pakistan, In all areas of the business we invest in the development of our Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, China and India. No significant people’s skills. In 2016, a UK workforce transformation issues relating to ethical standards were reported but a number of programme to invest in and upgrade our capability and get the recommendations were made to further improve the high right people into the right jobs was a key priority. The programme standards that our suppliers adopt. We have been working with re-scoped and increased to circa 450 posts, resulting in 40% of external specialists and suppliers to ensure that actions are middle management being upskilled and new talent being complete, or are in progress, to address all of the recruited into the business in the three largest UK business lines recommendations made. (Workwear, Healthcare and Hospitality). Those stepping into new roles will begin tailored professional development programmes to This approach provides us with a standard audit process and grow the business. reporting mechanism, highlighting each supplier’s level of compliance and flagging any actions required for improvement. We will continue to invest in our leadership development For added assurance, we have a supplier whistleblowing scheme programmes and will roll-out talent and capability programmes to which enables suppliers to flag up any issues or areas of concern. all employees. Management rewards Measurements of outcomes We reward our managers based on their performance, potential and contribution to the success of the business. We aim to  Nine audits at supplier locations completed with clear provide competitive fair rates of employee pay and benefits in recommendations made to suppliers. No significant every country where we operate. In 2016 we continued to focus issues have been reported. on clear and transparent links between performance and reward.  8 issues have been reported through the We incentivise managers through annual bonus programmes whistleblowing system in 2016. 06 Health and safety Next steps and priorities for 2017 Our Incident Reporting System requires that all major injuries,  Proactive action based on analysis of reported data to significant near misses/dangerous occurrences, and cases of any address the root causes of injuries across the Group and occupational disease are reported upwards through the reduce all injury rates organisation. The Board receives information regularly on health  Begin the process of taking the best practice standards and safety, including details of all reported incidents, as well as that we have from across the business and applying incident statistics, including major injury rate. Health and Safety is them where they add value to other areas of the Group now the first item on the agenda at all formal management meetings  Improve our health and safety audit process Management  Expanding our KPIs to have an even more proactive focus on our safety performance Safety will always be one of our core values. We recognise that our people are vital to our success and we have a duty to protect  Deliver against the strategic communications plan to them while they work to deliver the success of our company. continue the development of our fair and just safety Doing the right thing by delivering on this duty will not only secure culture our employees’ health and safety at work, it will also support Berendsen’s strategic direction by ensuring that the health and  Introducing multi-lingual e-learning for our workforce safety threats to the business are proactively resolved before they negatively impact our people and our success. We believe that a poor health and safety record is incompatible with a high performing sustainable business. Performance In July 2016, we launched the Berendsen Incident Reporting System (BIRS). Through this first step in our health and safety eenablement programme we have delivered on the reporting and investigation targets we had for 2016. The improvements we have achieved and the enhanced awareness and accessibility this has delivered has resulted in a marked increase in reporting by all employees. This is evident in the 597 near-miss reports and 1,478 safety observations that have been drafted and acted on during Q3 and Q4 2016. In 2015 we did not have these statistics. As a consequence of the reporting improvements we have made, there is an increase of 0.99 reported major injuries per one million hours worked for 2016. We believe this to be an increase in openness and reporting, not an increase in occurrences. This is very positive, as we now have a clearer picture of the key safety issues across the business and the incidents that result from them. We are now developing and implementing programmes to eliminate or reduce the identified risks. Major injury rate statistics for 2016 reported to the Board and included in our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were as follows: 07 Environmental principles sustainable, reduce costs for both ourselves and our customers and ultimately help us to win and retain more customer contracts. Principle 7 Our priorities are therefore now well-established and are centred Businesses should support a precautionary approach to on our use of water, electricity, chemicals and oil/gas (WECO). environmental challenges; Water and energy consumption Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Water plays an inevitably significant role in our washing responsibility; and processes and its effective use and recovery has an important impact on our overall environmental and operational performance. Principle 9 Water recovery initiatives form the spearhead of our drive to Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally improve efficiency. Across the group, most operations now have friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals water recovery systems in place. Changes in process account for most of the reduction in this water usage. These reductions have Our Policy been achieved through the introduction of highly technical wash systems that produce high quality work using much less energy We continue to acknowledge the importance of our business units and water with an additional benefit of reduction in fabric damage. supporting a precautionary approach to environmental Product innovation is also playing a part in reducing water challenges, undertaking initiatives to promote greater consumption. environmental responsibility, and encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We also work alongside our suppliers to validate our water recovery processes. Chemical suppliers analyse our performance We remain committed to protecting the environment both through and identify areas for improvement, while our boiler water our own actions and also by working with our suppliers. Our treatment suppliers check boiler operation and provide reports on environmental principles are consistent with those of the efficiency. An efficient boiler is the mark of good energy European Textile Services Association, which represents and management, and we check performance by monitoring the promotes the textile rental services sector in Europe. quality of the water. We also use flue gas thermometers, steam Through the communication of our own Group Environmental trap surveys and check on hot well temperatures to help us Policy we actively promote awareness in our business units of identify efficiency issues. We have installed reverse osmosis the need for: systems at sites where the boiler water supply has a high Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) count. These systems ensure very high  Lower water and energy consumption; quality water is supplied to the boilers reducing the need to blow  Use of environmentally friendly washing detergents and down boiler water to maintain the water quality within the boiler. packaging materials; We will continue to focus on initiatives that will reduce our use of  Minimisation of distances travelled when making deliveries; water and increase our recovery rate, as long as they also make commercial sense in reducing our cost base for our business and  Re-use or recycling of textiles; and our customers.  Targeted staff training on environmental issues and Chemicals and detergents housekeeping. Between 2015 and 2016, we implemented a new enzyme process To complement the adoption of these principles our business in the washing cycle in another 31 laundries (20 in 2014), which units specifically focus on: partially replaces detergents and chemicals as well as improving  Researching with suppliers ways to minimise the amount and whiteness and quality. From an environmental perspective, this concentration of detergents used in our laundries and disposed leads to a reduction in resources used and fewer harmful of in effluent, and opportunities for low temperature washing; substances contained within the waste water.  Routinely recovering water and energy for re-use; ‘Cool Chemistry’ has been introduced in six of our UK flatwork sites completing all of the flatwork sites, to reduce wash  Minimising heat, energy loss and fuel usage; temperatures and energy consumption. The wash chemicals are  Regularly reviewing vehicle routing to ensure the most efficient dynamically manufactured on site, reducing the need for use of fleet resources and fuel; and resources as well as contributing to a reduced environmental impact  Recycling textiles, paper and packaging materials wherever this is possible. Transport and logistics All vehicles adhere to the requirements of low emission zones Implementation and we always specify the latest and most efficient engines for new vehicles. In order to maintain tight control on our operations, The nature of our business means that in our everyday operations we own and operate most of our fleets ourselves. We also we inevitably use significant amounts of raw materials, energy constantly review fuel costs and usage. We have a range of and chemicals. Reducing the volumes used and better managing initiatives and programmes in place to help us reduce this impact. our overall environmental impact will make our business more The aim is to reduce fuel consumption by minimising harsh 08 acceleration, braking, and excessive idling. We monitor and  Build new state-of-the-art laundries regularly review vehicle routes to improve fuel efficiency and,  In the UK, we invested in high pressure presses that remove wherever possible, use fewer large vehicles instead of more of the water from the linen more efficiently requiring reduced the smaller ones across the business. Large vehicles have the energy for drying, as well as in more efficient batch tumble advantage of being able to carry greater volumes per mile driven, dryers which enables us to reduce the overall number of vehicles on the  Implementation of Oxyguard-40 processes (low-temperatures roads at any one time. wash) in the Danish and Swedish hospitality laundries Energy and CO2 Emissions Our activities consume energy and produce CO2 and we work hard to reduce consumption and improve efficiency. Measurements of outcomes Initiatives on water recovery have a positive knock-on effect on  In the UK water consumption has been reduced by 37% from energy usage – when we use less water, it requires less energy to 9,512 litres/tonne shipped in 2008 to 5,952 litres in 2016. heat it. This is also due to the recovered water already being at a  In the Cleanroom laundry in Bolsward, Netherlands, the high temperature and therefore needing less energy to bring it up ventilation system was renewed. As a result, the electricity to the correct temperature for washing. consumption was reduced by approximately 20% Across several plants in Europe we are changing the preferred  The re-building and new buildings projects within Workwear energy supply from “all oil” to take account of the opportunities brought us the opportunity to introduce state-of-the-art offered by more sustainable local energy sources. In addition all technology and processes. For example the rebuild of the UK sites currently run on gas. As burning oil produces 45% more laundry in Dietzenbach, Germany, reduced water and energy CO2 per kWh that using gas, we are producing less CO2 consumption by approximately 40%. Emissions in our plants. We are on compliant with Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive which requires that large enterprises complete regular energy audits. As the table below shows, Kg of CO2 per tonne of laundry shipped has fallen from 364Kg in 2015 to 353Kg in 2016. We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology and conversion factors to assess our carbon footprint. We updated the conversion factors on 1 January 2016 to reflect the new factors used by DEFRA in the UK. We value the role of the Carbon Trust Standard in helping companies reduce emissions and our UK business is proud of its existing CO2 and water certification. The water certification was renewed at the end of 2016 and we will actively be looking to renew the CO2 certification at the end of 2017. These standards are only awarded to those organisations that measure, manage and reduce their carbon footprint, which is a key priority for Berendsen. We will continue to look for new innovative solutions. Some specific examples of our initiatives are:  The testing of the new chemicals concept for Workwear laundries (Performance Industry) has been postponed, as the chemicals were not available yet. We now foresee that this testing will take place in 2017 in at least three laundries 09 Anti-corruption principles All businesses within the group are tasked with adopting a riskbased approach to managing any potential issues relating to Principle 10 bribery and corruption. An Anti-bribery and Corruption risk Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, assessment is submitted by each business on an annual basis, including extortion and bribery the results of which are reviewed and reported to our Audit Committee. We already have a well-established Incident Reporting System Our Policy which covers a number of different areas. This has been extended to include any known instances of actual or suspected Our goal is zero instance of bribery and corruption and have a bribery and/ or corruption. We had 2 counts of minor internal fraud policy which sets out the minimum requirements to ensure this reported in 2016. These were incidents relating to stance is consistent throughout the Group. The audit process for misappropriation of company’s assets. In these instances, new suppliers includes compliance with our anti-bribery and appropriate corrective actions were taken and we had no corruption requirements, a process that is overseen by our group customers affected as a result of these incidents. procurement function. Each year, or upon any significant changes to the business, each business unit must complete an anti-bribery We have developed an anti-bribery and corruption training and corruption risk assessment, and bribery awareness is content which is available in all our twelve Berendsen languages frequently an agenda item for management meetings. and all relevant employees will be trained in 2017 Implementation Our Group Ethics Policy states that we are committed to Measurements of outcomes operating within the law of each and every jurisdiction in which we operate and to the highest ethical standards. We recognise that  We had 2 cases of minor internal fraud reported in this can only be achieved with the continued integrity and 2016. We will aim to report zero instances of commitment of our employees. The policy identifies key principles corruption in 2017. that should be adopted by all employees which include not  All businesses submitted their Anti-Bribery and accepting or offering anything of value in the nature of an Corruption risk assessments with no net risks being inducement, facilitation payment or bribe. We will be updating this highlighted as high. policy to further strengthen and align our approach taking into account the new core value of integrity.
