S U STAI NAB I LIT Y R EP O RT 2016 This is Cloetta • A leading confectionery company in the Nordic region, the Netherlands and Italy. Founded • Listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. by the three Cloetta brothers in 1862 . Cloetta’s strengths • Strong brands and market positions. • E xcellent availability in stores enabled by a strong and effective sales and distribution organization. • Good consumer recognition and loyalty. • Innovative product and package development. • Efficient production with high and consistent quality. Vision To be the most admired satisfier of Munchy Moments Mission To bring a smile to your Munchy Moments The vision, together with the goals and strategies, expresses Cloetta’s business concept Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] 2,530 employees in 14 countries. Ljungsbro Helsingborg Dublin Sneek Roosendaal Turnhout Production at Levice 12 factories in Cremona 6 countries. Gordona San Pietro in Casale Silvi Marina Cloetta’s net sales by category Cloetta’s net sales by country Other Sweden Sugar confectionery 17% u t 31% t 54% The Netherlands Nordic 14% u Other countries 43% 57% Other 5% u Italy Nuts 4% u t Chocolate 17% 12% u t Finland Chewing gum 6% p 17% Norway 4% p p Pastilles 14% p Denmark 5% Categories where Cloetta is the market leader Sweden Norway Denmark Netherlands Finland Italy Sugar confectionery Pastilles Pastilles Pastilles Pastilles Seasonal products Chocolate countlines Sugar confectionery Sugar confectionery Sugar confectionery Chewing gum Sweetener Pastilles Chewing gum Sugar confectionery Sugar confectionery Chocolate bags 1 Words f rom the P resident Cloetta continues on Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] the right path Cloetta has performed well in recent years. But as a company, we can never allow ourselves to stand still. We must continuously strive to develop and become better. We have launched an effort to initiate strategic activities that can promote profitable growth. we have been able to continue developing This essentially consists normal development work that is being pursued to adapt to a changing and advancing our business. This is clearly world and live up to the demands of our customers and consumers. With our Munchy Moments visible in the fact that in the past year we strategy we have an excellent platform for realizing new initiatives that drive more profitable achieved both an increase in sales and an growth. improvement in underlying operating profit. Thanks to our positive development in Sustainability work enhanced 2016, we have met our financial target for Cloetta’s goal is to build long-term sustainable the net debt/EBITDA ratio. This means that values by growing as a company while at the same time ensuring that both people and the we now have the financial flexibility for both environment are positively impacted. Cloetta’s acquisitions and dividends, which has been sustainability commitment is focused on three central areas; greater well-being, reduced realized in a proposed 50-per cent increase environmental impact and sustainable sourcing. For all prioritized areas, there are action plans, in the dividend and the recently announced targets and key ratios in place. acquisition of Candyking. Already in 2009 Cloetta joined the United Nations’ Global Compact and ratified its prinInterest, support and appreciation for ciples. Cloetta continues to support the 10 principles in the UN’s Global Compact, which have Cloetta remain powerful among shareholders, been incorporated into Cloetta’s Code of Conduct and thus provide a solid foundation for our customers and consumers, and are key factors sustainability work. behind our successes. This strengthens both In the area of sustainable sourcing, Cloetta has prioritized a number of raw materials. All the employees and myself in the belief that cocoa and chocolate that we purchase are UTZ-certified, which means that we provide opporCloetta is on the right path. Stockholm, March 2017 “I am both proud and delighted that we have been able to deliver Danko Maras Interim President and CEO another outstanding year.” until 14 February 2017 tunities for cocoa growers to develop sustainable farming. We have a policy for palm oil that is aimed at combatting destruction of rainforest and in 2016 we made a decision to change over segregated palm oil according to RSPO (Round Table of Sustainable Palm Oil) principles, thereby improving the traceability of our palm oil. We have also decided to eliminate the amount of palm oil found in Cloetta’s glazes. This means that the vast majority of Cloetta’s products will be free from palm oil by the end of 2017, which is something that many customers and consumers have asked for. Cloetta’s long-term environmental goals extend until 2020. It is therefore highly satisfying that in 2016, just as in 2015, we were able to see that our efforts to reduce the company’s environmental impact are moving in the right direction. Most of our environmentally-related key ratios have improved or are unchanged in relation to earlier years. In order to enhance our communication about sustainability issues, the year’s sustainability report has been reviewed by the auditing firm of KPMG. As it is our ambition to meet international standards, our sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines. Cloetta on the right path I am both proud and delighted that we have been able to deliver another outstanding year for Cloetta. Despite changes in management, during my leadership in the second half of 2016, 2 Long -term sustainability targets Long-term sustainability targets Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Greater well-being Days between occupational accidents (number of days between accidents leading to Complaints, feedback per million sold consumer units Employees >1 day of absence) Days Number The number of days between occupational 30 Goal 2017 8 Goal 2017 >24.3 <5.7 accidents with >1 day of sickness absence 7 will exceed 24.3 days in 2017. 25 Great Place to Work – improved Trust 6 Index compared to the previous survey. 20 5 15 4 Consumers – Complaints/feedback 3 The number of complaints about Cloetta 10 products from consumers will not exceed 2 5.7 ppm (number per million units sold) in 5 1 2017. 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 No artificial colours or flavours Comments on the year’s outcome Comments on the year’s outcome Cloetta is committed to increasing the share After several years with a steady decrease in oc­ The result for 2016 was a clear improvement cupational accidents, the trend was broken in 2016 compared to last year. This was achieved of natural ingredients. Cloetta’s product and the target was not met. A new safety standard through an increased focus on Cloetta´s product portfolio will contain no artificial flavours was therefore drawn up for immediate implementa­ quality management system, which will continue by 2018 at the latest, and no artificial tion in all factories during 2016. This will continue to to be a prioritized area in 2017. colours by 2019. be a priority in 2017. Roosendaal Borchwerf has not been included. Read more on page 14. Reduced environmental impact Energy consumption Waste Carbon dioxide emissions Reduce energy consumption in relation Reduce the volume of waste in relation to the Reduce CO2 emissions from production in to the produced volume (MWh/tonne) by produced volume (kg/tonne) by 25 per cent relation to the produced volume (kg/kg) by 5 per cent by 2020. by 2020. 5 per cent by 2020. Energy consumption Waste Carbon dioxide emissions MWh/prod. tonne Kg/prod. tonne Kg/prod. kg 2.5 Goal 2020 80 Goal 2020 0.40 Goal 2020 <1.83 <49.3 <0.33 70 0.35 2.0 60 0.30 1.5 50 0.25 40 0.20 1.0 30 0.15 20 0.10 0.5 10 0.05 0.0 0 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 CO 2 equivalents are linked to the Group’s The base year for the three 2020 targets is 2014. use of different energy types. Transports are excluded. Sustainable sourcing Responsibility for raw material producers Comments on the year’s outcome w Sustainability programmes will be implemented for all prioritized raw w Sustainability programmes have been materials. implemented for cocoa and palm oil. For w By 2020 at the latest, Cloetta’s suppliers of oils and fats must have a shea butter and raw sugar, sustainability fully traceable pipeline of palm oil fractions back to known plantations. programmes are under development. w 100 per cent of all cocoa and chocolate purchased by Cloetta must be w 100 per cent of the cocoa purchases were UTZ-certified. UTZ-certified. w By the end of 2017, Cloetta will have implemented RSPO-segregated w In 2016 Cloetta decided to improve the palm oil throughout the product portfolio. traceability of the palm oil that is found w By the end of 2017, Cloetta’s glazing agent will be free from palm oil. in parts of the product range and started efforts to formulate a new palm oil policy. 3 Strategies and acti v ities Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Strategies and activities In connection with the merger between Cloetta and Leaf in 2012, the Group formulated its strategies for profitable long-term growth. Since then, net sales have risen by around 26 per cent through both organic and acquisition-driven growth. Cloetta’s adjusted operating profit has increased significantly in recent years. The improvement in earnings is mainly attributable to higher efficiency in the supply chain and good cost control. Strategies Focus on margin expanFocus on cost-efficiency Focus on employee sion and volume growth development • Improve the strong brands with local • Improve internal processes and • Develop Cloetta’s culture based on traditions. systems. the results of the employee survey • Strengthen the strong position in • Improve cost-efficiency. “Great Place to Work”. the Nordic market. • Implement a programme for opera­ • Attract, develop and retain competent • Widen and expand the product tional excellence (“Lean 2020”) in employees. portfolio geographically. the supply chain. • Develop leadership and teamwork. • Launch and acquire new products • Increase breadth in production techand brands. nology to create flexibility in product • Implement strategic pricing. development. 6 Strategies and acti v ities Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] • New vision for the Group 2012 • Merger between Cloetta and Leaf • New Group Management Team • New organization • New financial targets • New strategy 2013 • Factory restructuring programme was carried out • The credit facility was renegotiated and senior secured notes were issued • New vision, mission and values were communicated in the organization 2014 •• Factory restructuring programme was completed Nutisal and The Jelly Bean Factory were acquired • New sustainability goals were formulated 2015 •• Delivered improved profitability with support of LEAN and new ERP system New pick & mix concept and the acquisition of Lonka • The first sustainability programmes for prioritized raw materials was introduced 2016 •• Improved profitability Refinancing Growth Cost-efficiency Sustainability • New pick & mix contracts in Sweden • Operational excellence programme • New targets set for the palm oil that Cloetta uses. and Finland. Lean 2020 in the supply chain. New palm oil policy under development. • Organic sales growth, primarily for • Synergies from the acquisition of • Sustainability report on which limited assurance chocolate and nuts. Lonka. procedures have been performed by external • L onka, which was acquired in July 2015, • Good cost control. auditors. also contributes to acquisition-driven • Refinancing of the existing bank loans • Clear goals set for elimination of artificial growth during first half of the year. and repayment of senior secured notes. colours and flavours. 7 C loetta’ s value chain Cloetta’s value chain Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta’s ambition for creating value is »To bring a smile to your Munchy Moments«. Through innovative product development, efficient purchasing and high-quality production, as well as good relations with the retail trade and marketing that strengthens the brands, Cloetta creates economic value. At the same time, Cloetta strives to have a positive impact on people and the environment. 1 Product development 2 Purchasing 3 Production • Product development is driven by a • Cloetta’s total purchasing costs • Cloetta had 2,530 employees during Value creation combination of consumer needs/prefamounted to SEK 3,607m, of which 2016 and total personnel costs amounterences, innovation and possibilities in SEK 2,152m refers to raw materials ed to SEK 1,304m. the existing production structure. and consumables. Of these, packaging • Cloetta’s 12 factories had 1,825 materials are the largest cost item and employees. account for around 22 per cent. The • During the year, Cloetta produced three main raw materials in terms of 120 thousand tonnes of confectionery, purchasing costs are sugar, cocoa and chewing gum and nuts. milk powder. • A long-term programme, NAFNAC, • Suppliers to Cloetta’s production are Environment Sustainable corporate responsibility is being conducted to offer a portfolio subject to an approval process in which • Development of more energy-efficient of products that contain No Artificial both product safety and corporate processes and lower CO2 emissions. Flavours, No Artificial Colours. In 2016 responsibility are evaluated. • Waste is sent to material recycling and the project resulted in setting of clear • Cloetta promotes sustainable producenergy recovery. goals for elimination of artificial colours tion of prioritized materials: cocoa, • Systematic environmental management and flavours from Cloetta’s product palm oil, cane sugar and shea butter, in all production units. portfolio. read more on pages 24–27. Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) • Focus on personal safety. • OHS activities with systematic monitoring and follow-up. Product Safety • Product safety system. • Focus on measures to prevent serious product complaints. Read more on pages 3 and 16. 8 C loetta’ s value chain Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Investments A large share of the capital that is generated is normally reinvested in operations, for example through investments in activities aimed at strengthening competitiveness and creating long-term value for the Group and its stakeholders. Repayment of borrowings 4 Customers 5 Consumers Loss for the year, • Total net sales amounted to • We satisfy Munchy Moments. SEK –191m SEK 5,852m. Cloetta’s largest • Feedback about complaints and Profit for the year excl. impact of impairment loss customer category is the grocery SEK 403m. viewpoints. retail trade. The service trade is also a very important customer group. Shareholders A certain share of non-restricted equity is distributed to Cloetta’s shareholders in • In general, the customers require • Products of a high quality that are the form of dividends, after the operaBRC or ISO certification. marketed responsibly. tions have been provided with the capital • Unnecessary transport packaging is • Offer consumers a wide range of natural necessary for development. For 2016 avoided and transports are optimized. products. the Board has proposed a dividend of All packaging can be sorted at source. SEK 0.75 per share, equal to a total of SEK 216m, to be paid in 2017. In 2016, SEK 144m was distributed to the shareholders. Economic impact Production and sales of Cloetta’s products generate economic values that benefit the stakeholders. Generated value Distributed value* from customers Creditors, qShareholders 3% financial partners 3% q Employees SEK t 25% 5,852m Other suppliers 28% u Cloetta’s Code of Conduct is the basis for all relationships within and outside p Suppliers of raw materials the company and consumables 41% * Excluding amortization/depreciation and impairment losses, tax income and profit/loss for the year and including paid dividends and net financial items, total SEK 5,229m. 9 C loetta’ s leading brands Cloetta’s leading brands Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta is the name and symbol of the Nordic region’s oldest confectionery company, with a very strong local heritage. Cloetta’s brands fulfil the mission »To bring a smile to your Munchy Moments«. 1981 1960 1941 1836 1976 1909 1920 1951 2007 Year 1934 1937 1965 1878 1913 1928 1949 1956 1977 1922 ® 1975 1998 1938 1953 10 T rends 6 distinct consumer trends Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Genuine raw materials Treating ourselves On-the-go There is a continued interest in natural Many people live stressful lives and need More and more often, we are eating and genuine raw materials. Additives of an occasional break to take a moment outside the home on our way to and from various types and artificially produced for themselves, be happy, enjoy and treat different activities. Greater availability substances are being questioned in favour themselves to something special. and different solutions allow consumers of natural materials. E numbers are being There is also a clear trend towards to satisfy their needs immediately. replaced with the name of the additive in more indulgent and sophisticated prodplain language. Natural sugar or stevia ucts. are preferred over artificial sweeteners. Responsibility for the environment and Health and functional E-commerce and social working conditions confectionery/snacks media gaining importance E-commerce is growing rapidly across all sectors, including the grocery retail trade. Both grocery retailers and food producers are building up their own e-commerce capacity to sell their One key trend is an interest in the effects People are increasingly seeking raw magoods online, and new players are also of food production on the environment terials with positive health effects. capitalizing on the powerful growth of and social conditions. Suppliers and Cloetta’s product range includes online sales. Alongside e-commerce, retailers have responded to consumer denuts, which are rich in vitamins and mindirect communication with consumers mand for information, above all about the erals. Xylitol, which is found in chewing via the social media is emerging as one of raw materials’ origins, quality and cultigum and chewy pastilles, is good for the most important channels for further vation methods by introducing different dental health. developing the brands’ personalities and types of labeling and certification. capturing trends. 11 M arkets Cloetta’s main markets Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta’s main markets are the countries where the Group has its own sales and distribution organization, and consist of Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, Italy, Denmark and Norway. • M  ain markets – countries where Cloetta has a national sales organization. • C  ountries where Cloetta’s products are sold primarily through distribution agreements. Sweden • Share of Cloetta’s sales. 31% Finland Norway 17% 4% Denmark 5% The Netherlands 14% Italy 12% Other markets 17% 12 M arkets Success factors for the sales organization Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] The right products Good relations with Good visibility for to the right customer customers at the central Cloetta’s products and local levels Selling the right products to the right Through good relations with the retail High visibility in stores, and particucustomer generates profitability for both trade and in-depth knowledge of the larly at the checkout stands, is vital for Cloetta and for the customer. Cloetta’s industry, market and products, Cloetta growth in sales. In order to maximize the sales force is large and effective, which can present attractive sales solutions visibility of Cloetta’s products, the sales provides good opportunities for a presthat support each customer’s business force also works actively to increase the ence in many different sales points. objectives. number of display points in the stores. Effective sales campaigns Ensure compliance with Boost sales in cooperation with the central agreements with customers the retail trade Marketing campaigns are typically comThe sales force ensures compliance with By being where consumers are found, it bined with sales promotional activities in central agreements and that the agreed is possible to increase sales. The task for the stores. The sales force helps retailers range of products is found in the stores. Cloetta’s sales organization is to continto display these. uously seek new non-traditional sales points for selected parts of the product range, but also to increase display space and sales in existing stores. 13 S upply chain Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Supply chain At year-end 2016 Cloetta had 12 factories in Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Slovakia and Ireland. Cloetta All in all, Cloetta produced approximately 120 thousand produced approximately tonnes of confectionery in 2016. Cloetta’s supply chain is responsible for production, purchasing, planning, logistics, quality, tech120,000 tonnes of confectionery nology and safety. The top priorities during the year have been to implement and drive the Lean in 2016 2020 programme in order to increase efficiencies and to integrate the factory in Roosendaal, the Netherlands, that came with the acquisition of Lonka. In 2016 the factory in Dieren, the Netherlands, was closed. Production rationalizations and transfers Between 2012 and 2014 Cloetta implemented a factory restructuring programme in which After a couple of years of steady decreases in three factories were closed and production was insourced from third-party suppliers. Moving a occupational injuries, the trend was broken production line is a complex process that requires extensive documentation, careful planning, in 2016 and the target of 28 days between knowledge transfer, technical adaptations and fine-tuning. Added to this, a physical relocation accidents was not met. The number of days of machinery is often required. In total, the restructuring programme meant that 40 per cent of fell from 26 in 2015 to 18.3 in 2016 (between the total volume in the Group was transferred in some way. In 2016 further transfers between the occupational accidents with >1 day of sickness factories were carried out in order to optimize utilization of our factory network. absence). Seven of the accidents took place in At the end of 2016 the factory in Dieren, the Netherlands, was closed as part of the synergy connection with different types of machine programme related to the acquisition of Lonka and its production was transferred to the factory interventions, which is normally prevented in Levice, Slovakia, which has been expanded in connection with this. The transfer has also made through robust LOTO procedures (lockoutit possible to insource additional production to the factory in Levice. tagout). As a result of the accidents, a new safety standard was drawn up for immediate Occupational safety implementation in all factories during 2016. Employee safety is fundamental and is the top priority in every production facility. Continuous This will continue to be a priority in 2017. risk assessments and increased reporting of near misses contribute to greater knowledge about When factories are acquired, the historthe causes of accidents in the workplace, which contributes to making preventative measures an ical data for LTAs is recalculated. For this integral part of day-to-day operations and minimizes the risk for accidents. The key elements of reason, the figures for 2012-2015 may differ these activities are discussions and workshops that are held in the various workplaces to promote from the previously reported outcome. safety awareness and influence behaviour. 14 S upply chain Changes in the production structure 2012–2016 Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] 2012 2016 Gävle Aura Ljungsbro Ljungsbro Alingsås Helsingborg Dublin Sneek Sneek Dieren Roosendaal Roosendaal Turnhout Turnhout Levice Levice Gordona Gordona Cremona Cremona San Pietro in Casale San Pietro in Casale Silvi Marina Silvi Marina Existing factory New factory through acquisition Closed factory Closure of four factories: Acquisition of four factories: Insourcing Alingsås, Sweden in 2012, Aura, Finland in 2012 Nutisal, Helsingborg, Sweden in 2014, The Jelly Insourcing of chewing gum to Sneek, the Nether­ and Gävle, Sweden in 2013. Closure of the factory Bean Factory, Dublin, Ireland, in 2014, Lonka, lands, and Tupla to Ljungsbro, Sweden. in Dieren, the Netherlands, in 2016. Transfer of Roosendaal and Dieren, the Netherlands, in 2015. production from these factories primarily to Levice, Slovakia, and Ljungsbro, Sweden. Management systems Quality and product safety Cloetta has a central management system to Cloetta places rigorous demands on quality ensure standardized working methods in its and product safety. First class raw materials operations. Each production unit has a locally and correct treatment and processing methods adapted management system that is linked to are essential for manufacturing of high quality the central system. Central policies, goals and confectionery. procedures are broken down and implemented Continuous efforts are made to ensure at the factory level. that the products meet the requirements and The management systems cover occuexpectations of consumers and retailers. pational health and safety, quality, product For each product there is a quality specificasafety and the environment. These systems tion describing the required flavour, aroma, are based on international standards (BRC appearance, consistency and package. No azo Global Standard for Food Safety, ISO 14001 food colourings are used in Cloetta’s products. and OHSAS 18001), recurring risk assessAll of Cloetta’s factories are certified ments and continuous improvements. according to the BRC Global Standard for One important aspect of this working Food Safety. BRC is a standard for assurance method is a systematized meeting structure of product safety and quality, and is one of the for monitoring of results against targets, to cornerstones of Cloetta’s quality management. detect both positive and negative deviations. The Group’s product safety work is based Goals and results are visualized for example on the HACCP method (Hazard Analysis on displays in the facilities to provide Critical Control Points). With the help of knowledge about the current situation, which the HACCP method it is possible to analyze contributes to promoting awareness and enpotential risks to the consumer. This provides gagement among the employees. Action can be a basis for steering and control of the entire taken immediately in the event of deviations process, from purchasing of raw materials to and systematic follow-up creates scope for delivery of finished products, in order to elimproactive improvements. inate and minimize all conceivable consumer Read more about Cloetta’s environmental risks. work on pages 30–31. Both the BRC standard and EU food product legislation require traceability of raw materials and products. This traceability has 15 S upply chain Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] been assured and is tested regularly. Cloetta mental requirements. Suppliers to Cloetta to consumer and customer feedback. In case has a detailed action plan to enable rapid recall are evaluated and approved before they are of possible quality defects, Consumer Service of a product from the market if needed. permitted to deliver raw materials to the always contacts the factory in question. The factories. The process varies depending on affected factory then uses the information Planning and logistics the type of supplier and the type of material provided by the consumer to systematically Effective production planning leads to lower delivered. Certain suppliers are physically find the root causes of any defects and thereby capital tied up in the form of inventories of audited at regular intervals by Cloetta. eliminate them. Many of the complaints are both raw materials and finished products, at Cloetta collaborates closely with its largest related to the mixing of products in the bags the same time that it increases the service raw material suppliers, among other things and damaged packaging. level. Delivery reliability is one of the most through automated order and delivery Complaints, feedback per million sold critical parameters for the retail trade. Cloetta processes that are adapted to raw material consumer units has a well developed planning system that consumption in each factory. Number integrates the entire value chain from supplier Cloetta’s range includes products that are 8 Goal 2017 <5.7 to production and final customer. The system produced by other manufacturers. External 7 also integrates financial planning and prices. production is outsourced only to manufacturCloetta works continuously to optimize ers following approval by Cloetta, according 6 its flows and working methods, both internally to the same high quality standards that apply 5 and externally, together with customers and to production in Cloetta’s own factories. Ex4 suppliers. ternal manufacturers are evaluated and tested regularly. 3 Purchasing 2 Cloetta’s largest cost items in production, acConsumer and customer feedback 1 counting for around 60 per cent of total costs, Feedback from individual consumers is are raw materials and packaging. extremely valuable in Cloetta’s pursuit of 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Raw materials are purchased only from continuous improvements. The result for 2016 was a clear improvement suppliers that can be verified against Cloetta’s Each market has a Consumer Service compared to last year. This was achieved through ethical, quality, product, safety and environunit that receives, investigates and responds an increased focus on Cloetta´s product quality management system, which will continue to be a prioritized area in 2017. 16 S upply chain Success factors for production Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Engaged employees Employee safety Flexibility Good communication about processes A safe working environment is a fundaA production line is often used for several and goals creates engaged employees who mental right for each employee. Being different products. Rapid changeovers understand the business and how their and feeling safe on the job is essential in and cleaning are vital for high machine work contributes to the Group’s total order to develop and perform well in the capacity utilization. Flexibility also results. workplace. means that each employee is able to work on more than one line. High and consistent quality Delivery reliability Cost-efficiency The goal is to always deliver safe products Good production planning is decisive for Cloetta’s sales are based on large with the right flavour, appearance and effective production and low warehousing volumes. Cost-efficiency is necessary in consistency according to their respective costs, but also for delivery reliability to order to stay competitive. specifications. the customers. 17 S ustainability Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Sustainability Core values Cloetta has four core values that guide the way of working and acting, both within and outside the company. These core values are Focus, Passion, Teamplay and Pride. Focus Passion is about doing the fundamentals with self-confidence, is about “going the extra mile”, ambition and a “will do” attitude. being positive and having fun. Teamplay Pride is about mutual responsibility, is about being proud of our company, our brands, doing your part and supporting each other. our products and our personal contribution. 18 S ustainability Long-term sustainability Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta’s overall goal for corporate responorder to continuously improve our corporate This means that aside from taking resibility is to build sustainable long-term responsibility work. sponsibility for the aspects that are under the value. For Cloetta, sustainable value is about Cloetta’s goals for 2020 are shown under company’s direct control, Cloetta also takes growing as a company while at the same time the respective headings; Greater well-being, a certain responsibility for indirect aspects ensuring that the people and environments Reduced environmental impact and Sustainoutside of its direct control, i.e. from raw matethat are affected by Cloetta’s operations or able sourcing. rial supplier to the recyclability of the product products are positively impacted. packages. Sustainability every day Steered by Code of Conduct Cloetta’s continuous striving for sustainable Sustainability and Cloetta’s and core values development is daily focused on respect for the overall strategies Cloetta’s work with corporate responsibility employees’ health and development, control of Cloetta’s sustainability commitment supports is steered by the Group’s Code of Conduct. raw materials and first line suppliers, manuand is firmly grounded in the company’s overThe Code of Conduct is a set of guidelines and facturing safe products, handling complaints/ all strategies: principles for the way in which the company returns effectively and reducing the Group’s conducts operations and the employees’ environmental impact. Focus on margin expansion actions in relation to consumers, customers, Measures to achieve day-to-day sustainand volume growth suppliers, shareholders and colleagues. They ability are described in this report within the By creating sustainability programmes for the are based on Cloetta’s core values; Focus, targeted areas, such as product safety in the prioritized raw material groups and communiPassion, Teamplay and Pride. Supply Chain section and efforts to create a cating these programmes on Cloetta’s packaggood working environment in the Employees es, the brands are further strengthened among Long-term undertaking and Production sections. customers and consumers. UTZ-certified Cloetta’s sustainability commitment is a longcocoa and palm oil certified according to the term undertaking. Cloetta has therefore Scope Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)’s form­u lated a number of goals that extend until Cloetta’s sustainability work primarily covers principles are two such examples. 2020. the company’s own operations, meaning However, the journey to a sustainable soCloetta’s direct impact on the environment Focus on cost-efficiency ciety will not end in 2020. Cloetta is therefore and people. However, Cloetta’s commitment Efforts to continuously reduce the company’s working continuously to evaluate the achieved to corporate responsibility is integrated environmental impact go hand in hand with results and improve its working methods in throughout the entire value chain. lower costs. Lower energy use and waste volCloetta’s Code of Conduct From raw materials Cloetta’s commitment to cherished brands to product content Cloetta works with responsibility throughout When it comes to product content and the supply chain, from raw material to finished quality, Cloetta is subject to a number of product. Cloetta supports the relevant ILO national and international laws and rules. conventions and complies with the laws However, Cloetta wishes to take its reand rules in the countries where it conducts sponsibility further and is a forerunner in operations. The same requirements are placed developing the content of the products. For on the suppliers, and in order to become an example, Cloetta is conducting an internal approved supplier to Cloetta, the supplier long-term programme called NAFNAC must undergo an approval process and accept (No Artificial Flavours, No Artificial Cloetta’s general supplier requirements. Colours), which is aimed at offering a portThe Code of Conduct covers the entire folio of products that contain no artificial value chain, from raw material to consumer, Cloetta – every day flavours or colours. and applies to all activities in all markets Cloetta has clearly defined guidelines for and countries where Cloetta is represented. mutual respect and a shared set of core values. Cloetta’s environmental impact The principles in the Code of Conduct are Cloetta has joined the UN Global Compact Systematic environmental management consistent with: and works to promote its ten principles in provides a foundation for Cloetta’s efforts • T he UN’s Declaration of Human Rights the communities and environments where to minimize its environmental impact. • ILO conventions the company conducts business. Cloetta’s environmental work is aimed • Organisation for Economic Co-operation Special emphasis is placed on: at complying with the applicable laws and Development (OECD) guidelines for • Equality and non-discrimination and rules, engaging the employees and multinational enterprises • Freedom of association and collective focusing on continuous improvements in • T he ICC framework for responsible bargaining the environmental area. Cloetta’s foremost marketing of food and beverages • Occupational health and safety environmental impact arises through • European Brand Association • Working hours water and energy consumption, wastewater emissions, waste and transports. 19 S ustainability umes from the factories contribute to greater functions as a spokesman for issues related mental projects driven within the framework Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] cost-efficiency. to corporate responsibility and is responsible of Cloetta’s sustainability work and projects to for identifying prioritized areas, acting as the promote an active and healthy lifestyle. Focus on employee development stakeholders’ link to the management and supCloetta works determinedly to create an porting the implementation of Cloetta’s corpoCommunity engagement attractive workplace for all employees and rate responsibility strategy. Environmental The local commitment to sustainable developpromotes the development of a high-performand occupational health and safety managers ment is aimed at strengthening the surrounding organization by continuously developing are found in all factories. ing community but also Cloetta’s brand both and training its staff, designing competitive within and outside the company. This engageremuneration systems, upholding an inspiring Independent verification ment is mainly focused on consideration to the corporate culture and building a clear corpoand assurance local environment where Cloetta’s production rate identity. Cloetta has commissioned KPMG to make a facilities are based, but can also consist of limited review and assure the sustainability other activities. Cloetta maintains an ongoing Organization for sustainability work report. The independent review focuses on the dialogue with local authorities in the locations The overall strategies for Cloetta’s corporate most significant aspects of sustainability, as where it has factories, as well as with the responsibility work are adopted by the “Group well as assurance that the report satisfies remedia and schools/universities, among others. Management Team” and are controlled and porting criteria in line with Global Reporting monitored through business planning processInitiative (GRI) G4. See page 49. Whistleblower service es at several levels in the company. Ultimate Cloetta’s whistleblower service that gives all responsibility for corporate responsibility lies Cloetta supports Cloetta employees the opportunity to report with Cloetta’s President/CEO. Cloetta is involved in projects primarily in its concerns about conduct that is not in line with Cloetta’s sustainability work is overseen local markets but also takes part in initiatives the company’s values or ethical principles. As by the Director Corporate Responsibility, who at the global level. These can include environa first course of action, Cloetta’s employees are encouraged to contact their manager. If an Strategic components employee feels unable to openly disclose the Policy and prioritized areas Cloetta’s overall strategy and operational policy. Code of Conduct. information, Cloetta offers an opportunity to Responsible marketing. Materiality analysis and Cloetta’s sustain­ report their concerns anonymously. ability commitment. All reports are treated confidentially. Goals and KPIs Overall financial targets. Goals and KPIs have been defined for each part of Cloetta’s sustainability commitment. Personal data relating to violation of laws is Data See entire sustainability report. handled only by key persons or individuals in Management systems, proLean 2020, IFRS. Cloetta’s leadership platform. BRC, ISO 14001, management positions. grammes and certifications UTZ and RSPO. External statutes or initiatives UN Global Compact and other relevant ILO conventions. EWC (European Works Council). Anti-bribery and -corruption policy During 2016 Cloetta adopted a new policy on anti-bribery and -corruption. The policy is closely related to Cloetta’s Code of Conduct and together they intend to ensure compliance with applicable anti-bribery and corruption control principles. The policy applies to all of our activities in all markets and the principles outlined in this document apply to our relationships with employees, customers, consumers, suppliers, competitors, official authorities and Non Governmental Organisations (NGO). The policy summarizes key features of anti-bribery and corruption control principles in order to prevent bribery and corruption within Cloetta. It explains compliance procedures to be followed by all Cloetta employees, along with information about applicable reporting and record keeping, and penalties for non-compliance with the policy. It applies to Cloetta, all of its employees, and all persons engaged to perform work for Cloetta, including temporary agency personnel, contractor personnel, and non-employee agents acting on its behalf. 20 S ustainability Stakeholders and materiality issues Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] The areas that are prioritized in Cloetta’s sustainability commitment have been defined through a materiality analysis. Every year, Cloetta performs a materiality analysis based on the sustainability issues that have been identified in discussions with Cloetta’s stakeholders. Cloetta’s primary stakeholders are customThe issues that are classified as being of Cloetta’s stakeholders ers, consumers, employees, shareholders/ critical importance from both a stakeholder investors, business partners/suppliers and the and impact perspective are those that have local communities. These groups are directly the highest priority for Cloetta. It is these r me org Union critical for Cloetta’s long-term survival. In sustainability issues and areas that are o nsu ations aniz C niz atio a n addition, there are a number of other impordefined in Cloetta’s sustainability org s tant stakeholders. These are shown in the commitment. try s en s Sup t yee pli illustration at right, in the outer circle. Cloetta Go plo er us tion has a continuous, open dialogue above all with Cloetta listens ve m s Ind niza rnm E ga the primary stakeholders based on the expecIn 2016, more and more customers or tations and requirements of each stakeholder and consumers demanded ino m ers Consumers group. creased traceability for the palm ls/ Non-p Schoo s organiz rofit The methodology behind Cloetta’s mateoil that is used in some of Cloetta’s C u st itie riality analysis is aimed at classifying different products. For that reason, Cloetta types of sustainability issues on the basis of made a decision during the year to univers ations Lo two parameters: change over to segregated palm oil s al c er co d • T he stakeholder perspective – i.e. what according to the RSPO’s principles mm ol eh M unity S har m e ol ng importance a specific issue has for Cloetta’s and to replace the small amount of ed kh ha ia c o xc stakeholders. palm oil used in Cloetta’s glaze with St k e • T he impact perspective – i.e. the direct imother vegetable oils. Based on the same Banks/ o c financial st pact a specific issue can have on Cloetta from decision, efforts were also started to formulate players a financial perspective, goodwill, etc. a new long-term palm oil policy. Materiality analysis Very important Fulfil Prioritize • Follow the health-related issues surrounding sugar. • S ocial, environmental and economic challenges in • Follow the health-related issues surrounding artificial developing countries for prioritized raw materials Importance for Cloetta’s stakeholders ingredients. (sustainable sourcing). • L aws and conventions. • E nvironmental impact in Cloetta’s operations. • E mployee safety and well-being. • P roduct safety and quality. Administrate Monitor and supervise • Charity. • Combat corruption and fraud. • Local community engagement. • S ocial, environmental and economic challenges in • Tax issues. countries of origin for other raw materials. • Responsible marketing. • Ensure diversity. Important High Very high Impact on Cloetta 21 S ustainability Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] The stakeholders’ key sustainability issues Stakeholder Key issues – sustainability Communication and cooperation w P roduct safety and quality. w W ith consumers via annual surveys and via websites w C lear declaration of ingredients. and social media. w Eco-friendly packages. w W ith customers through personal customer and sales meetings Customers/ w C loetta takes responsibility for the environment on a tertial basis and via customer surveys, but also collaborative Consumers and working conditions. initiatives for eco-friendly transports. w Ethical issues in general. w Efficient transports to the retail trade. w G ood and stimulating working conditions. w D aily meetings to discuss occupational health and safety w A safe working environment. in the factories. w H ealth and fitness activities. w A nnual performance reviews with all employees. Employees w Ethical issues in general. w S ystematic skills development activities. w G ood financial development for the company. w U p-to-date information provided monthly, e.g. via managers, the intranet and union representatives. w E mployee survey “Great Place to Work” every other year. Shareholders and w S ustainable long-term financial value growth. w A nnual report, website, analyst and investor meetings, interim investors w Ethical issues in general. reports and annual general meeting. w Ethics and business codes in procurement. w C ollaborative projects for sustainability. w Product safety. w A nnual supplier evaluations, sponsorship evaluations and Suppliers w Sustainable long-term development. development projects. w Support of human rights among raw material producers. w C loetta takes responsibility for the environment and working w C ontinuous contact with the local communities/municipalities conditions as far as possible. around Cloetta’s factories with regard to the local environment. w L aws, regulations and standards. w C ontinuous contact with public authorities in areas related to Local communities, w C loetta makes a positive contribution to development of occupational health and safety, environmental and product the public/society society, including the local environment. responsibility, schools and universities. w A nnual audits by Certification bodies for ISO and BRC. w C ontinuous contact with key opinion leaders. 22 S ustainability Sustainability goals Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta has defined three central areas for sustainability work that provide guidance in its sustainability commitment. All prioritized issues related to Cloetta’s sustainability work are encompassed in these three areas. Implement sustainable sourcing Goal By incorporating sustainability and ethical • Sustainability programmes implemented for all prioritized aspects into the company’s purchasing stratraw materials. egy, Cloetta creates a platform for ensuring • By 2020 at the latest, Cloetta’s suppliers of oils and fats must the supply of high quality raw materials to the have a fully traceable pipeline of palm oil fractions back to factories while at the same time improving known plantations. the opportunities for growers in the countries • 100 per cent of all cocoa and chocolate of origin to develop sustainable farming. purchased by Cloetta must be UTZ-certified. • By the end of 2017, Cloetta will have implemented RSPOsegregated palm oil throughout the product portfolio. Read more on 24–27. • By the end of 2017, Cloetta’s glazing agent will be free from palm oil. Reduced environmental impact Goal Systematic environmental management • Reduce energy consumption in relation to the produced provides a foundation for Cloetta’s efforts to volume (MWh/tonne) by 5 per cent by 2020. minimize its environmental impact. Cloetta’s • Reduce the volume of waste in relation to the produced environmental work is governed by the Code volume (kg/tonne) by 25 per cent by 2020. of Conduct, which states that the applicable • Reduce CO2 emissions from production in relation to laws and regulations shall be followed, that the produced volume (kg/kg) by 5 per cent by 2020. Cloetta’s environmental impact shall be minimized and that continuous improvements shall be made in the environmental area. Read more on 30–31. Greater well-being – Employees Greater well-being – Consumers Cloetta is driven by a conviction that value Cloetta’s responsibility for consumer is created by the employees, and that the well-being includes high and consistent ability to attract, retain and develop the best quality, correct and detailed content labeland most competent people is crucial for the ling and responsible marketing. Cloetta also company’s success. It is also of the utmost strives to take responsibility for the consumimportance that the safety of our employees ers’ well-being through an increased number is continuously improved. All of Cloetta’s of natural products. factories adhere to the same mantra: “Safety first”. Goal • Cloetta’s consumers should know that the Goal products are safe and of a high quality. The • T he number of days between occupational number of consumer complaints in 2017 accidents with >1 day of sickness absence will not exceed 5.9 ppm (number per sold Read more on about will exceed 24.3 days in 2017. million). employees on page 32–35 • Great Place to Work – improved Trust • Cloetta is committed to increasing the and about consumers on Index compared to the previous survey share of natural ingredients. Cloetta’s page 28. (2014: 52%). product portfolio will contain no artificial flavours by 2018 at the latest, and no artificial colours by 2019. 23 S ustainability Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Sustainable sourcing Sustainable sourcing in Cloetta’s supply chain is a Evaluation methodology prioritized area. By incorporating sustainability aspects into the company’s purchasing strategy, Cloetta creates In prioritizing Cloetta’s raw materials portfolio, the following aspects have a platform for ensuring the supply of high quality raw been taken into account: materials to the factories while at the same time • W hat are the sustainability challenges improving the opportunities for growers in the countries for each raw material? • W hat types of sustainability initiatives of origin to develop sustainable farming. have been defined? • Is this a strategic raw material for Supplier controls Cloetta? First of all, sustainable sourcing at Cloetta is about having control one step back in the supply • How large are the volumes purchased chain, i.e. to the first line of suppliers. Raw materials are purchased only from suppliers that can by Cloetta? be verified against Cloetta’s requirements for quality, product safety and sustainability, including • W hat scope does Cloetta have to create human rights. Suppliers to Cloetta are evaluated and approved before they are permitted to delivsustainability projects independently? er to the factories. The process varies in relation to the risks, type of supplier involved and which • W hat are the delivery and quality raw material is delivered. Certain suppliers are evaluated and tested by Cloetta’s employees via risks? visits according to an established schedule. Challenges Secondly, sustainable sourcing at Cloetta is about directly addressing different types of social, Cloetta had environmental and economic challenges that are found in the value chain beyond first line suppliers of specific raw material groups. Cloetta’s sustainable sourcing programme is based on a total of external certifications and/or verification according to the guidelines defined in Cloetta’s Code of Conduct. Cloetta has evaluated all raw material groups and prioritized them based on the existing 463 suppliers to sustainability challenges and Cloetta’s opportunities to address these challenges. Cloetta has defined sustainability programmes for a number of raw materials and the longproduction in 2016 term goal is to have sustainability programmes in place for all prioritized raw materials by 2020. 24 S ustainable sourcing Sustainable cocoa farming through UTZ Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cocoa is produced by around 5 million farmers and employs some 40 million people, of whom 70 per cent are found in West Africa, primarily Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire. Challenge: Leads to: at the same time that Through UTZ the cocoa farmers are given • Training in new farming methods. • aging trees • lower yields demand for cocoa • S upport to buy better plants, which leads to •d iseases in the cocoa trees • lower income has been rising higher yields. • reduced soil fertility • lower quality of life steadily for 100 years • U TZ-certified cocoa farmers produce more than growers who are not affiliated with UTZ. Greater knowledge results in UTZ-certified cocoa growers produce more higher quality crops • U TZ-certified cocoa farmers in Cote d’Ivoire Cocoa farmers in Cote d’Ivoire Cocoa farmers in Ghana have higher knowledge levels than those who are not UTZ-certified, and 83% have UTZ-certified UTZ-certified 453 444 shared this knowledge with their families, kg/hectares kg/hectares their employees and others. Not UTZ-certified Not UTZ-certified 329 kg/hectares 405 kg/hectares In Cote d’Ivoire, 98% of UTZ-certified farmers In Cote d’Ivoire, 37% of UTZ-certified farmers say that their cocoa beans meet the cooperatives’ feel that the quality of their cocoa beans has quality standards. improved since joining the UTZ programme. Cloetta has programmes in place for cocoa and tal challenges, of which low productivity on oil. As a result, in April 2014 Cloetta adopted a palm oil. Sugar cane sugar and shea butter are the farms is one of the most critical. Limited new palm oil policy that is aimed at preventing two other prioritized raw materials. knowledge about how to grow high quality destruction of rainforest in the countries of orcocoa in an efficient manner is a root cause igin and increasing the traceability of the palm Sustainable cocoa behind the farmers’ low productivity. The oil that Cloetta uses indirectly. In order to Since 2014 Cloetta buys only sustainable cofarmers are also struggling with aging cocoa take further steps toward traceability, Cloetta coa from UTZ-certified farmers. This means trees and declining soil fertility at the same has worked during 2016 to update the policy that all cocoa and chocolate that is delivered time that they often lack the means to finance from 2014. Read more on the next page. to Cloetta’s factories is UTZ-certified. For investments in new plants, fertilizers, etc. Palm oil is a high-yield crop that is one of Cloetta it is vital to address the challenges the most traded vegetable oils in the world. facing the cocoa growers in West Africa. By UTZ-certified cocoa – for a better future Malaysia and Indonesia account for around switching to sustainable cocoa from UTZWith UTZ-certified cocoa, the growers are 90 per cent of total global palm oil production, certified farmers, Cloetta creates a platform assisted in building a better future with and if cultivated in a sustainable manner it for securing a supply of high quality cocoa to sustainable farming practices. Through the can be an important source of income and the factories while providing better possibiliUTZ programme, they are provided with economic development in these countries. ties for West African cocoa growers to develop training in better farming methods, improved However, there are a number of environsustainable farming. working conditions and sustainable growing. mental and social challenges associated with The farmers are also given support to buy production of palm oil, such as deforestation Sourcing of cocoa better plants. All in all, this generates more in environmentally sensitive areas, that have a West Africa accounts for around 70 per cent income and creates better prospects for the negative impact on the entire ecosystem. of the total global harvest of cocoa beans. individual farmers while better safeguarding Due to the urgency of combating the longThere, cocoa is cultivated by three million the environment. term negative effects of palm oil production, smallholder farmers, and each farm consists To earn UTZ certification the farmer must Cloetta has decided to formulate a sustainof an average of 2–4 hectares of land with an meet strict requirements, which are closely able plan that contributes to preserving the average yield of 1–2 tonnes of cocoa beans per monitored by an independent third party. rainforests for future generations. Conseyear. Local intermediaries then distribute These requirements include better farming quently, in its palm oil policy Cloetta declares the raw materials to the international cocoa methods and farm management, safe and a commitment to not contribute to destruction wholesalers and exporters, after which the healthy working conditions, the abolishment of rainforest. cocoa is sent to Europe. Every year, Cloetta of child labour and protection of the environSome of Cloetta’s products contain small buys approximately 3,000 tonnes of cocoa ment. Read more about UTZ certification at amounts of palm oil. However, Cloetta does in the form of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and www.utz.org. not buy pure palm oil but only oils and fats that cocoa powder from suppliers in Europe. contain derivatives of palm oil to a varying Palm oil extent. Low productivity for cocoa farmers From a sustainability perspective, there are a All palm oil (part of the content in an oil The West African cocoa farmers face a number of problems surrounding cultivation or fat) that was purchased by Cloetta in 2016 number of economic, social and environmenand production of palm oil and palm kernel is covered by GreenPalm certificates in 25 S ustainable sourcing Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Goals for sustainable sourcing Goal 2020 Responsibility for raw material suppliers: • Sustainability programmes implemented for all prioritized raw materials. • By the end of 2020, Cloetta’s suppliers of oils and fats must have a fully traceable pipeline of palm oil fractions back to known plantations. • 100 per cent of the cocoa and chocolate purchased by Cloetta will be UTZ-certified. Outcome 2016 Responsibility for raw material suppliers: • Sustainability programmes for two new raw materials, sugarcane and shea butter, are under development. • Efforts to formulate a new palm oil policy started. • Cloetta decided to change over entirely to RSPO-segregated palm oil and to remove the amount of palm oil used in Cloetta’s glaze. • A ll cocoa that Cloetta purchased was UTZ-certified. accordance with the Roundtable on Sustainfrom sticking together, for example in a bag. will give Cloetta the opportunity to better able Palm Oil (RSPO). Purchases of GreenThis means that the great majority of Cloetta’s understand the challenges found in the sugarPalm certificates in 2016 have not yet been products will be free from palm oil by the end cane industry. audited. This will take place in the spring of of 2017. 2017. This means that for each tonne of palm The reason for this decision is that at presShea butter oil that is used in production, Cloetta pays a ent is difficult to achieve a traceable pipeline Shea butter is a vegetable oil that is found in premium to palm oil producers that work acback to the mills and plantations for the small some of Cloetta’s chocolate products. The oil cording to the RSPO standard. Today, RSPO amount of palm oil contained in the glaze. comes from the nuts of the shea trees that grow is the most widely supported method for wild in central Africa, which are collected achieving sustainable palm oil production. Sugarcane and dried in small villages on the savannah. To address the sustainability challenges found The shea industry has nearly doubled over the Cloetta’s palm oil policy in the sugarcane industry, Cloetta has become past ten years and currently employs around – from 2017 and onwards a member of Bonsucro – a global non-profit 16 million poor rural women in 21 African At the end of 2016 Cloetta decided to update organization that fosters sustainability in the countries. Shea butter is an important ingrediits palm oil policy. One central part of the new sugarcane industry. ent in food products, cosmetics and pharmapolicy is an ambition to improve traceability There are a number of sustainabiliceuticals around the world. back to known mills and plantations. In order ty challenges in the sugarcane industry. But there are a number of major challengto maximise traceability, Cloetta will change Deforestation to prepare the land for new es for the shea industry in Africa. One primary over to 100% RSPO-segregated volumes in sugarcane plantations is one of the most seriproblem is the declining quality of the shea 2017. Unlike GreenPalm certificates, after ous problems, but other problems related to nuts that are collected from year to year. Animplementation Cloetta will be able to guarthe rights of indigenous peoples and the work other problem is that the women who collect antee that only RSPO-certified palm oil is environment also exist. shea nuts have been largely alienated from the found physically in Cloetta’s products. At the Most of the sugar purchased by Cloetta is rest of the market, and are thereby prevented same time, Cloetta will know which mills, and of European origin and comes originally from from receiving adequate compensation for related plantations, the palm oil comes from. sugar beets. As a result of the current market their harvest. Furthermore, the number of Furthermore, Cloetta’s palm oil policy dynamics in Europe, Cloetta also buys sugar shea trees is decreasing continuously, which goes beyond that which is currently required derived from sugarcane. For a long time the indicates lower volumes in the future. in the RSPO standard. By the end of 2017, European sugar market has been regulated, To overcome the sustainability challenges Cloetta’s suppliers must accept Cloetta’s which has made Europe a net importer of in the shea industry, Cloetta has joined the requirement not to permit palm oil extracsugar. Today, Europe imports 3 million tonnes Global Shea Alliance (GSA). The GSA is a tion in primary forest, peatlands, areas with of sugarcane-based sugar annually. non-profit organization that promotes sustainprotected forest or areas where slash and burn With more than 400 members from ability in the shea industry. The GSA’s mission farming is used in plantation operation. 32 countries that represent all parts of the is to design, develop and propose strategies In 2016 a decision was made to replace the delivery chain, Bonsucro is an organization that provide a foundation for a competitive amount of palm oil that is found in Cloetta’s that has the resources to realize its vision: “A and sustainable shea industry worldwide, and glaze. Confectioner’s glaze is used in most sugarcane sector that is continuously improvto support and empower the rural African of Cloetta’s products to create a shiny and ing and verified as sustainable”. In addition to women and their communities. protective surface that prevents the products support Bonsucro’s vision, this membership 26 S ustainable sourcing Sustainable shea through Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Sustainable palm oil through RSPO Global Shea Alliance Where is palm oil produced? Others 15% u Indonesia t 53% Malaysia 32% p Around 85% of all palm oil comes from Malaysia and Indonesia. Others 82% u RSPO-certified palm oil 16 million t 18% women support themselves on shea • N early 2 billion shea trees grow naturally on parklands in 21 African countries, from Senegal to South Sudan. 16 million women in rural How do cultivation and production of palm oil impact communities support themselves by collecting the fresh fruit and the environment? processing the kernels. From the shea kernel, a healthy vegetable oil is In certain regions, cultivation of palm oil has caused and continues to extracted, also known as shea butter. Shea butter is also used in some cause destruction of rain forest. of Cloetta’s chocolate products. • T he GSA’s sustainability programme has been developed in consulta­ 8 principles that growers must respect tion with women’s groups, non-profits, food and cosmetics brands and 1. Commitment to transparency. international suppliers of oils and fats based on four guidelines: 2. Compliance with laws and regulations. 3. Commitment to long-term economic and financial viability. Promote women’s empowerment 4. Use of appropriate best practices by growers and millers. 5. E nvironnmental responsibility and conservation of natural resources Decent working conditions and biodiversity. Development of local communities 6. R esponsible consideration of employees, and of communities and individuals affected by growers and mills. Protection of ecosystems 7. Responsible development of new plantings. 8. Commitment to continuous improvement in key areas of activity. Conservation of the savannah ecosystem is critical to ensure a sustaina­ ble future for the shea industry. What is RSPO-certified palm oil? By respecting eight key principles, it is possible to reduce the negative impacts of palm oil cultivation Read more at: www.globalshea.com on the environment and communities. Bonsucro certifies for sustainable sugarcane production Over 470 800,000 hectares members are certified according to Bonsucro’s standard Worker wages are The average yield on average per certified hectare is 26.5 per cent 3.4% higher than minimum wage higher than for (at farms and mills) non-certified Bonsucro’s global standard for sustainable sugarcane is based on 1. Legal compliance. 2. Biodiversity and environmental impact. 3. Human rights. 4. Production and processing. 5. Continuous improvements. 27 C onsumer wellbeing Responsibility for consumer well-being Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Fewer calories with stevia Nuts – Dental benefits with xylitol loaded with nutrients In order to offer products with a reduced Nuts are a natural source of many vital Production of the sweetener xylitol, calorie content, stevia plays a key role for nutrients and also contain antioxidants. which has fewer calories than natural Cloetta’s products. Stevia is a plant native Cashew nuts are rich in iron, folic acid sugar, was originally started in Finland in to South America whose leaves conand zinc. Peanuts (which are actually the 1970s through extraction from birch tain an intense and natural sweetness. seeds) are rich in protein and contain sap. Xylitol is found in several of Cloetta’s Cloetta uses stevia extract in products high levels of Vitamin B3. Almonds chewing gum products, such as Jenkki, such as Läkerol, chewing gum, Dietor and (which are actually seeds) are rich in Mynthon, DentaFresh and Toy. Dietorelle. Vitamin E and pistachios are very rich in antioxidants. Natural raw materials Clear declaration High quality and of ingredients product safety High quality and product safety are Goody Good Stuff and The Jelly Bean vital in food production and are strictly Factory are two examples where Cloetta adhered to in every step of Cloetta’s has implemented the idea of 100 per cent production processes, from inspection of natural ingredients. All artificial colours raw materials to finished products. First and flavours have been replaced by natuclass raw materials, correct handling ral fruit and plant extracts and all other and processes according to the recipes food additives have been removed. Cloetta works continuously to develop create the right flavour, appearance and New goal as of 2017 increase the share of responsible and clear information about consistency and eliminate any risks to natural ingredients. The aim is for Cloetta’s the contents of the products via packages the consumers. product portfolio to be free from artificial flavours by 2018 and artificial colours by 2019. and the website. Goal and outcome for complaints/returns, see page 16. 28 Cloetta gets involved C onsumer wellbeing Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Läkerol Let’s Talk Läkerol’s language training app “Let’s Talk” to help new arrivals learn Swedish has been downloaded by more than 32,000 people. The goal of Läkerol Let’s Talk is to exemplify the brand and while the same time contributing to integration in Sweden – to Make People Talk for real. Let´s Talk is a language training app from a language is to use it as often as possible in Integrated campaign Läkerol that brings together people who speak everyday life. Many new arrivals to Sweden across different media fluent Swedish with those who need to practice have trouble finding a way to do that, at the Let’s Talk was launched through a major intetheir skills. The app matches users on the basis same time that there are many established grated campaign with a focus on social media of common interests, making it easier to find Swedes who are eager to help. That makes such as Facebook and Instagram, but also topics of conversation. Over 32 ,000 people Let´s Talk an excellent alternative. through mobile, search word and banner ads. have downloaded the app and registered themLäkerol has collaborated with people who The campaign also collaborated with various selves as users since the launch in September have in-depth integrity and credibility when podcast profiles. In addition, the campaign 2016. The share of “teachers” and ”students” it comes to integration issues. These include was supported by more traditional media such is evenly distributed between the app users. stand-up comedian Kristoffer Appelquist as outdoor ads, radio and the daily press. To Around 900,000 chat messages have been and hip hop artist Jason “Timbuktu” Diakité, ensure contact with all target groups in Swesent and a large number of voice and video who has taught Swedish to the world famous den, the campaign was translated to a total of conversations have been held, of which the Egyptian singer Ramy Essam. The ambasseven different languages. longest lasted a full 128 minutes. sadors took part in many different videos to Let’s Talk has helped to make ”Läkerol create attention for Let’s Talk that have been Makes People Talk” relevant in our time, for Language, the fastest path viewed a total of around nine million times on both existing and new consumers. to integration YouTube, Unruly, Facebook and Instagram. Read more about Let’s Talk at Language is one of the fastest and easiest www.lakerol.se/letstalk. The app can be paths to integration, and the best way to learn downloaded from App Store and Google Play. 29 E n v ironmental impact Reduced environmental impact Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] In 2016, the Paris Agreement was signed within the UN’s Central environmental management system Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Paris To ensure the use of a structured and sysAgreement shows a pathway and direction not only for tematic approach to Cloetta’s environmental issues, a decision was made in 2014 to implegovernments but also for companies around the world. ment a central environmental management It also sends a signal that it is urgent we must act now system encompassing the entire Group. to avoid serious climate change for future generations. The goal is to develop and integrate the environmental management system with The focus in Cloetta’s climate change work is on the following areas: Cloetta’s central ERP system. A fully integrat• reduction of greenhouse gases, ed methodology creates better potential to live • increased energy-efficiency, and up to the Code of Conduct and deliver results • reduction of waste. in line with Cloetta’s production policy. At present, our efforts are mainly focused on the Group’s production units. In a longer perspective, Cloetta aims to widen the focus to also include the environmental impact arising from Environmental goals 2020 raw material production. Continuous reduction of the company’s For the current scope, Cloetta has defined goals, strategies and action programmes for the environmental impact is a central component period until 2020. of Cloetta’s sustainability management. One Cloetta works to reduce its environmental impact through systematic environmental manimportant part of this work is the formulation agement. Cloetta complies with the statutory environmental requirements and the Group is not of long-term goals and action programmes party to any environmental disputes. Environmental initiatives are an integral part of Cloetta’s with clearly defined roles and responsibilities operations and environmental aspects are taken into account when making decisions. Frequent in order to meet the targets. For this purpose, evaluation and follow-up of measures increase awareness about the effects of different working Cloetta has defined three long-term envimethods on the environment. ronmental goals that extend until 2020, see graphs below. Environmental work in the factories All of Cloetta’s factories conduct systematic environmental management that includes action Working methods plans and monitoring in a number of different areas. Seven of the 12 factories are certified accordEvery year, Cloetta carries out an assessment ing to the ISO 14001 standard. of environmental aspects to identify the Since 2015, all production units that already have ISO 14001 certification will be added to existing risks and opportunities. Cloetta has Cloetta’s multi-site certificate. The factories that are not yet certified will be added to Cloetta’s an action plan that defines and governs the multi-site certificate successively. activities to be carried out in order to reduce the company’s environmental impact. Energy consumption Waste Carbon dioxide emissions MWh/prod. tonne Kg/prod. tonne Kg/prod. kg 2.5 Goal 2020 80 Goal 2020 0.40 Goal 2020 <1.83 <49.3 <0.33 70 0.35 2.0 60 0.30 1.5 50 0.25 40 0.20 1.0 30 0.15 20 0.10 0.5 10 0.05 0.0 0 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Outcome 2016 Outcome 2016 Outcome 2016 •E  nergy consumption in relation to the produced •T  he volume of waste in relation to the produced • C O 2 emissions in production in relation to the volume increased by 3.1 per cent. volume decreased by 3.0 per cent. produced volume increased by 3.0 per cent. 30 E n v ironmental impact Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Environmental key performance indicators Energy sources 2016 2015 2014 Gas Electricity Total energy consumption, GWh 213 208 209 41% u t 37% Energy consumption per produced tonne, MWh 2.02 1.96 1.98 CO 2 per produced kilo, kg 0.36 0.35 0.36 Wastewater per produced tonne, m 3 2.7 2.9 2.9 COD* per produced tonne, kg 14.1 17.6 16.6 Total Waste per produced tonne, kg 66 67 66 213 GWh Recycled waste, % 83 81 80 For energy consumption, energy consumption per produced tonne and for CO 2, Dublin and Helsingborg are included as of 2014. For wastewater, COD, waste and recycled waste, Dublin and Helsingborg are included as of 2016. Roosendaal Borchwerf is not included in the figures. Oil 3% p p Steam 13% Pellets 2% p p District heating 4% Environmental impact and priorities volume of production-related and other waste. costs and CO2 emissions, Cloetta uses stackaEnvironmental impact in the confectionery A decrease in raw material waste has a positive ble pallets for transports between the factories industry arises among other things from impact on both the environment and the and warehouses. Furthermore, Cloetta chooswater and energy consumption, wastewater Group’s total costs. At present, 83 per cent (81) es transporters that have two-level trailers and emissions, waste and transports. Certain is recycled. The volume of hazardous waste is extra-long bodies and that use a combination environmental effects are also caused by very minor and consists of fluorescent tubes of road/rail/water transports, when possible. coolants, other chemicals, noise and particles. and similar. If viable, without jeopardizing product quality, Outside Cloetta’s direct influence, there is also refrigerated transports are avoided. significant environmental impact connected Emissions to production of raw materials and packaging. Alongside efforts to reduce energy consumpWastewater The priorities for Cloetta’s environmental tion, Cloetta is also working to choose energy The volume of wastewater was 2.7 m3 (2.9) per work have been set based on how the direct types with the smallest possible negative produced tonne. operations impact the environment, the scope impact on the environment. For that reason, In addition to the three prioritized goals, of Cloetta’s impact as a whole, the probability the total amount of energy used is converted Cloetta is working to improve the wastewater of unplanned environmental events occurring, to the amount of CO2 equivalents generated by quality. Cloetta rates this quality among other the requirements of public authorities and the chosen energy types. things in terms of COD (Chemical Oxygen Deother stakeholders and, finally, the extent to In 2016 Cloetta had emissions of 0.36 kg mand), which measures the amount of oxygen which Cloetta can influence development. The CO2 per produced kg (0.35). CO2 emissions consumed in complete chemical decompoprioritized areas for Cloetta’s environmental within scope 1 (direct emissions) amounted sition or organic compounds in water. There work are: to around 21,500 tonnes in 2016, while the are several projects in progress to improve the • energy consumption, corresponding figure for scope 2 (indirect quality of the wastewater. • waste volume, type and recycling, emissions) was 16,500 in 2016. Cloetta pur• reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. chases renewable electricity for some of the Packaging factories, and assumes 0 kg in CO2 emissions The packaging materials must perform several Energy consumption for this power. functions, such as protecting the product on its The Group’s aggregated energy consumption way to the consumer, enabling easy handling during the financial year was 213 GWh (208). Transports of the product and communicating the brand. Since 2014 Cloetta calculates CO2 emissions The most common method for consumer Waste management from transports that Cloetta is responsible packaging is so-called “flexibles”, a material All of Cloetta’s production units pre-sort their for. In 2016, 45 kg of CO2 were released per that can be recycled or incinerated. waste. The goal is to continuously develop produced tonne including Roosendaal (Borchwaste management and reduce the total werf), the Netherlands. To reduce both freight Recycled waste Wastewater COD* % M3/prod tonne Kg/prod tonne 100 3.0 20 2.5 80 15 2.0 60 1.5 10 40 1.0 5 20 0.5 0 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 * C OD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), is a measure of the amount of oxygen consumed in complete chemical decomposition or organic compounds in water. 31 E n v ironmental impact Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Employees Total number of employees in 2016 Cloetta is driven by a conviction that value is created by the employees, and that the ability to attract and retain the best and most competent people is decisive for the 2,530 company’s future. Great place to work Cloetta works determinedly to create an attractive workplace for all employees and promote the development of a high-performing organization by continuously developing and training its staff, designing competitive remuneration systems, upholding an inspiring corporate culture and building a clear corporate identity. Employee survey – Great Place to Work To create an attractive workplace for all employees, it is essential that there is a genuine interest in understanding how the employees see their place of work, i.e. what they appreciate and what they find lacking or are simply dissatisfied with. Great Place to Work® helps organizations in all industries and of all sizes to evaluate and de­ According to Great Place to Work, the best workplaces are built through day-to-day relationvelop their workplace cultures. With the help of ships. From the employees’ perspective, a good workplace is one where you: an employee survey, GPTW offers benchmarks with other workplaces from a base of 10 million • trust the people you work for, employees in 50 countries and approximately • have pride in what you do, and 7,000 organizations worldwide. Cloetta has • enjoy the people you work with. worked with GPTW since 2013. 32 E mployees During the year Cloetta conducted the Relationship between the company the risk for accidents. All incidents and Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] recurring employee survey “Great Place to and the employees injuries are followed up and reported. The Work” in the commercial units. The response Cloetta strives to uphold a relationship of Lean method is used to prevent and reduce rate was high, with 95 per cent of the employmutual respect and trust between the comproduction-related occupational injuries. ees participating, and Cloetta achieved a total pany and its employees. This also steers the Managers are responsible for preventing Trust Index of 73 per cent. Denmark, Norway, company’s way of working with the European occupational illnesses and accidents through the Netherlands, Finland and Sweden all Works Councils, local company councils and monitoring and active measures. Cloetta’s HR have a trust index of between 75–90 per cent. trade unions organizations. Cloetta complies department has developed a tool that makes Sweden, the Netherlands and Finland have with the applicable laws and regulations in it possible, together with managers that have maintained the same high level since the the countries where the Group is active and staff responsibility, to detect early signals that previous survey in 2013. The Trust Index for respects local norms and values. In addition, can be caused by illness and thereby indicate a Norway and Denmark improved by 14 and 11 the Group’s principles are consistent with the risk for long-term sickness absence. percentage points, respectively, to a level of 83 relevant International Labour Organization After several years with a steady decrease and 90 per cent. However, Italy and the Inter(ILO) conventions. in occupational accidents, the trend was national Sales unit (Cloetta’s export business) Cloetta encourages a good balance bebroken in 2016 and the target was not met. A with offices in Italy have had a tougher journey, tween professional and personal life. It is imnew safety standard was therefore drawn up with a lower result than previously, leading to portant to help both men and women combine for immediate implementation in all factories a Trust Index of 50 per cent. the demands of their jobs with responsibility during 2016. This will continue to be a priority for home and family. The Group therefore in 2017. Follow-up supports flexible work arrangements like flexIn 2017 projects will be initiated to highIn 2016 Cloetta analyzed the results of time and part-time hours, when possible. light the importance of maintaining the right “Great Place to Work” for each country and Cloetta’s whistleblower service gives all balance in life. The projects include activities, department in greater detail. In the majority of Cloetta’s employees the opportunity to lectures and training with a focus on exercise, of Cloetta’s teams, the main focus has been report, either anonymously or via a manager, diet and sleep as key components for achieving on improving communication between the concerns about conduct that is not in line with a healthy work/life equilibrium. management and employees, and between dethe company’s values or ethical principles, partments. How we can ensure a good working read more on page 20. Diversity environment despite a high working pace has Cloetta aims to be a workplace where diversity been another focus area in the follow-up. A good and safe working and the different qualities, knowledge and In 2017 the “Great Place to Work” emenvironment skills of all employees are respected regardless ployee survey will be carried out in the supply Efforts to improve and develop the working of gender, religion, ethnic background, age, chain. The target is to improve the Trust index environment are a natural aspect of operationrace and sexual orientation. Questions about compared to the previous survey (2014: 52%). al development and the goal is to create a good whether anyone feels that they have been harTo optimize handling and communication physical working environment and a healthy assed or discriminated against are included in related to the survey and to maintain the working climate where each individual can the employee survey “Great Place to Work”. focus on ongoing improvement initiatives, the feel secure and pursue personal development. survey will be conducted every other year in In production, employee safety is always the the commercial units and every other year in top priority and all of the factories perform the supply chain. continuous risk assessments to minimize Average number of employees and sickness absence The Employees Slovakia Sweden Italy Netherlands Finland Belgium Ireland Norway Denmark Germany Other Total Average number of employees 705 547 423 392 193 102 80 39 36 9 4 2,530 – of whom, women 474 251 171 133 153 22 35 18 19 3 2 1,281 Sickness absence, %, 6.3 5.3 5.0 5.4 1.8 6.5 2.7 7.7 2.0 2.8 0.0 5.2 Employees by country Age distribution Number of employees 800 Slovakia 28% u t Sweden 22% 700 600 500 400 Denmark 1% u Norway 2% u t Italy 17% 300 Ireland 3% u 200 Belgium 4% u 100 Finland 8% p 0 p Netherlands 15% <25 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65> 33 E mployees The right expertise measured, in combination with analysis of the • Visionary Leadership Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta is committed to continuously renewvarious tests and interview material. • People Leadership ing and utilizing the Group’s aggregated exIn 2016 an internal survey was conducted • Entrepreneurial Leadership pertise. Competent employees that are given with questions about why people have chosen • Structured Leadership scope to realize their full potential create the to work at Cloetta and what makes them want • Committed Leadership conditions for Cloetta to maintain its position to stay. People who have been employed by • Trusted Leadership as an attractive and innovative partner not Cloetta for no more than one year were invited Each dimension is briefly described with the only for the employees but also for customers, to take part. The results show that a majorhelp of several competencies and behaviours suppliers and business partners. A learnity of employees feel they have been given that are tied together with Management ing-driven organization that works in project far-reaching personal responsibility and scope Drives. By combining the concepts in Manform and the use of interdisciplinary teamto work independently. agement Drives with Cloetta’s Leadership work in day-to-day activities are important With the help of feedback from the Dimensions, the company has created a set of components of Cloetta’s skills development. internal survey, Cloetta has initiated a joint concepts that show who Cloetta’s employees All skills development is designed to support platform for communication about Employer are and what type of leaders and employees Cloetta’s strategies, to be business-oriented Branding, which will be launched in 2017. Cloetta wants to be. Good leadership is esand to promote the individual’s professional sential in inspiring maximum motivation and interests and needs. Cloetta’s leadership performance in the various teams and is a vital The main focus areas are to develop the As a leader, it is vital that you dare to trust in part in realizing Cloetta’s vision and goals. right people for the right jobs and to continboth your own leadership and in others. It is In 2016 some 65 managers were trained uously clarify and improve roles, responsialso essential to understand each other and in Cloetta’s Leadership Dimensions at the bilities and working methods throughout the why different individuals act differently in central level, where the Group Management organization. In recent years there has been similar situations. Team also took part. In the second half of the a major initiative, primarily in production, For some time Cloetta has worked with year the local rollout continued in a number of to work according to Lean. the leadership tool Management Drives, which countries. In addition to the follow-up carried is based on the use of a questionnaire that out by the managers in their own teams folEmployer branding among other things identifies the drives for lowing the course, several follow-up meetings Cloetta strives to be an attractive employer each employee, what energizes them and what are held for those who have completed the in the markets where the company is active drains them of energy. By using this leadership training. In 2017 the training will continue and thereby retain valuable employees. All tool, both managers and employees are made within the organisation. recruitment takes place locally with the supaware of their own profiles and thereby which port of centrally developed tools that include working methods suit them best. In 2016 the Framework for remuneration both skills tests and self-assessment tests. For company further developed its leadership tool One major factor in how employees perceive all positions, the selection is based on a job through the launch of Cloetta’s Leadership the attractiveness or their workplace is the description with specific set of competencies Dimensions. feeling that they are fairly paid and that there against which the candidates’ performance is Cloetta’s Leadership Dimensions is a well designed salary structure in the Fördelning kvinnor och män 31 december 2016 49 % 51 % Employee categories 31 December 2016 Blue-collar White-collar workers workers 56% 44% 34 E mployees company. decision-making processes Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] For several years Cloetta has been workCloetta has employees in 14 countries who Goals for greater well-being ing closely with one of the major consulting are active in sales and marketing, production, Employees companies to develop an optimized frameinnovation and support functions. Cloetta’s • T he number of days between occupawork and strategy for Cloetta’s remuneration/ head office is located in Stockholm. tional accidents with >1 day of sickness salary structure. All positions at Cloetta have Cloetta is organized according to function absence will exceed 24.3 days in 2017. been evaluated and plotted on a matrix where and its commercial activities are organized comparable jobs are ranked similarly regardseparately from the supply chain organization. • Great Place to Work – the Trust Index less of company or function. This has then Human Resources, finance and administrative will be in line with or exceed the prebeen supplemented with a salary structure units are found in each main market and serve vious year’s high level. In Sweden, the that is benchmarked against other consumer as support functions for both the local sales Netherlands and Finland it was in line goods companies in each country. The results and marketing organization and for producwith the previous year’s high level and provide an excellent basis for upcoming salary tion. Responsibility for business development, in Norway and Denmark it exceeded reviews, where the existing salary level and the corporate communications, business control, the year-earlier level. The country year’s performance are key parameters in the marketing strategies, HR and certain financial that showed a lower score compared to framework that has now been established. activities like tax, financial administration, earlier was Italy. insurance and financial control are handled by Number of employees central staffs. Days between occupational accidents The average number of employees in 2016 was (number of days between accidents leading to 2,530 (2,583). 72 per cent of the employees >1 day of absence) Days are covered by collective agreements. The em30 Goal 2017 >24.3 ployees at Cloetta’s factory in Levice, the only factory not covered by a collective agreement, 25 are instead covered by a separate agreement. Of the average number of employees, 56 per 20 cent are employed under collective agree15 ments and 44 per cent are salaried employees. In production there are certain periods 10 with a higher workload, such as the spring run-up to Easter and the autumn run-up to 5 Christmas, when extra staff is hired. Other areas of operation also use temporary and extra 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 staff. Temporary staff accounted for approx. 9.7 per cent. After two years of steadily decreasing occupational accidents, the trend was broken in 2016 and the target of 28 days was not met. As a result, a new Flat organization for shorter safety standard was drawn up and immediately implemented in all factories during 2016. This will continue to be a priority in 2017. Roosendaal Borchwerf has not been included. Read more on page 14. Cloetta’s HR wheel UPDATE OF JOB DESCRIPTIONS EMPLOYEE EVALUATION and preparations for the upcoming • Individual goals evaluation process • Individual development measures JAN DEC • Employee survey V FE NO B SKILLS DEVELOPMENT TARGET LEVELS ESTABLISHED with a focus on the organization’s OCT MAR challenges for the coming year SEP APR STRATEGIC PLAN SALARY REVIEW AU G AY M JUL SEMI-ANNUAL FOLLOW-UP JUN OF EMPLOYEE EVALUATION MANAGEMENT REVIEW • Succession planning • Identification of new and follow-up of existing talents Cloetta’s HR work follows an annual cycle of activities aimed at building and raising the level of expertise in the organization. Most of the activities in Cloetta’s HR wheel as described apply primarily to salaried employees. 35 Dec Jan Freq uently asked q uestions Frequently asked questions to Cloetta Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Why don’t you sell product X or Y anymore, and to earlier years. However, we have not set a sugar, i.e. the sugar hidden in everyday food do you have any plans to launch product Z? specific timeline for reaching the target. products like breakfast cereal, yoghurt, bread, If we no longer sell a product, this is unfortuetc., and to a certain extent also carbonated nately often due to insufficient demand for the What is your pricing strategy? beverages. The discussion should focus on product in question. In certain cases, it could We adjust our prices based mainly on flucconsumption of these “sugar traps”. Cloetta’s also be because the product’s profitability has tuations in raw material costs and exchange products are among the most honest, since been too low or even negative. The launch of rates. This means that over time, Cloetta will all consumers are aware that they contain new product types can sometimes be difficult hopefully avoid the impact of cost trends for sugar. Furthermore, 30 per cent of Cloetta’s if we lack a brand that can carry them, at the raw materials. Sometimes we also adjust pricproducts are sugar-free. So for those seeking same time that the necessary marketing ines in connection with initiatives such as new an alternative to products with sugar, Cloetta vestments would be so high that they wouldn’t product launches or changes in packages. offers options such as nuts, chewing gum with be profitable. xylitol, pastilles and sugar-free candy. Do you plan to make additional acquisitions, and if so, in which countries? How will you meet your margin target? How big is the risk that various sugar taxes will We aim to pursue acquisitions that are conProfitable growth will contribute to higher be introduced, and how will that affect you? sistent with our Munchy Moments strategy. earnings. Our aim is to grow in line with the In general, we have to reckon with the possibilThis means that we acquire companies with market while at the same time focusing on ity that different countries will both introduce impulse-driven brands that are well suited to growth in pick & mix, where we see good and abolish sugar and confectionery taxes our distribution chain. potential. We can also consider additional from time to time. When different taxes are inacquisitions. We are currently implementing troduced it naturally affects our sales, but only Will you use the strong cash flow for acquisithe Lean 2020 programme in the supply chain tions, to reduce debt or to pay dividends to the to a fairly minor extent since our products are that will help to boost profitability. Furthershareholders? of a type that consumers want, and can afford, more, we are committed to driving profitaIn 2016 we met our targeted net debt/EBITto treat themselves to despite price increases. bility in our past acquisitions. Lastly, we have DA ratio of 2.5x and now feel that we have deployed a joint ERP system throughout the the capacity for both acquisitions and share Why do you use palm oil in your products? Group that will create better conditions for dividends. The dividend payout ratio should Our ambition is to eliminate palm oil from strengthening profitability. be 40 – 60 per cent of net profit. However, we all products with the exception of certain see no reason to reduce the net debt/EBITDA chocolate and fudge products during 2018 at When will you meet your 14 per cent margin ratio to a level much lower than 2.5x. the latest. In those products where there is no target for adjusted operating profit? satisfactory alternative to palm oil, mainly In recent years we have successively strengthHow is Cloetta affected by the ongoing debates chocolate confectionery, we use RSPOened our margin and in 2016 achieved a level about sugar, health and childhood obesity? segregated, GreenPalm-certified palm oil. of 13.0, which is an improvement compared The major challenge in this context is hidden Share price performance during 2016 Closing price, SEK No. of shares, thousands 33.0 12,000 Cloetta B share No. of shares traded, thousands per week 31.5 10,000 30.0 8,000 28.5 6,000 27.0 4,000 25.5 2,000 24.0 0 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC Source: SIX 22 July 15 December 12 April 21 April New loan 8 September Henri de Sauvage 18 February AGM Interim report Q1 agreement Cloetta named Nolting takes up Year-end report 9 March 15 July 24 August “Listed Com­ 27 October duties as Publication annual Interim report Q2 Danko Maras pany of the Interim report Q3 President/CEO on report 2015 appointed as Year” for third 15 February 2017 Interim President/CEO year in a row 36 R isks and risk management Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Risks and risk management Uncertainty about future events is a natural part of all Risk management Effective handling of risks is an integral part business activities. Future events can have a positive of Cloetta’s management and control. Rapid impact on operations through opportunities to create distribution of relevant information is ensured via the company’s management structures increased value, or a negative impact through risks and processes. If possible, risks are eliminated that can have an adverse effect on Cloetta’s business and undesired events are minimized through and results. proactive measures. Alternatively, risks can be transferred for example through insurance or agreements. However, certain risks are not Risks can arise as a result of events or decisions that are beyond Cloetta’s control, but they can possible be eliminated or transferred. These also be an effect of incorrect handling within Cloetta or among its suppliers. are often an active part of business operations. Organization for risk management Risk overview Cloetta’s Board of Directors is responsible to the shareholders for handling the company’s risk In Cloetta’s risk management process, a management. Decisions regarding risks associated with business development and long-term number of risk areas have been identified. strategic planning are prepared and discussed by the Group Management Team and decisions A selection of these and a brief description of are made by the Board of Directors. how each risk area is handled are presented on The Group Management Team continuously reports to the Board of Directors on risk areas the following pages. The Group’s financial risk such as the Group’s financial status and compliance with the Group’s finance policy. The operamanagement is also described in more detail tional risk management that is handled at all levels in the organization is regulated by Cloetta’s in Note 28 in the annual report. Code of Conduct and a number of central policies. Pages 86–87 in the annual report contain a description of the internal control processes Identification of risks and risk assessment aimed at preventing misThe identification of risks and proactive measures to limit them or prevent them from materialstatements in the financial reporting. izing and having a negative impact on operations are of fundamental importance for operations Management of risks in the working and are a central part of every manager’s responsibility at Cloetta. Cloetta works continuously environment is described on pages 14 and 33. to assess and evaluate the risks to which the Group is, and can be, exposed. All events that could affect confidence in Cloetta or lead to operating disturbances are vital to monitor and minimize. This takes place among other things through business intelligence and dialogue with various stakeholders. 37 R isks and risk management Industry and market-related risks Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta works continuously to assess and evaluate the risks to which the Group is, and can be, exposed. Critical external risks are handled both strategically through business and product development and operationally through day-to-day purchasing, sales and marketing activities. Risks Management Probability Impact Financial crises can have a negative impact on consumption From a historical perspective, the confectionery market has patterns. Operations are affected in that Cloetta’s customers been comparatively mildly affected by market downturns are suffering from lower profitability, which leads to price among consumers. This applies to a large extent to Cloetta’s Market climate pressure. products, which most people can afford to buy. To support the customers’ business and promote sound price development, Cloetta cooperates with the customers among other things through in-store sales activities. The confectionery market is highly competitive with several Cloetta competes in the market through active pricing, product major players. Furthermore, grocery retailers offer private innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, labels that compete with certain Cloetta products. This com­ marketing and the ability to predict and satisfy customer petition can limit Cloetta’s opportunities for price increases to preferences. Competition compensate for higher raw material costs. It is important that Cloetta’s products are perceived as provid­ Cloetta may also need to increase its investments in marketing ing the consumers with greater value added than the cheaper and product development in order to maintain or expand its alternatives. market shares. Cloetta strives for effective marketing. The European grocery and service trade has undergone a Cloetta’s strong brands and market position, together with process of consolidation leading to the establishment of large, a strong sales force and close cooperation with the trade, sophisticated players with substantial purchasing power. These contribute to its ability to maintain good relations with the retail Retail trade major players are not necessarily dependent on individual trade. Cloetta also works actively with new sales channels. development brands and can hold back price increases and demand higher investment in marketing initiatives. They can also take over Cloetta has a relatively wide and diversified customer base. In shelf space that is currently used for Cloetta’s products for their 2016, Cloetta’s ten largest customers accounted for around 43 own brands. (40) per cent of the Group’s total sales. Changes in consumer behaviour give rise to both opportunities Health trends have not affected confectionery sales to a great and risks. Health trends and the debate on health, weight and extent, since confectionery is often eaten as a small luxury in sugar can have a negative impact on confectionery consump­ everyday life. Cloetta works continuously to satisfy consumer tion. The health trend has also spurred a growing interest in preferences. In addition, Cloetta has an extensive offering of natural raw materials. sugar-free products and products that promote dental health. Consumer trends In the long-term, Cloetta’s goal is for all products to be free Health In view of rapid globalization, individual consumers are from artificial colours and additives (NAFNAC). Social responsibility more aware of how their consumption patterns affect the environment and social/ethical conditions around the world. Cloetta strives to include supplier codes of conduct in all Consumers want to know more about product origins, manu­ agreements as far as possible, but as an individual company facturing methods and raw materials. Information that Cloetta, Cloetta is unable to influence international development on its or Cloetta’s suppliers, are not taking adequate environmental or own. Cloetta’s goal is to be open and, through cooperation with social responsibility could damage Cloetta’s brand. other confectionery producers and via various organizations, to identify problem areas and contribute to improvements. Cloetta conducts operations through companies in a number of Cloetta continuously assesses legal issues in order to predict countries. New laws, taxes or rules in various markets may lead and prepare its operations for possible changes. The introduc­ to limitations in operations or place new and higher demands. tion of confectionery taxes and fat taxes often has a short-term Laws and taxes There is a risk that Cloetta’s interpretation of the applicable tax impact on sales. laws, tax treaties and regulations in the different countries is not entirely correct or that such rules will be changed, possibly Provisions for legal disputes, tax disputes, etc., are based on with retroactive effect. an estimation of the costs, with the support of legal advice and based on the information that is available. Price development for raw materials is steered mainly by Cloetta continuously monitors the development of raw material supply and demand, and is beyond Cloetta’s control. The prices and all purchasing is carried out through a central prices of sugar and many of the other raw materials purchased purchasing function. To ensure access and price levels, Cloetta by Cloetta are also affected by agro-political decisions in the normally enters into supplier contracts that cover the need for EU regarding quotas, support, subsidies and trade barriers, raw materials for a period of 6–9 months forward. If the aver­ Raw material prices but also by rising living standards and the activity of financial age raw material prices had been 10 per cent higher/lower at 31 investors on the commodities exchanges. December 2016, profit before tax for the year would have been around SEK 150m lower/higher. Cloetta’s policy is to compensate for higher raw material costs by raising prices to its customers. 38 R isks and risk management Operational risks Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Operational risks can often be influenced, for which reason they are normally regulated by policies, guidelines and instructions. Operational risks are part of Cloetta’s day-to-day work and are handled by the operating units. The operational risks include risks related to the brand, relocation of production, insurable risks and environmental, health and safety-related risks. Risks Management Probability Impact Demand for Cloetta’s well known brands is driven by the Cloetta takes a proactive approach to its sustainability respon­ Business ethics and consumers’ association of these with positive values. If Cloetta sibility by implementing a Code of Conduct, ethical guidelines brand risks or any of the Group’s partners takes any measures in conflict and routines. with the values represented by the brands, the Cloetta brands could be damaged. Cloetta uses several raw materials originating from countries As far as possible, Cloetta strives to include supplier codes of with risks regarding the working environment, social conditions conduct in all agreements. and corruption. In addition, political instability can have a nega­ tive impact on costs. Cloetta has evaluated all raw material groups and prioritized them based on the existing sustainability challenges and Cloet­ ta’s opportunities to address these challenges. Sustainability risks in the supply chain Cloetta purchases UTZ-certified cocoa. By the end of 2017, Cloetta will have implemented RSPOsegregated palm oil throughout the product portfolio. By the end of 2017, Cloetta’s glazing agent will be free from palm oil. Handling of food products places high demands on traceability, Cloetta works with first-class raw materials and in accordance hygiene and safety. In a worst-case scenario, inadequate con­ with international quality standards. Analyses through chemical Product safety risks trol can lead to contamination or allergic reactions. Deficiencies and physical tests are performed on both raw materials and in handling of food products can lead to lower confidence in finished products. Issues of importance for product safety are Cloetta and the Group’s brands. gathered in special policies and there are plans for information or product recalls in the event of deficiencies. Assets such as factories and production equipment can be Cloetta has an insurance programme, among other things for seriously damaged, for example in the event of a fire or power property and liability risks, and works systematically to reduce Insurable risks outage. Product recalls can give rise to substantial costs, the risk for incidents and to have robust contingency plans in resulting from both direct costs and of damage to Cloetta’s place to limit the effects of any incidents. reputation. To optimize efficiency, Cloetta continuously monitors capacity Cloetta has an experienced and efficient organization with well Relocation of utilization in production. Moving production from one factory established routines for handling relocation of production lines. production lines to another is a complex process that can result in disruptions and delays in production, which can in turn lead to delivery problems. To a large extent, Cloetta’s future is dependent on its capacity Cloetta endeavors to continue to be an attractive employer. Access to the right to recruit, retain and develop competent senior executives and Employee development and follow-up plans, together with expertise other key staff. market-based and competitive compensation, contribute to Cloetta’s ability to recruit and retain employees. Environmental risks arise mainly through water and energy Cloetta sets environmental requirements for its production and Environmental risks consumption, wastewater emissions, raw material and packag­ regularly monitors the company’s impact on the environment, in ing waste, production waste and transports. addition to conducting systematic efforts to reduce its environ­ mental impact. 39 C orporate gov ernance report Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Corporate governance report The purpose of corporate governance is to ensure that the company is managed as effectively as possible in the interests of the shareholders, but also that Cloetta complies with the applicable rules. Corporate governance is also aimed at creating order and systems for both the Board and the Group Management. By having well defined structures, rules and processes, the Board can ensure that the Group Management and employees are focused on developing the business and thereby creating shareholder value. Cloetta AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited February 2009 and are traded on the Mid Cap pany by exercising the votes attached to their company, with corporate identification numlist since 2 July 2012. However, Cloetta was respective shareholdings. The powers and ber 556308-8144, whose class B shares are originally introduced on the stock exchange in duties of the general meeting are regulated traded on the Mid Cap list of Nasdaq Stock1994 and has since then been listed in a numamong other things by the Swedish Companies holm. The company is domiciled in Ljungsbro, ber of different owner constellations. Act and the Articles of Association. Linköping, and its head office is in Stockholm. The number of shares at 31 December Every shareholder has the right to request 2016 was 288,619,299 of which 278,757,685 that a matter should be taken up at the AGM Framework were of class B and 9,861,614 were of class A. and in such case must submit a written request Cloetta’s corporate governance is regulated Each class B share corresponds to one vote to the Board. In order to be taken up at the by external steering instruments that include and each class A share to ten votes, although AGM, the request must be submitted to the the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish all shares carry equal entitlement to the comBoard no later than seven weeks prior to the Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s pany’s assets and profits. AGM. In accordance with Chapter 7, 32 §, of Rules for Issuers and the Swedish Code of The number of shareholders at 31 Decemthe Swedish Companies Act, all shareholders Corporate Governance, as well as internal ber 2016 was 16,236 (compared to 14,164 at 31 have the right, at a general meeting of sharesteering instruments such as the Articles December 2015). holders, to pose questions to the company of Association, instructions, policies and about the matters that are taken up at the guidelines. meeting and the financial situation of the General meeting In 2016 Cloetta complied with the Code. 2 company and the Group. of shareholders 2016 AGM 1 Shareholders The general meeting of shareholders is The latest AGM was held on 12 April 2016 in Cloetta’s highest decision-making body. At a Stockholm. The AGM was attended by 275 The class B shares in Cloetta AB (publ) have general meeting, all shareholders have the opindividuals representing 59.6 per cent of the been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 16 portunity to exert an influence over the comvotes in the company. The President/CEO, all 40 C orporate gov ernance report Governance structure Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] 1 Shareholders Vote at the general meeting Information Annual General 2 Meeting 7 Auditor3 Elects the auditor Appoints the nomi­ Proposes the Board, auditor and nomi­ nation committee nation committee ahead of next AGM 3 Nomination committee1 Elects the Board of Directors 5 Audit committee Board of Directors2 4 Information The members of the Board are appointed by the AGM. Employee representatives and deputy representatives are appointed by the employee organizations. The 5 Remuneration committee members of the audit and remuneration committees are appointed by the Board. Goals, strategies, policies, External steering instruments Reports, steering instruments, 8 internal control core values, Important external steering instruments that provide the framework for corporate governance are: remuneration structure • The Swedish Companies Act • The Swedish Annual Accounts Act 1 T he nomination committee prepares proposals • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers for decision that are presented to the AGM. The • The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance AGM decides on principles for appointment of the 6 President/CEO nomination committee. Internal steering instruments 2 T he Board installs the committees and appoints Important binding internal control documents include: their members. • The Articles of Association 3 T he auditor is responsible, on behalf of the • The Board’s work plan shareholders, for auditing Cloetta’s annual report, • I nstructions for the President/CEO, The Group the audit committee, the remuneration committee accounts and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President/CEO. Reports to the 6 Management Team and financial reporting Board of Directors and the shareholders. • Policies Board members, the company’s independent • A ppropriation of the earnings of the compa• Fees to the auditor are to be paid according auditor, the chairman of the nomination comny through a dividend of SEK 0.50 per share; to approved account; mittee, the group’s CFO and SVP Corporate • Discharge from liability for the Board of • Re-election of KPMG AB as the company’s Communications and Investor Relations were Directors and President/CEO; auditor to serve for the period until the end of also present at the AGM. The AGM approved • T hat the number of Board members elected the next AGM; the proposals of the Board and the nomination by the AGM shall be seven, with no deputies; • Rules for the nomination committee; committee regarding: • Re-election of sitting Board members • Guidelines for remuneration to the Group • Adoption of the balance sheet and the profit Adriaan Nühn, Mikael Svenfelt, Lottie Management Team; and loss account; Knutson and Mikael Norman. Lilian Fossum • T he implementation of a share-based longBiner, Hans Porat and Camilla Svenfelt were term incentive plan. elected as new Board members. The AGM The complete minutes from the AGM can be Attendance at AGMs/EGMs elected Lilian Fossum Biner as Chairman of viewed at www.cloetta.com. Votes, % 100 the Board. Former Board member Caroline 91.1 Sundewall and Olof Svenfelt resigned in 86.6 3 Nomination committee 80 connection with the AGM. Aside from the 69.4 members elected by the AGM, the employee 63.9 Work of the nomination committee 59.6 organizations PTK and LIVS appointed an 60 The task of the nomination committee is to employee representative and a deputy repre107 174 158 199 275 prepare recommendations to be put before the sentative each to the Board; 40 AGM for decisions regarding election of Board • Board fees were set at SEK 620,000 for the members and the Board Chairman, fees to the Board Chairman and SEK 285,000 for each Board of Directors, remuneration for commit20 of the other Board members elected by the tee work, election of a chairman of the AGM, AGM. Fees for work on the Board comelection of auditors, auditing fees and rules for 0 mittees were set at SEK 100,000 for each 2012* 2013 2014 2015 2016 the nomination committee. member of the audit committee and ● No. of people The Board Chairman presents an annual SEK 50,000 for each member of the remu(shareholders, proxies, assistants and guests) evaluation of the Board’s activities during * Extraordinary general meetings neration committee; the year to the nomination committee, which 41 C orporate gov ernance report provides a basis for the nomination commitappointed by the AGM. methods and efficiency. The Board Chairman Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] tee’s work together with the provisions in the To serve for the period until the end of is responsible for carrying out the evaluation Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the next AGM, to be held on 4 April 2017, the and presenting the results to the nomination Cloetta’s own company-specific requirements. AGM on 12 April 2016 elected Board members committee. The purpose of the evaluation is The nomination committee’s recommenLilian Fossum Biner (Chairman), Lottie to gather the Board members’ views on the dations for election of Board members, Board Knutson, Mikael Norman, Adriaan Nühn, Board’s performance, what measures can be fees and auditors are presented in the notice to Mikael Svenfelt, Hans Porat and Camilla taken to improve the efficiency of board work, attend the AGM and at www.cloetta.com. Svenfelt. In addition, the employee organizaand whether the Board has a well-balanced tion LIVS appointed one employee repremix of competencies. The evaluation provides Composition of the committee sentative to the Board, Lena Grönedal, and valuable input for the nomination committee In accordance with the decision of the AGM, one deputy representative, Shahram Nikpour ahead of the AGM. In 2016 the Chairman Cloetta’s nomination committee shall consist Badr. The employee organization PTK conducted a written survey among all Board of at least four and at most six members. Of appointed one employee representative to the members including the employee representathese, one shall be a representative of the Board, Mikael Ström, and one deputy reptives. The results of the evaluation have been Board and three shall be members appointed resentative, Christina Lönnborn. All Board reported to and discussed by both the Board by the three largest shareholders in terms of members have attended Nasdaq’s stock market and the nomination committee. voting power. The members appointed may training course for board and management. themselves appoint one additional member. The average age of the Board members elected 5 Board committees Of the appointed members, all four are by the AGM was 53 at year-end 2016, and independent in relation to the company and three of the seven are women. For informaAudit committee its Group Management and three are indetion about the Board members’ assignments According to the Swedish Code of Corporate pendent in relation to the company’s largest outside the Group and holdings of shares in Governance, the audit committee shall consist shareholder in terms of voting power. Cloetta, see cloetta.com. of at least three members who are appointed by the Board on a yearly basis. One of the Shareholder proposals Independence of the Board members shall be chairman of the committee. All shareholders have the right to contact the In accordance with the Swedish Code of In 2016 the Board audit committee consisted nomination committee to propose candidates Corporate Governance, the majority of the of members Mikael Norman (chairman), for election to the Board. Proposals shall be Board members elected by the AGM shall be Hans Porat and Adriaan Nühn. Of the audit sent to the chairman of the nomination comindependent in relation to the company and its committee’s three members, all three are mittee by e-mail to nominationcommittee@ Group Management and at least two of these independent in relation to the company and cloetta.com. shall also be independent in relation to the its management and all are independent in company’s major shareholders. Of the Board’s relation to the company’s major shareholders. seven members, all are independent in relation 4 Board of Directors The audit committee is responsible for to the company and its Group Management ensuring the quality of the financial reporting and five are independent in relation to the Work of the Board and the effectiveness of the company’s company’s major shareholders. The primary task of the Board is to serve the internal control and risk management interests of the company and the shareholders, regarding financial reporting. In brief, the The Board’s instructions and policies appoint the President and ensure that the audit committee, without affecting the other On a yearly basis, the Board reviews and company complies with the applicable laws, tasks and responsibilities of the Board, shall adopts a work plan for its own activities and the Articles of Association and the Swedish regularly meet with the company’s auditors to those of the Board’s audit and remuneration Code of Corporate Governance. The Board stay informed about the focus and scope of the committees. The Board also adopts instrucis also responsible for making sure that the audit. The company’s auditor shall be invited tions for the President and instructions for Group is suitably structured so that the financial reporting. Among other things, these Board can optimally exercise its governance regulate the segregation of duties between the Instructions and policies over the subsidiaries and that the company’s Board of Directors, the Board Chairman, the financial accounting, financial management President and the auditor, quorum, conflict of The Board reviews and adopts the following and financial circumstances in general can be instructions and policies on a yearly basis: interest, the work of the committees, internal controlled satisfactorily. • Work plan for the Board and external reporting, routines for notice to • Instructions for the President attend general meetings, Board meetings and • Instructions for financial reporting Composition of the Board • Work plan and instructions for the audit minutes. According to the Articles of Association, committee Cloetta’s Board of Directors shall consist of at • Work plan and instructions for Evaluation of Board performance the remuneration committee least three and at most ten members elected by The performance of the Board is evaluated • Code of Conduct the AGM. The AGM on 12 April 2016 resolved • Corporate Communications and IR policy yearly in order to develop the Board’s working that the Board shall have seven members • Finance policy • HR policy • Insider policy Nomination committee ahead of the 2017 AGM • Insurance policy • Policy for internal control Share of votes at • IT security policy Member Appointed by Independent1 31 Dec. 2016, % • M ergers and acquisitions policy (anonymous reporting of violation of laws, the Code of Olof Svenfelt, Chairman AB Malfors Promotor Yes/No 42.3% Conduct or other rules at Cloetta) John Strömgren Carnegie Fonder Yes/Yes 1.7% • Fraud and whistleblower policy Johan Törnqvist Ulla Håkanson Yes/Yes 1.3% • Anti-bribery and -corruption policy • Trade control policy Lilian Fossum Biner Board of Cloetta AB Yes/Yes 0% 1) I ndependent from the company and its Group Management/from the company’s largest shareholder in terms of voting power 42 C orporate gov ernance report to participate in the meetings of the audit comdecisions and is responsible for ensuring that accounting records and the administration Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] mittee. Once a year, the committee shall meet the work of the Board is evaluated yearly and of the Board of Directors and the President/ without the presence of any member of the that the nomination committee is informed CEO. The auditors’ reporting to the shareGroup Management. In 2016 the committee about the results of this evaluation. holders takes place at the AGM through presheld five meetings. entation of the auditor’s report.The AGM on 12 April 2016 re-elected the certified auditing President/CEO and Remuneration committee 6 firm KPMG AB as the company’s independent Group Management Team The remuneration committee shall have no auditor to serve during the period until the end more than four members who are appointed by of the next AGM. Authorized Public AccountThe President/CEO is appointed by the Board the Board on a yearly basis. One of the memant Tomas Forslund is Auditor in Charge. and supervises operations according to the bers shall be chairman of the committee. The instructions adopted by the Board and is Board’s remuneration committee consists of responsible for day-to-day management of the 8 Financial reporting members Mikael Svenfelt (chairman), Adriaan company and the Group in accordance with Nühn and Lilian Fossum Biner. the Swedish Companies Act. In addition, the Of the remuneration committee’s memThe Board of Directors is responsible for President/CEO, together with the Chairbers, all are independent in relation to the ensuring that the company’s organization is man, decides which matters are to be dealt company and its management. The main tasks structured in such a way that the company’s with at Board meetings. The Board regularly of the remuneration committee are to prepare financial circumstances can be controlled evaluates the President/CEO’s duties and recommendations to the Board for decision on satisfactorily and that external financial inperformance. remuneration principles, remuneration levels formation such as interim reports and annual The President/CEO is responsible for and other terms of employment for the Group reports to the market is prepared in accordensuring that the Board members are supplied Management, to monitor and evaluate proance with the legal requirements, relevant with the necessary information and decision grammes for variable remuneration completed accounting standards and other requirements data and presents reports and proposals at during the year and ongoing programmes to applicable to listed companies. The tasks of Board meetings regarding issues dealt with by Group Management as adopted by the AGM the Board are to oversee the Group’s financial the Group Management Team. The Presiand of the current remuneration structures development, assure the quality of the Group’s dent/CEO regularly informs the Board and and levels in the Group. In 2016 the committee financial reporting and internal control and Chairman about the financial position and held five meetings. regularly monitor and evaluate operations. development of the company and the Group. The task of the audit committee is to Danko Maras has been Interim President/ Board Chairman support the Board in assuring the quality of CEO of Cloetta since 1 September 2016, when The Board Chairman shall be elected by the the company’s financial reporting. However, David Nuutinen resigned at his own request. general meeting of shareholders, and the AGM the audit committee deals not only with the On 15 December 2016 the Board decided on 12 April 2016 elected Lilian Fossum Biner Group’s financial reports and significant to appoint Henri de Sauvage Nolting as Presias Chairman of the Board. The Chairman accounting matters, but also matters related dent/CEO of Cloetta AB. He took up duties on shall supervise the work of the Board and to internal control, compliance, material un15 February 2017. ensure that the Board discharges its duties, certainty in reported values, events after the and has special responsibility for ensuring that balance sheet date, changes in estimates and the work of the Board is well organized and 7 Auditor judgments and other conditions affecting the effectively executed and for monitoring the quality of the financial reports. Group’s development. The Chairman oversees The auditor is elected by the AGM for examiThe President/CEO ensures that the the effective implementation of the Board’s nation of the company’s annual accounts and financial accounting in the group companies is Board meetings in 2016 DECEMBER Extra Board meeting; preparations for decision about the new President/CEO. Scheduled Board meeting; budget/business plan for the coming year, bonus targets, business strategy. FEBRUARY Extra Board meeting; decision to appoint Henri de Sauvage Nolting as the new President/CEO. Scheduled Board meeting; year-end report, draft annual report, matters ahead of the AGM, report JAN DEC from the auditor, incentive schemes. OCTOBER V FE Scheduled Board meeting; interim report NO B for the period from January to September, MARCH Board evaluation, business strategy. Scheduled Board meeting; annual report, OCT MAR notice to attend the AGM. SEPTEMBER APRIL Scheduled Board meeting; visit to Cloetta’s Annual General Meeting office in Oosterhout, review of the commercial SEP APR Statutory meeting; decision on authorized signatories, operations in the Netherlands and visit to the adoption of instructions and policies, election of Lonka factory, adoption of two new policies, the remuneration committee and audit committee, business strategy. AU G AY appointment of a Board representative to the nomi­ M AUGUST JUL nation committee, decision on dates and locations for Extra Board meeting; preparations for the possible JUN the upcoming scheduled Board meetings, the AGM resignation of the President/CEO. and reporting dates Extra Board meeting; Danko Maras is appointed Scheduled Board meeting; refinancing of Cloetta, Interim President/CEO, interim report for the period from January to March. decision on authorized signatories. JUNE JULY Scheduled Board meeting; refinancing of Cloetta. Scheduled Board meeting; interim report for the period from January to June. 43 C orporate gov ernance report carried out in compliance with legal require• Meetings with financial analysts and inveswell they meet the expectations of their key Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] ments and that financial management is contors stakeholders – analysts, investors, business ducted in a satisfactory manner. Cloetta AB’s journalists and job seekers. President/CEO is a member of the boards of Awards for financial communication all operating subsidiaries. Every month, the Aktiespararna and Kanton’s Listed Best reporting about value creation Group prepares a closing of the books that is Company of the Year competition For the third consecutive year, PwC named submitted to the Board and the Group ManIn the autumn of 2016, for the third consecuthe companies listed on Nasdaq Stockholm agement Team. For each upcoming financial tive year, Cloetta was the overall winner in the that have provided the best reporting about year, a profit, balance sheet and investment Listed Company of the Year competition folvalue creation. Cloetta won the prize for budget are prepared for the Group and are lowing wins in the sub-categories Best Annual smaller companies. adopted at the scheduled Board meeting in Report, Best IR Website and an honourable December. mention for Best Interim Report. Additional information External financial information is regularThe annual Listed Company of the Year At www.cloetta.com, information such as the ly provided in the form of: competition, which is arranged by Kanton in following can be found: the Articles of Associ• Interim reports association with the head sponsor Aktiesparaation, the Code of Conduct, information from • Annual report rna, among others, is aimed at promoting previous AGMs and corporate governance • Press releases about important news that are exemplary financial communication among reports from previous years. assessed to have a potential impact on the listed companies and is Sweden’s largest comshare price petition in financial communications and the • Presentations for financial analysts, invesmost comprehensive competition in investor tors and the media on the date of publication relations. of the year-end and interim reports Organization for Nordic Market Awards In the yearly IR Nordic Market Awards survey sustainability work conducted by Regi among all analysts, Danko Maras was named best CFO within Investor The overall strategies for Cloetta’s corpo­ rate responsibility work are adopted by the Relations among all companies on Nasdaq Group Management Team and are controlled Stockholm and Jacob Broberg was named best and monitored through business planning Investor Relations Officer among all Mid-Cap processes at several levels in the company. Ultimate responsibility for corporate respon­ companies on Nasdaq Stockholm. sibility matters lies with Cloetta’s President/ CEO. Webranking by Comprend Cloetta took first place in Comprend’s Cloetta’s sustainability work is overseen by the Director Corporate Responsibility, who Webranking survey among Sweden’s 100 functions as a spokesman for issues related largest listed companies. to corporate responsibility and is responsible Webranking by Comprend is Europe’s Tomas Forslund for identifying prioritized areas, acting as the Auditor in Charge. leading survey of corporate websites and the stakeholders’ link to the management and supporting the implementation of Cloetta’s only global ranking that is based on stakeAuditor for the company since 2015. corporate responsibility strategy. Environ­ holder demands. Every year, Comprend ranks Born in: 1965. mental and occupational health and safety the digital corporate communications of 900 Authorized Public Accountant KPMG AB. managers are found at all of the factories. companies around the world, measuring how Previous auditing assignments: ICA-gruppen, Kinnevik, Systemair, DGC, Tradedoubler, Feelgood Organization President/CEO Finance/IT HR Corporate Corporate Development/M&A Communications & IR Marketing Middle/ Operations Scandinavia Finland International Italy Markets 44 C orporate gov ernance report Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Board of Directors Elected by the AGM Nationality Year elected Born in Chairman Lilian Fossum Biner Swedish 2016 1962 Member Camilla Svenfelt Swedish 2016 1981 Hans Porat Swedish 2016 1955 Lottie Knutson Swedish 2015 1964 Mikael Norman Swedish 2015 1958 Adriaan Nühn Dutch 2012 1953 Mikael Svenfelt Swedish 2008 1966 Group management team Nationality Employeed year Born in Henri de Sauvage Nolting Dutch 2017 1962 Danko Maras Swedish 2010 1963 Jacob Broberg Swedish 2010 1964 Regina Ekström Swedish 2004 1963 Johnny Engman Swedish 2012 1977 Ewald Frenay Dutch 2000 1963 Jacqueline Hoogerbrugge Dutch 2010 1963 Ville Perho Finnish 2004 1979 Lars Påhlson Swedish 2008 1959 Erwin Segers Belgian 2010 1967 Glossary BRC Global Standards for A leading safety and quality certification programme. Many European and global retailers will only consider business with Food Safety suppliers that have been certified according to the BRC Global Standard. Contract manufacturing Manufacturing of external brands, i.e. insourcing production of products from external parties. GRI Global Reporting Initiative A network-based organization whose founders include the UN. GRI has pioneered the development of a framework for the structure and content of sustainability reporting. ICC International Chamber of Commerce. ILO International Labour Organization, United Nations agency dealing with labour issues. ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 International Organization for Standardization. ISO 9001 addresses quality management and ISO 140001 addresses environmental management. OHSAS 18001 International occupational health and safety management system specification. Polyols Sugar alcohols that resemble sugar and are used as sweeteners. Pick & mix concept Cloetta’s range of candy and natural snacks that are picked by the consumers themselves. UTZ Certified standards for sustainable farming with a number of social and environmental criteria. 45 G R I inde x GRI index Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Strategy and Analysis Page G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 2 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization Inside back cover G4-4 Report the primary brands, products and/or services 10 G4-5 Report the location organization’s headquarters 40 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of the countries where the organization has significant operations 1, 12 G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 40 G4-8 Report the markets served 12 G4-9 Report the scale of the reporting organization 1, 8–9 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment type, employment contract, region and gender 33–35 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 35 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 8–9, 24–27, 39 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain 14 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary principle is addressed by the organization 30–31 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses 21, 48 G4-16 List of memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations 48 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 46 G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 21–22, 46 G4-19 List all the material aspects identified 21 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 19, 47 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 19, 47 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports and the reasons for such restatements 47 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in Scope and Aspect Boundaries 47 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 22 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 21–22 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 22 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 23, 38 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided 1 January – 31 December 2016 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 10 March 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Calendar year G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its content 47 G4-32 Report the GRI Content Index in accordance with GRI G4.0 Core requirements and report the reference to the External Assurance Report 20, 46–47 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 49 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees, and Board responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 20, 40–44 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms 18–20 46 G R I inde x Performance indicators Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] GREATER WELL-BEING – SAFE EMPLOYEES WITH GOOD WELL-BEING Working conditions Scope Comments Page G4-DMA Occupational health and safety 14, 18–23, 32–35, and absenteeism 39, 44 G4-LA6 Occupational injuries, lost days, Includes Cloetta ODR, IR, LDR replaced by days 33, 35, 47 and absenteeism between occupational injuries that lead to sick leave and ab­ senteeism. Occupational injuries are not reported by region and gender. Absenteeism is reported by gender G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and break­ The indicator is not reported by 33–35, 45 down of employees by gender and age group minority groups GREATER WELL-BEING – CONSUMERS Product reponsibility 14–23, 28, 39, 44 G4-DMA Customer health and safety 14–17, 28 G4-PR1 Evaluation of products and services with regard Includes Cloetta’s 16 to consumer health and safety customers Own Consumer complaints/returns REDUCED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT – FROM OWN OPERATIONS Environment 18–23, 30–31, 39, 44 G4-DMA Energy consumption, waste and carbon dioxide 3, 30–31 emissions G4-EN3 Energy consumption inside the organization Includes Cloetta 3, 30–31 G4-EN15, Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, Refers to Cloetta and the 30–31 G4-EN16 by weight (Scope 1, Scope 2) supply chain G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Refers to Cloetta’s 30–31 supply chain G4-EN23 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal No detailed information about 30–31 method disposal method. Reported in percentage, not weight. Own Recyling of materials 30–31 G4-EN30 Transports Refers to transports within Reported only in kg CO 2 per Cloetta’s supply chain transported tonne. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING 15–27, 39, 44 Human rights G4-DMA Supplier human rights assessment 24 G4-HR 10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Refers to Cloetta’s suppliers No percentage available. 25–27 screened using human rights criteria Own Results of sustainability programmes for Refers to Cloetta’s suppliers prioritized raw materials ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 18–21, 40–44 Economic performance G4-DMA Economic performance 9 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Refers to Cloetta and 9 distributed external stakeholders Cloetta reports in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) G4-EN2 has been replaced by the own indicator “Recycling of materials”, since Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, G4, Core. Cloetta’s sustainability reporting the volume of hazardous waste is immaterial. A new indicator is “Results of covers all of its operations unless otherwise stated. The most recent sustainabili­ sustainability programmes for prioritized raw materials”. ty report was presented on 10 March 2016. The table of contents above contains all standard disclosures and those indicators that have been identified as the Contact for most relevant in view of Cloetta’s long-term sustainability targets. The indicators sustainability and other contents of the sustainability report have been selected based on information Cloetta’s materiality analysis on page 21. The focus of Cloetta’s sustainability Thomas Wiesgickl work and therefore also the reporting is on the well-being of employees and consumers, reduced environmental impact and sustainable sourcing. The key Director Corporate Responsibility and Special Sales performance indicators have been collected with the help of internal reporting systems. Cloetta’s sustainability report has not been reviewed by an external Telephone: +46 73 026 16 33 party, see page 49. E-mail: Compared to the reports for earlier years, the indicators G4-PR2 and PR4 thomas.wiesgickl@cloetta.se have been replaced by Cloetta’s own indicator “Consumer complaints/returns”. 47 M emberships Membership of organizations Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta is active in a number of collaborative initiatives aimed at promoting more sustainable cultivation of raw materials and improving the conditions for growers in developing countries. The following collaborations are the most important. World Cocoa Foundation Round Table on Caobisco (WCF) Sustainable Palm Oil • T he World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) • C aobisco (Chocolate, Biscuit & Confec­ • T he Round Table on Sustainable Palm manages a range of programmes aimed tionery Industries of the EU) supports Oil (RSPO) is committed to promoting at increasing the cocoa farmers’ incomes International Cocoa Initiatives, for exam­ the growth and use of sustainable palm and promoting sustainable cultivation. ple through the development of control oil worldwide. Examples of initiatives include teacher and certification systems for cocoa training programmes, training in cocoa production. processing, micro loans for cocoa grow­ ers and health-related issues. UN Global Compact UTZ Bonsucro • T he UN’s Global Compact is a strategic • U TZ Certified stands for sustainable • W ith more than 400 members from policy initiative for businesses that are farming and better opportunities for 32 countries that represent all parts committed to aligning their operations farmers, their families and our planet. of the delivery chain, Bonsucro is an and strategies with ten universally ac­ The UTZ programme enables farmers organization that has the resources to cepted principles in the areas of human to learn better farming methods and to realize its vision: “A sugarcane sector rights, labour environment and anti-cor­ improve their working conditions and that is continuously improving and ruption. the environment. verified as sustainable”. Global Shea Alliance • T he GSA is a nonprofit organization that promotes sustainability in the shea industry. The GSA’s mission is to design, develop and propose strategies that pro­ vide a foundation for a competitive and sustainable shea industry worldwide, and to support and empower the rural African women and their communities. Industry organisations • A IDI (Italian Confectionery Industry). • D I (Danish Chocolate and Confectionery • I BC (Italian Branded Products Industry). Industries). • B ord Bia, Irish Food Board, • I SA (International Sweeteners Association), (Irish industry association). • E TL (Finnish Food Industries’ Federation). Italy. • C hokofa is a Swedish industry association. • F FNLI (The Dutch Food Industry Federa­ • V BZ (Association of the Dutch Bakery and tion). Confectionery Industry), the Netherlands. • C hoprabisco, Belgium. • H SH (The Federation of Norwegian Commercial and Service Enterprises). 48 A ssurance R eport Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Cloetta [ A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 ] Cloetta AB (publ) Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To Cloetta AB (publ) Introduction and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. We have been engaged by the executive management of Cloetta AB The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Cloetta’s Susin nature from, and are less in scope than for, a reasonable assurance tainability Report for the year 2016. Cloetta has defined the scope of the engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Sustainability Report on the inside cover in the Annual and SustainaAuditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. The firm bility Report 2016. applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance the Executive Management for the Sustainability Report with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible and regulatory requirements. Consequently, the procedures performed for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all applicable criteria, as explained on page 47 in the Annual and Sustainsignificant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance ability Report 2016, that are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that conclusion. are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board and calculation principles that the Company has developed. This reof Directors and the Executive Management as described above. We sponsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparaconsider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability tion of a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, Report. whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Responsibilities of the auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability ReConclusion port based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainabilwith RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A ity Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive Manageof persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, ment. Stockholm, 8 March 2017 KPMG AB Tomas Forslund Torbjörn Westman Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 49 Cloetta, founded in 1862, is a leading confectionery company in the Nordic region, the Netherlands and Italy. In total, Cloetta products are sold in more than 50 countries worldwide. Cloetta owns some of the strongest brands on the market, such as Läkerol, Cloetta, Jenkki, Kexchoklad, Malaco, Sportlife, Saila, Red Band and Sperlari. Cloetta has 12 production units in six countries. Cloetta’s class B shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm. Cloetta AB (publ) • Corp. ID no. 556308-8144 • Kista Science Tower, SE-164 51 Kista, Sweden. Tel +46 8-52 72 88 00 • www.cloetta.com
