MAKING A DIFFERENCE CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MAKING A DIFFERENCE TABLE OF CONTENTS OUR COMPANY 12 CUSTOMERS 16 ENVIRONMENT 20 PEOPLE 28 COMMUNITIES 36 Specialty fluids laboratory in Aberdeen, United Kingdom. 3 A MESSAGE FROM THE CEO SEAN D. KEOHANE President and Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to share Cabot Corporation’s 2016 Sustainability Report with you. Carbon black manufacturing in Valmez, Czech Republic. 2016 marked not only the launch of a new vision and strategy for our company, but we also enhanced our approach to sustainability. We conducted an extensive materiality assessment that enabled the reevaluation of those areas of sustainability that are most important to Cabot. This effort, which included outreach to customers, investors and our employees around the globe, helped us confirm our priorities and sharpen our focus. It also pushed us to look beyond our operational footprint into the value chain, where we believe there are many opportunities to partner with our customers and suppliers in order to make a difference. Society is demanding more from companies in this area and, in turn, we are demanding more of ourselves. We have a unique opportunity to demonstrate Carbon black manufacturing in Ravenna, Italy. our leadership, improve our connection with our customers and, ultimately, outperform our competition by developing products that are needed to enhance the performance and efficiency of our customers’ applications. These products and our application innovation address complex global sustainability challenges Our sustainability efforts are guided by our core values of integrity, such as improved battery performance, lighter automotive materials, superior tire respect, excellence and responsibility. durability, and clean air and water. This is an exciting time for us as we find new ways to improve our own performance while delivering game-changing solutions to our customers for a more sustainable future. We believe that integrating sustainability into our business agenda will greatly enhance our ability to deliver superior solutions. As we move forward, we are working to enhance our level of collaboration with our suppliers in an effort to ABOUT THIS REPORT address shared sustainability challenges. Our sustainability efforts are guided by our core values of integrity, respect, Cabot publishes sustainability reports conforming to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) excellence and responsibility and we depend on our team of highly skilled and dedicated employees to help us focus sustainability reporting framework on a biennial cycle, with update reports in the alternating * on those aspects of sustainability that are most material to our business. As a responsible corporate citizen, we strive years. Our last sustainability update report was published in June of 2016. GRI 102-12 to continuously improve our performance in the areas of environmental, social and economic commitments through the GRI 102-46 delivery of superior products, flawless operations and active engagement with our stakeholders. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Additionally, GRI 102-50 this report serves as our annual Communication on Progress in support of our commitment to GRI 102-51 I invite you to review the following pages to discover the many examples of our sustainability progress over the past year the United Nations Global Compact. GRI 102-52 and to learn more about our goals for the coming years. Our sustainability program is a source of pride for me and all of GRI 102-54 my Cabot colleagues. It underscores our core values and our ambitions to positively impact the markets we serve, the Data and information covered in this report represent our performance across all significant GRI 102-56 communities where we operate and the lives of all of our employees. The report also reaffirms our commitment to the Cabot locations for which the Company has operational control and majority ownership during Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, environment, labor and anti-corruption. the 2016 calendar year, with the exception of financial data which reflects the Company’s 2016 I’m thrilled to share our story of how together, we are taking the next step on our sustainability journey and collectively, fiscal year (October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016). To ensure the highest level of data making a difference. integrity, we maintain databases for safety and environmental incident tracking, greenhouse gas emissions, finance and human resources. This data is collected, analyzed and reviewed by Thank you, subject-matter experts within the organization and in the case of our greenhouse gas emissions, this data undergoes biennial verification by an independent third-party. Most recently, this data was verified according to the ISO-14064-3:2006(E) Specifications with Guidance for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions in June 2017 for our 2015 and 2016 data. * Throughout this report, sidebar navigation showcases how Cabot has implemented the GRI Standards. Each marker is numbered according to the relevant GRI General Disclosure or Topic-Specific Disclosure. The GRI Content Index (p. 42) provides a comprehensive list of all GRI disclosures deemed material to Cabot. 4 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 DETERMINING WHAT IS MATERIAL Linking Material Topics The topics that were deemed most material in the assessment are important beyond the scope In keeping with the reporting framework of the new GRI Standards including its Reporting GRI 102-47 of our value chain, which is easily seen when mapping these topics to the United Nations’ Principles, we took a closer look at what sustainability topics are most important to our business GRI 102-46 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs set forth 17 targets for all organizations and stakeholders’ interests. This was done through a comprehensive materiality assessment in and governments to work toward. We believe our renewed sustainability strategy, based on which a broad range of sustainability-related topics were evaluated for their relative significance our recent materiality assessment, will help us make valuable contributions to many of these and our ability to positively influence our value chain. The assessment involved nearly 300 important collective goals. individuals from internal and external stakeholder groups who shared their perspectives. The groups represented diverse experiences across a wide variety of functions, all our business segments and each region where we operate. This process not only aided us in keeping the content of this report focused on our readers’ HIGHLY MATERIAL TOPICS Mapping to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals interests, but it has also granted valuable insight into how we can refocus the vision for our sustainability program. In the majority of instances, the results of the materiality assessment Occupational Health & Safety did not differ significantly from the sustainability topics that were already being addressed; however, we can now move forward with confidence that we are focusing our efforts in the right areas. This will aid in the development of strategic plans to improve our management practices Environmental Compliance and performance. Economic Value Generated & Distributed One notable topic that was recognized through the materiality assessment as highly material was our suppliers’ sustainability impact. As a resource-intensive manufacturing company, GRI 102-9 GRI 102-49 Emissions we recognize that environmental and social impacts may also result from the activities and products of our suppliers in addition to our own. As a result, we are in the initial stages of GRI 103-1 developing a management approach to our suppliers’ sustainability. We expect this effort to GRI 103-2 Energy GRI 308-1 build on recent measures to improve the tracking of our top-tier suppliers’ commitment to our GRI 414-1 Supplier Code of Conduct and in the coming year, we will review relevant benchmarks and best Product Sustainability practices to help guide our next steps. We see this as an opportunity to expand our influence and engage suppliers to improve their environmental and social performance. Employee Retention, Diversity & Development Waste & Spills Community Engagement Suppliers’ Sustainability Water STAKEHOLDERS’ INTERESTS BUSINESS IMPACT 6 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 Making progress in the areas of these material sustainability topics will also help We will also continue to engage with our key stakeholder groups on our material GRI 102-12 GRI 102-40 us in our commitment as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. topics. We understand our success depends on meaningful engagements with each GRI 102-42 of these groups and we diligently work to ensure their respective needs are being GRI 102-43 met to the best extent possible. GRI 102-44 Stakeholders Types of Engagement Key Topics Performance, sustainability, satisfaction Surveys, technical information, exchanges, Customers plant visits, complaint resolution surveys, technical solutions, production plans, safety data sheets ENVIRONMENT LABOR HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION Annual report, quarterly disclosures, Performance, strategy, execution, material Investors sustainability report, annual meeting disclosures, sustainability Meetings, executive briefings, training Performance, strategic initiatives and vision, Employees sessions, surveys, regular intranet policy and structure, benefits and compensation, ENVIRONMENT We are regularly looking for opportunities to reduce our HUMAN RIGHTS Our employees are our communication safety data sheets, sustainability environmental impact through efficiency and optimization initiatives. Many most valuable asset, so meeting their Plant visits, training sessions, technical Compliance reporting, problem solving, of our efforts are guided by our environmental goals for the reduction of most basic needs and respecting their Regulators information, exchanges, inspections technical information energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions, human rights is a standard across sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions and waste disposal. These goals have a all of our operations and regions. We Plant visits, open house events, Plant operations, emergency response planning, target year of 2025 and we are making progress compared to our baseline strive to go far beyond meeting these Communities community events, sponsorships, compliance programs, emissions, community years. All facilities monitor these metrics and are expected to support these civic rights by offering our employees engagement programs sponsorships, local engagement corporate goals. Moving forward, we will look for additional opportunities a fulfilling place to work. Still, we felt based on the results of the recently completed materiality assessment. it was important to document our position on human rights in a policy which was introduced in the spring of 2016. This Human Rights Policy LABOR Keeping employees safe and treated fairly is of the utmost captures the practices that we have importance to Cabot as we drive to reach zero injuries. We have no been adhering to for many years, and tolerance for discrimination and strive to foster a culture of respect for helps our employees and partners each other and our individual differences. We recognize the value of a clearly understand our expectations workforce rich in diversity as it provides a broad spectrum of backgrounds of them. As we look to gain more and experiences that drive more productive collaboration. We constantly insight into our supply chain, we also look for ways to make Cabot an even better place to work and in 2016 we plan to implement the use of our new piloted a company-wide employee engagement survey that will be rolled Human Rights Policy through our out globally in 2017. engagements with suppliers. ANTI-CORRUPTION Upholding a strong sense of responsibility and ethics is deeply embedded in how we do business. All forms of corruption including bribes, kickbacks and improper payments are explicitly prohibited. All employees are required to undergo training annually to ensure that they understand and adhere to our Code of Business Ethics and are able to identify circumstances that could pose a compliance risk. We also conduct additional focused trainings on anti-corruption for employees with certain roles and responsibilities. Our International Anti-Corruption Compliance Manual provides further guidance on how to comply with our high ethical standards and what due diligence measures are required prior to engaging third parties who will act on Cabot’s behalf. Our Office of Compliance oversees Cabot’s compliance with laws and regulations, the Code of Business Ethics and other Cabot policies. The Office also reviews matters of potential noncompliance and recommends management actions to address any misconduct or noncompliance. Activated carbon shared service center in Amersfoort, the Netherlands. 8 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 HIGHLIGHTING OUR PROGRESS MARTIN J. O’NEILL Senior Vice President Safety, Health and Environment TOTAL RECORDABLE PROCESS Thank you for your interest in our 2016 Sustainability Report. This year, we SAFETY INCIDENTS SAFETY INCIDENTS reexamined our sustainability program to ensure we focus our efforts in areas that are most relevant to our business and allow us to make a difference in our communities and the environment. With the support of many of our key stakeholders, we conducted an extensive materiality assessment, which affirmed MILLION IN CHARITABLE 17% 50% that our sustainability efforts to date are valued. It also shed light on areas that we must develop further. I look forward to utilizing the learnings from the materiality DONATIONS assessment to accelerate our progress in sustainability and uncover more opportunities to integrate sustainability initiatives into our business. The business climate was filled with optimism and opportunities in 2016. We continued to focus on keeping our people safe, working with our customers to develop solutions for a more sustainable future, reducing our environmental footprint and giving back to our communities. We diligently work to maintain some of the best safety standards in the industry. To that end, we have taken positive steps to improve the training of our frontline We are specifically focused on finding opportunities to meet our environmental supervisors that help them execute their work safely each and every day. As goals while optimizing our operations and enhancing efficiency. a result, the total number of recordable safety incidents decreased by 17% while our total recordable incident rate decreased by 10% since 2015 and remains well below the industry average. We also had a 50% drop in process safety events as a result of our efforts aimed at improving plant and equipment reliability. In executing our new corporate strategy, we are specifically focused on finding opportunities to meet our environmental goals while optimizing our operations and enhancing efficiency. In some respects, the challenges we faced from increased production in 2016 affected our ability to make progress on some of our environmental metrics on a year-overyear basis. However, we continue to make progress against our long-term objectives and I remain encouraged that we will be able to achieve our 2025 goals. We continue to invest in our operations to increase efficiency and reduce our overall impact. I expect that we will continue to realize positive results from these investments. We also look forward to making more important contributions in a number of our customers’ products that are propelling us all into a more sustainable future. Finally, an element of our sustainability program that runs deep in our culture is engagement with the communities where we operate. At every one of our facilities, we strive to be a good neighbor and find ways to make a positive impact in our Cabot team runs for charity on communities. Through our collective philanthropy efforts, Cabot has contributed over $1.6 million in charitable donations Thompson Island, Boston, MA, USA. that make a difference. I hope you find this report helpful in better understanding our commitments, accomplishments and plans for continually improving our sustainability performance. I would like to invite you to share your feedback after reading our report and thank you for your interest in Cabot. Best regards, Activated carbon laboratory Specialty fluids facility in in Marshall, Texas, USA. Aberdeen, United Kingdom. 10 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 OUR COMPANY As a global specialty chemicals and performance materials company, we build on our OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS GRI 102-2 market leadership by collaborating with customers across a broad range of industries such as transportation, infrastructure, environment and consumer goods to address Performance Chemicals important needs in key applications. We are committed to improving product Specialty Carbons and Formulations; Metal Oxides performance, conducting our operations responsibly, focusing on our customers Specialty additives that enable performance in: plastics, wire and cable, toners, coatings, adhesives and sealants, electronics, batteries, inks, inkjet printing, and innovating for the future. Our commitment to innovation is driven by a passion composites, silicones, building construction materials, industrial insulation to advance our customers’ businesses through our deep understanding of their industries and the global trends that impact their operations. Reinforcement Materials Rubber Blacks; Elastomer Composites Our global network consists of approximately 4,300 employees and 44 manufacturing Carbon black to reinforce and optimize the performance of rubber products GRI 102-7 including: tires, hoses, belts, molded goods facilities across 21 countries. All are joined by our commitment and continued GRI 102-10 dedication to safety, health and environmental leadership and progress. Since our last sustainability report, the scope of our operations was impacted by the closure Specialty Fluids Cesium Formate Brines; Fine Cesium Chemicals of our carbon black facility in Merak, Indonesia in January 2016. This difficult decision Advanced cesium products for use in: oil and gas well drilling and completion was driven by a need to consolidate production in Asia to remain competitive and fluids, catalysts, titanium dioxide, glass, brazing fluxes meet market demands. Spurred by similar market demands, we announced a joint venture agreement with Hengyecheng Silicone Co. (HYC) in September 20161, and will Purification Solutions break ground on a state-of-the-art fumed silica manufacturing facility in Wuhai, China Activated Carbon Activated carbon for purification in various applications including: air and water, in June 2017. Through this partnership, we will be better positioned to meet increased food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, catalysts demands for our high-quality, high-performance fumed silica for use in growth markets such as automotive, construction and renewable energy. OUR INDUSTRIES GRI 102-2 OUR LOCATIONS GRI 102-4 GRI 102-6 NORTH AMERICA EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC Consumer Environment Canada & AFRICA (EMEA) (APAC) Our performance solutions We believe that a Mexico Belgium China United States Czech Republic India are an essential part of sustainable future France Indonesia modern-day life. is possible. SOUTH AMERICA Germany Japan Argentina Italy Malaysia Brazil Latvia Singapore Transportation Infrastructure Colombia Norway Switzerland We help manufacturers We provide eco-friendly the Netherlands improve the performance, products that address United Arab Emirates safety and lifespan of vehicles tomorrow’s challenges United Kingdom and their components. today. 1 A  lthough the agreement was confirmed in 2016, production is not slated to begin until 2019 so performance data associated with this facility has not been included in the data presented in this report. 12 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 OUR COMPANY OUR COMPANY REFRESHED CORPORATE VISION ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND STRATEGY As a publicly traded company, one of our core objectives is to deliver sustained and attractive total shareholder return through our product sales across the globe. During our 2016 fiscal year, GRI 102-7 Recently, we reviewed our vision and corporate strategy to ensure GRI 103-1 we generated $2.4 billion in revenue. This strong performance allows us to not only contribute that we are focused on the right things and have a clear direction for GRI 201-1 to a healthy economy, but also cascade our value by providing fair wages to employees and the future. We set out to define a new vision and strategy that would GRI 201-2 offering charitable contributions to the communities in which we operate. make Cabot a more successful and sustainable company grounded in our shared values of excellence, integrity, respect and responsibility. VISION As we look for ways to generate increased financial growth, consideration of sustainabilityThe outcome of this effort was the introduction of a new corporate related issues helps to ensure that we consider relevant risks and opportunities in our markets. vision and strategy designed to guide our strategic decisions. Our For instance, as part of our Enterprise Risk Management program, we have identified risks vision is to be the most innovative, respected and responsible leader including more stringent greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations in certain regions where we in our markets—delivering performance that makes a difference. This operate and potential physical risks to some of our facilities due to extreme weather events vision lays out our destination that guides our strategy to extend our that may be brought on by climate change. We have also identified opportunities with regard leadership in performance materials by investing for growth in our STRATEGY VALUES to climate change including an increased demand for our products and services that support core businesses, driving application innovation with our customers our customers’ needs to meet energy and GHG regulations and improve energy efficiency. How and generating strong cash flows through efficiency and optimization. such risks and opportunities are managed depends on a prioritization approach that takes into This strategy drives our choices, enables us to prioritize our efforts, account timeframe, magnitude of impact, likelihood and financial implications. differentiates us from our peers and will help us build lasting value for our stakeholders. CONDUCTING BUSINESS ETHICALLY We maintain a steady focus on conducting our business ethically. This is rooted in our core company values of respect, responsibility, excellence and integrity. Our Code of Business Ethics GRI 102-16 provides guidance to all employees on how these values should be upheld in their respective roles. The Code describes the responsibility every employee has to treat each other with mutual respect, engage with customers and other stakeholders ethically, protect our assets and serve as responsible members of our community. It is translated into 13 languages and all employees are required to undergo annual training on its content. Overseeing the Code, along with other policies and compliance with laws and regulations, is the Office of Compliance that reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 14 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 CUSTOMERS It is widely recognized that the environmental and potential health impacts of our Effective method for biogas purification products extend beyond the boundaries of manufacturing into how our customers Biogas that is generated by the breakdown of organic matter at and their customers use these products. Our vision of delivering performance landfills and digesters plays an important role as a sustainable source that makes a difference is exemplified by products that provide health, safety, of energy. Our activated carbon products purify biogas by removing environmental and other sustainable benefits for our customers. undesirable impurities such as hydrogen sulfide and siloxanes from the raw gas. These and other impurities must be removed from the biogas before it can be used to generate electricity or sold as an alternative SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS to natural gas. Our activated carbon products help reduce equipment damage and downtime, ensure emission targets are met and meet gas When it comes to developing new products, we implement a stage gate process that aligns with purity specifications, and they have become a key component in the Responsible Care® and our own Safety, Health and Environment (SH&E) Policy by considering GRI 103-1 production of this renewable energy source. With increasing needs for the entire life-cycle of the product. Early in development, safety and hazard assessments are GRI 103-2 improved, clean biogas for automotive fuel and other applications, we conducted to identify potential risks. If risks are identified, mitigation measures are evaluated GRI 103-3 more than quadrupled our sales in the biogas market in 2016 compared to determine if development should proceed or cease. For all our products, we are diligent in GRI 416-1 to 2015. Our uniquely designed purification technology is poised to conducting thorough hazard and regulatory assessments and developing comprehensive Safety become an even more important part of biogas energy production in Data Sheets, which include details on safe storage and handling. the future. Going beyond the stage gate process, we also work closely with customers to identify how we can support them in developing sustainable products and solutions beyond what complies Unlocking cesium from filter waste with environmental and public health regulations. Often, this means producing solutions that Due to a limited global supply of cesium ore and to minimize our environmental impact through mining, we supply cesium improve energy efficiency or adhere to strict end-user requirements. For example, our conductive to customers through a unique fluid rental model. This model enables customers to return used cesium formate brine carbon blacks and treated silicas have been selected for their ability to improve wind turbine to Cabot. When fluid is returned to us it often contains contaminants and additives that need to be removed before the performance and our LP series of carbon black helps our customers adhere to the European fluid can be utilized again. A number of steps are taken to return the fluid to its original condition, including precipitation Union Commission’s limits on polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) for certain applications. reactions and filtration. We recognized that cesium was being lost during this reclamation process and conducted an We welcome opportunities to collaborate with customers on these types of projects and we are experimental study to quantify the amount lost and identify the source of the losses to optimize the process. It was proud of our ability to introduce more innovative solutions to the market. determined that significant losses of cesium occurred during filtration. We made a number of changes to the filtration process, including upgrades to our existing equipment and changes in operating procedures. As a result of the changes made, we significantly reduced losses. These savings reduce the volume of raw materials required for production and move us closer to a “closed loop” model. Enabling truckless mining through reinforcement materials Our carbon black business in South America is playing an integral part in an innovative project to replace the use of heavy duty trucks with rubber conveyer belts—also known as truckless technology. We provide specialty grade carbon black to two conveyor belt producers for Vale Mining Company to reinforce the rubber compound used to strengthen the conveyor belts against abrasion, cuts and other damages that the ore may cause. Utilizing a 30 kilometer-long conveyor belt, Vale will replace trucks with conveyor belts. In doing so, the consumption of diesel is reduced by about 70% and the annual GHG is reduced by at least 50%, which means approximately 130,000 tons less carbon dioxide equivalents emitted each year. 16 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS Aerogel insulating plasters enable increased RECOGNIZED FOR OUR LEADERSHIP energy savings in buildings Our ability to partner with customers and deliver valuable contributions to their business does not Aerogel insulating plasters are a new class of insulation materials go unnoticed. We are honored to have been recognized by numerous customers for our commitment that allow high-performance energy renovation of existing buildings. to excellence and the superior service we provide. Due to the initial high cost of the product, the spectrum of uses seemed limited at first. Through a joint effort with our partner, Fixit AG, we enabled the next step toward market adoption by lowering the Cabot Brazil awarded “Best Carbon Black Supplier” price of the aerogel plaster, thereby making it more accessible to a In May 2016, our carbon black team in Brazil received the “Best broader group of users. This change enabled a significant increase Carbon Black Supplier” award from Paint & Pintura. This is the twelfth in application uses. Specifically, PROCERAM GmbH & Co. KG utilized consecutive year that we have received this well-respected award in Fixit aerogel insulating plaster in the renovation of an entire 8-story the coatings and inks industries in Brazil. We received first place with apartment complex near Berlin, Germany. By applying a 60 millimeter approximately 60% of the total votes. For the silica category, we received thick layer of the aerogel plaster, the building was able to achieve fourth place and were noted as one of the “Master Companies.” significant energy savings. Existing facades can now be insulated without changing the appearance of the building while also achieving significant energy savings of up to 70%. Battery additives improve performance of energy storage systems Cabot awarded “Core Strategic Supplier” Despite a growing focus on delivering more efficient energy storage by Linglong Tire systems, India continues to depend heavily on lead-acid batteries for domestic, automotive and industrial energy storage. As such, it is vitally In March, we were the only reinforcement material manufacturer to be important to make the existing lead-acid batteries more efficient, able awarded “Core Strategic Supplier” by Linglong Tire. In addition to the to accept a fast re-charge, offer a wide operating temperature range, award, we signed a core strategic supplier agreement to jointly build a and have an increased cycle life and stable voltage plateau. Our PBX® global high-end purchasing and supply platform. Both companies will carbon additives enable battery developers to improve the durability further their cooperation together in standard enhancements, quality and performance of batteries. In 2016, we made our first breakthrough improvements, and research and development. in India by offering commercial quantities of our PBX carbon additive for use in batteries that offer improved dynamic charge acceptance and increased cycle life. Our PBX products are now supporting India’s quest for sustainable, reliable energy storage systems. Kraiburg names Cabot a “Top Supplier” Kraiburg, a leading European compounder, recently conducted its annual supplier evaluation and graded us with an “A” as one of their best suppliers. This is a great achievement for our commercial supply chain production and customer care teams, recognizing their continuous efforts to focus on customer needs and leverage our expertise in plastics with this innovative player. Future projects with Kraiburg will provide ample opportunity to expand our successful collaboration. 18 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 ENVIRONMENT Environmental laws and regulations establish standards for protecting the GRI 102-48 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS environment according to local, national and international norms. We are committed GRI 103-1 to operating in a responsible manner and adhering to these strict standards. At the In 2014, we introduced updated environmental goals that included new targets for cutting our GRI 103-2 GRI 103-2 nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions and waste disposal goals in addition same time, we continue to work toward our environmental goals and enhance our GRI 103-3 to revised energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) goals. data collection processes to track our performance with a high level of accuracy. We continue to monitor our progress toward these targets and other environmental metrics. We regularly examine our site-specific data and engineering estimates to ensure we This is complemented by the projects underway at individual facilities to optimize our processes have the most accurate data possible for monitoring and reporting our performance. for efficiency and reduce our environmental impacts. A recent reexamination of this data, improvements in our engineering estimates and updates to our facility-specific information resulted in restatements of some of our Energy GHG Nitrogen Oxides Sulfur Dioxide Waste environmental data. For instance, our 2012 baseline emissions for nitrogen oxide Intensity Intensity Intensity Intensity Disposal GJ / MT MT OF CO2e / MT MT NOX / KMT MT SO2 / KMT MT OF WASTE DISPOSED / (NOX) and sulfur dioxide (SO2), as well as our previously reported 2015 emissions OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION KMT OF PRODUCTION data, have been restated as a result of this review. We have not altered our stated goals for SO2 and NOX emissions intensity reduction, which remain at 40% and 20% by 2025, respectively. We will continue to gather and analyze data with the highest level of accuracy to further enhance the integrity of data wherever possible. In support of this objective, we intend to commission a third party environmental data verification process for future data sets. CO2 NOx SO2 Land remediation leads to redevelopment Over the years, we have been dedicated to the remediation of our former industrial properties to allow for their reuse. It is shown that redevelopment of these “brownfield” sites prevents sprawl into open space, forests and agricultural land, thereby preserving acres of undeveloped land. When we cease operations, we decommission the facility and perform 10% 20% 20% 40% 15% a comprehensive environmental assessment and conduct appropriate remediation to render the property safe for REDUCTION REDUCTION REDUCTION REDUCTION REDUCTION redevelopment and similar reuse. To date, approximately 12 properties have been returned to beneficial uses through this BASELINE YEAR 2005 BASELINE YEAR 2005 BASELINE YEAR 2012 BASELINE YEAR 2012 BASELINE YEAR 2012 program and most recently, the redevelopment of our former operating site in Altona, Australia was completed for reuse TARGET YEAR 2025 TARGET YEAR 2025 TARGET YEAR 2025 TARGET YEAR 2025 TARGET YEAR 2025 as an office park in 2016. Carbon black industry entry conditions With growing pressure for further environmental protection, the Chinese government has engaged with the China Carbon Black Industry Association to develop an environmental standard for companies wishing to begin carbon black manufacturing. Initially, only seven board member companies of the Association were eligible to draft the standard. Due to our global presence in the carbon black industry and strong commitment to safety, health and the environment, we were asked to contribute to the effort. As the only foreign-owned carbon black manufacturer to participate on the team, we worked closely with the Association to develop Carbon Black Industry Entry Conditions and contributed to the topic of emissions control for NOX, SO2, volatile organic compounds and solid waste. The new standard2 promotes responsible manufacturing practices and will help drive sustainable development of the carbon black industry. 2 The standard, T/CRIA 20001-2016, was issued in January 2017. Carbon black manufacturing facility in Tianjin, China. 20 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Energy centers recover 500 megawatts of thermal energy Throughout our global network of carbon black plants, we have made significant investments to recover energy and While we are continuously looking for ways to make our operations more efficient and reduce reduce our environmental footprint. Currently, 12 of our 18 carbon black facilities recover approximately 500 megawatts our environmental impacts, we also carefully manage our regulatory obligations to ensure we GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 (MW) of thermal energy annually in our energy centers from waste heat generated from our processes. In 2016, we meet the requirements of the local governments where we operate. We monitor our performance GRI 103-3 developed a performance metric to measure the gap between the actual performance and the theoretically best available in this area through our environmental non-conformance (ENC) metric, which we define as GRI 307-1 recovery performance with our existing assets and available waste energy. The gap was nearly 15% of the energy we could any event resulting in a reportable spill or release, a notice of violation, a public complaint or have recovered with existing assets. In order to reduce this gap, we are executing on a series of technical actions, primarily a regulatory permit deviation. In 2016, we continued our downward trend and realized a 26% focused on efficiency improvements. This will enable us to further reduce the amount of energy that we and our partners reduction in the number of ENCs and a nearly 50% reduction in the fines paid from 2015 to need to purchase to operate our plants, and therefore reduce the associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. approximately $70,000. As part of our “Drive to Zero” initiative, we maintain the philosophy that all ENCs are preventable. We learn from these events, share the results of root cause investigations throughout the organization and continue to reduce the number of ENCs by Franklin facility partners with updating equipment, revising procedures, adopting best practices and training employees on important environmental compliance practices. Cleco Corporation for new clean energy center ENVIRONMENTAL NON-CONFORMANCES In October 2016, crews broke ground on the St. Mary Clean Energy Center at our carbon 200 160 117 black facility in Franklin, Louisiana, USA. In 100 86 partnership with Cleco Corporation, the new center will be able to generate enough 0 energy to power 17,000 homes and will do so 2014 2015 2016 without producing any additional emissions. The waste heat captured from our plant will produce steam that will drive a 50 MW turbine ENERGY generator to produce the electricity, which will offset nearly 150,000 metric tons (MT) of GHG The pursuit of energy efficiency helps us support our corporate strategy of operational emissions. Together with Cleco, we will help optimization by generating cost savings from decreased energy consumption. We are GRI 103-1 to reduce air pollution while helping to provide constantly looking for opportunities to introduce energy savings at our facilities including GRI 103-2 reliable, renewable energy generation. capturing waste heat for production of electricity or producing steam to offset our demands. GRI 103-3 We deploy state-of-the-art variable speed drives that have reduced our energy demand. Botlek reduces tank energy consumption with While our long-term energy use and recovery aerogel coating trend continues to decrease, we saw a slight increase in our energy consumption and Our carbon black manufacturing site in Botlek, the Netherlands has intensity in 2016 compared to 2015. This is significantly reduced the energy consumption of one of its feedstock ENERGY USE GRI 302-1 primarily due to decreases in overall yield in storage tanks by applying an insulating coating material that utilizes ENERGY USE ENERGY INTENSITY GRI 302-3 our carbon black facilities. However, we were (MM GJ) (GJ / MT OF PRODUCTION) our ENOVA® aerogel. The site has seven feedstock tanks that are able to capture and utilize more waste energy heated by steam. None of the tanks were insulated which resulted in from our carbon black facilities and saw the 126.1 2016 62.9 higher energy consumption due to thermal losses. The site coated one energy intensity decrease in our Purification feedstock tank with 3 mm of Tnemec’s AEROLON® thermal insulating Solutions segment by over 5%, reflecting 123.9 2015 62.3 coating. In comparison with the non-insulated tanks, this project resulted in a 55% reduction of energy consumption and achieved an improved yields in that business based on a 123.9 2014 60.5 internal rate of return of 28%. With this project, the site predicts a greater use of more efficient production units. savings of €10,000 on energy per year. PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL 33% Progress based on 2016 end-of-year data. 22 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT AIR POLLUTANTS & GREENHOUSE GAS SO2 NOx Given the industrial nature of our operations, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and air pollutants including nitrogen oxide (NOX) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) are closely monitored. We understand the GRI 103-1 SO2 EMISSIONS NOX EMISSIONS GRI 305-7 linkage these emissions have to climate change, we are continuously looking for ways to reduce GRI 103-2 SO2 EMISSIONS SO2 EMISSION NOX EMISSIONS NOX EMISSION GRI 103-3 (KMT) INTENSITY (MT / KMT) (KMT) INTENSITY (MT / KMT) these emissions. 2012 2012 2012 2012 In 2016, we saw a slight increase in our GHG emissions by 2.3% compared to 2015 and 1.1% on an 43.2 BASELINE 22.6 BASELINE 14.9 BASELINE 7.8 BASELINE intensity basis. This result can be attributed to the product mix from our Reinforcement Materials segment, which affects yield and therefore GHG emissions. While the year-over-year results 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 are up, we have realized 32% of our goal to reduce our GHG emissions intensity from our base 39.2 41.6 19.8 20.8 15.3 14.9 7.7 7.5 year emissions. CO2 PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL 20% 23% GHG EMISSIONS GHG INTENSITY GRI 305-1 Progress based on 2016 end-of-year data. Baseline and Progress based on 2016 end-of-year data. Baseline and targets were restated to reflect updated information. targets were restated to reflect updated information. SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 (MT C02e / SCOPE 2 (MT C02e / GRI 305-2 (MM MT C02e) (MM MT C02e) MT OF PRODUCTION) MT OF PRODUCTION) GRI 305-4 4.5 2016 0.3 2.25 2016 0.17 4.4 2015 0.3 2.21 2015 0.17 4.6 2014 0.4 2.25 2014 0.20 PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL 32% Progress based on 2016 end-of-year data. Similarly, our SO2 emissions intensity increased in 2016 by 4.9%, driven largely by a change in the feedstock mix in the Reinforcement Materials segment. While we are up year-over-year, we see an overall downward trend and have realized approximately 20.2% of our goal to achieve a 40% reduction of SO2 emissions intensity by 2025. While the year-over-year variations are driven by feedstock mix, we continue our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint. In 2016, our NOX emissions intensity decreased by 3.3%, with an overall emissions reduction of 2.1%. We continue to make progress reducing our NOX emissions and have reached 23.1% of our goal to achieve a 20% reduction of NOX emissions intensity by 2025. These reductions were achieved by realizing the impact of the first full year of the NOX control system implementation at our carbon black facility in Shanghai, China and the completion of the first phase of the implementation of the NOX control system at our Tianjin, China carbon black facility. In 2016, we also completed the construction of the new NOX control system at our Pampa, Texas, USA facility3 and expect to significantly reduce emissions from that facility. 3 The facility began the full operational shake-down period in March 2017. 24 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT WASTE & SPILLS WATER We acknowledge the potential impact that solid waste disposal or spills of hazardous materials We are dependent on water for many of our manufacturing processes and at the same time, could have on the environment in our local communities, therefore, we take a targeted approach to GRI 103-1 we deeply understand how critical this natural resource is to human life and ecosystems. We GRI 103-1 minimizing waste and working toward zero spills at our facilities. We also see that waste presents GRI 103-2 therefore strive to conserve water across our operations and ensure that wastewater is properly GRI 103-2 opportunities to contribute to a circular economy by finding alternative uses for certain waste types. GRI 103-3 treated prior to discharge to avoid degradation to the surrounding environment. GRI 103-3 In 2016, our total waste generation intensity increased by 1.6%, which can be attributed entirely to In 2016, the volume of water supplied to our facilities was 51.7 million cubic meters (MM m3), a one-time event involving the generation of waste soil from a construction project at our Franklin, down 0.2% from 2015, which corresponds to a 1.4% reduction on an intensity basis. Our Louisiana, USA carbon black facility. Without this event, our total waste generation intensity would wastewater discharge totaled 39.9 MM m3, up 7.6% from 2015 and an intensity increase of 6.3%. have been slightly lower than 2015. Our total waste disposed offsite per unit of production was The most significant increase in water use was for once-through cooling at our Botlek, the also up year-over-year to 200.3 MT/KMTp, but we still remain below our 2025 goal of 286 MT/KMTp Netherlands carbon black facility. We did see reductions at our specialty fluid facility in Lac Du of production. Bonnet, Canada, as a result of a reduction in mining activities. We also have several carbon black GRI 303-3 facilities that capture and reuse wastewater, including Cartagena, Colombia; Maua, Brazil; and Our focus continues to be on finding alternative beneficial uses for our waste materials to eliminate Xingtai, China that successfully capture and reuse 100% of their wastewater onsite. We are in the or minimize our total waste disposed. In the past year, we have been successful in identifying more final design phase at our facility in Franklin, Louisiana, USA to implement a project for wastewater opportunities to beneficially reuse both hazardous and non-hazardous waste for energy recovery capture and reuse. We recognize the need for reducing our demand for water and will continue to or as substituted materials. In 2016, we increased our rates of reuse by 9.5% in absolute terms and track changing water supply conditions and regulatory programs. 8.2% based on our production intensity. This was accomplished at a number of individual facilities that have identified improved recycling and reuse opportunities. Barry project reduces water and chemical use Haverhill reduces toxic chemical use Our Barry, United Kingdom fumed metal oxides facility implemented a project to upgrade the chemical treatment system within its cooling towers. The project involved the installation of a new analytical control system, providing more robust The City of Haverhill, Massachusetts, USA recently agreed to revise our inkjet facility’s pH wastewater discharge limits from a analysis of water quality and improved control of treatment chemicals. This ultimately reduced the amount of chemicals range of 6.0 to 9.0 to a new range of 6.0 to 10.0. This change was actually beneficial to both Cabot and the City of Haverhill. needed to maintain tower cleanliness, which both increased efficiency and reduced water consumption. The project Based on new industrial dischargers to the city’s Publically Owned Treatment Works, Haverhill was looking to identify is expected to yield both a reduction in chemical use by 20% and wastewater discharges by about 6,400 m3 or sources of high pH wastewater to offset lower pH wastewater expected from the new users. This revision to the upper pH approximately 25%. limit enabled us to reduce the amount of sulfuric acid used to control the pH chemistry. Sulfuric acid is listed under the Massachusetts Toxic Use Reduction Act (TURA) program and requires the facility to report on its annual use and identify toxic use reduction opportunities whenever possible. The new pH range has enabled the site to reduce the volume of sulfuric acid used in 2016 by 10%, or 8,000 pounds. TOTAL WASTE DISPOSED & INTENSITY GRI 306-2 WATER SUPPLY & INTENSITY GRI 303-1 WASTE DISPOSED WASTE DISPOSED INTENSITY WATER SUPPLY WATER SUPPLY INTENSITY GRI 306-1 (KMT) (MT / KMT OF PRODUCTION) (MILLION M3) (M3 / MT OF PRODUCTION) 401.6 2016 200.3 51.7 2016 25.8 391.9 2015 197.8 51.8 2015 26.1 392.9 2014 192.9 57.3 2014 28.1 PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL *Water used is the WASTE GENERATION WASTE INTENSITY BENEFICIAL WASTE 100% WASTEWATER DISCHARGE & INTENSITY TOTAL WATER USED & INTENSITY* difference between water (KMT) (MT / KMT OF PRODUCTION) supplied and waste water WASTE BENEFICIALLY USED WASTE BENEFICIALLY USED Progress based on WASTEWATER WASTEWATER DISCHARGE TOTAL WATER USED TOTAL WATER USED INTENSITY discharged at a facility. (KMT) INTENSITY (MT / KMT DISCHARGE (MILLION M3) INTENSITY (M3 / MT (MILLION M3) (M3 / MT OF PRODUCTION) NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE OF PRODUCTION) 2016 end-of-year data. OF PRODUCTION) 35.6 36.3 45. While this goal has been 17.5 18.3 22.5 2014 2015 2016 21.5 2016 10.7 achieved, we anticipate more waste generation as 39.9 2016 19.9 11.8 2016 5.9 part of pollution control HAZARDOUS WASTE 19.6 2015 9.9 measures so reduction efforts continue. 37. 2015 18.7 14.7 2015 7.4 373.9 375.2 378. 183.5 189.4 188.6 2014 2015 2016 16.6 2014 8.2 43.7 2014 21.4 13.6 2014 6.7 26 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 PEOPLE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Safe and healthy working conditions are a fundamental human right and maintaining TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT & LOST TIME RATE PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS GRI 103-1 TOTAL RECORDABLE LOST TIME 2016 2015 2014 strong occupational safety and health programs at our facilities is central to our 1 GRI 103-2 INCIDENT RATE* RATE culture. We are committed to industry leadership and excellence in safety, health GRI 103-3 0 2 1 and environmental (SH&E) performance which is underscored by our executive0.46 2016 0.27 TIER endorsed SH&E Policy. Our goal is to be among the top 10% of our industry peers for 0.51 2015 0.25 2 2 2 1 safety performance. With this top-level management commitment and support, we The CCPS defines a process safety event as a strive to conduct our business in a manner that minimizes negative impacts on our 0.44 2014 0.28 release of material or energy from a process that resulted in injury, fire, explosion or release of employees, contractors, the public and the communities in which we operate. As *Total recordable incident and lost time rate are flammable, combustible or toxic chemicals. Tier 1 the number of incidents per 100 employees. events are the most severe process safety events. such, all our employees and contractors receive safety training and all our facilities are required to have a safety program that meets all applicable health and safety laws as well as Cabot standards, which often exceed local regulations. PROCESS SAFETY MEASURES To reinforce the critical importance of safety, we host a company-wide Global Safety Day every Process safety is an intrinsic part of our SH&E policy. By designing and operating our facilities year. This is an opportunity to celebrate achievements for excellent safety performance, discuss consistent with the fundamentals of a sound process safety management program, we keep our GRI 403-2 best practices and remind ourselves of our “Drive to Zero” program. This program challenges us employees, our contractors and our communities safe and ensure we are a reliable supplier to to believe that all incidents are preventable, whether it is a personal safety, process safety or an our customers. Our program involves ongoing reviews of our existing facilities through process environmental incident. hazard analyses, management of change and prestart-up safety reviews. For significant facility While we saw a decrease in the number of total injuries from 2015 to 2016, there was changes, we conduct operations preparedness reviews using a team of subject matter experts unfortunately an increase in the total number of lost work days due to severe incidents. GRI 102-12 to ensure the change has been fully evaluated and is ready to be placed into safe operation. We conduct a thorough evaluation of every incident, including “high potential near misses,” Through these efforts, we continue to see improvement in our performance as measured by to understand the root cause of such incidents and assess how we may implement measures the reduction in our internal measure of significant process safety events, but also in the to avoid similar safety risks in the future across our global operations. Throughout the years, direct and indirect cost of these events. These events are also categorized using the criteria these incident learnings and our strong safety culture have kept us an industry leader in safety specified by the Center for Chemical Process Safety (CCPS). In 2016 we had no Tier 1 process performance and we will always focus on continuous improvement to achieve our goal of safety events and remained flat year-over-year at two Tier 2 events. To ensure our global zero incidents. organization learns from these and other process safety events, our facilities initiate thorough root cause investigations, the outcomes of which are reviewed by the facility with Cabot senior Additionally, we remain an active member of the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible management. These learnings are then broadly distributed to mitigate similar events globally. Care® program. Three years after achieving initial certification in December 2013, all of our North American sites have been recertified according to the program’s RC 14001 SH&E Management System requirements. This achievement reinforces our long-standing commitment to SH&E and our ability to maintain, improve and adapt related programs over time to suit the changing needs of the organization. In addition, recertification of the management system validates the successful implementation of our SH&E program not only for our North American facilities but also at the corporate level. 28 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 PEOPLE PEOPLE Tianjin plant wins “Outstanding EMPLOYEE RETENTION, DIVERSITY & DEVELOPMENT Pioneer in Safety Production” Our employees are the most valuable asset we have for improving social, economic and In March, the Tianjin Economic-Technological environmental performance. One of the core principles of our corporate strategy is “talent GRI 103-1 Development Area (TEDA) held its 2016 matters.” Our culture is one that emphasizes the full potential of our people, who are GRI 103-2 Annual Meeting on safety production. The fundamental to our continued success. When it comes to hiring new employees, decisions are GRI 103-3 TEDA management committee recognized based on merit and qualifications, regardless of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, GRI 401-2 five “Elite Pioneers” selected from over sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected status. Moreover, GRI 404-2 14,000 companies. Qiao Yanzhong, facility GRI 405-1 we embrace diversity and equal opportunity as a means to access a broader talent pool and general manager of our Tianjin, China plant, foster innovation. was awarded this esteemed recognition on behalf of the facility. The TEDA management We understand the importance both for employees and the Company to continuously develop committee recommended that other professional skills across the workforce. Our Talent Management Framework guides us in TEDA-based companies learn skills such supporting employees to improve their performance. Through the utilization of a Performance as excellent safety leadership, advanced Based Management approach, performance reviews are held twice a year for all employees. experience and scientific and strict These reviews include an evaluation of how an employee contributes to the business’s regional management from Cabot and the other or corporate objectives through individual goals. This process allows managers to support four companies. employees in achieving expectations and identify opportunities for continued professional development. By providing resources to develop employees’ knowledge and skills, we offer our people opportunities for advancement, enhance value for our customers and retain talent to Managing safety performance training further our leadership position. We continue to invest in our employees through training in a variety of topics including safety. We recently conducted several two-day workshops to teach practical safety leadership skills to frontline supervisors, managers and other We are also committed to ensuring all employees have their basic needs met to live a healthy individuals. The sessions taught both “what to do” and “how to do it,” while providing tools to best manage safety and productive life. Our comprehensive benefits programs are designed to supplement social performance and increase employee engagement. Participants learned and were able to practice tangible tools that they benefits provided by the countries in which we operate. While our benefits vary by location, can use every day to manage through words and actions, including management by walking around, leading by example, typically we offer healthcare, life and accidental insurances, disability, retirement and pension reinforcing positive behaviors, creating stump speeches and more. This training program was initiated in North America in plans, business travel accident insurance, medical travel insurance, vacation, holiday and leave 2016 with the participation of more than half of the frontline leaders and it will be expanded to our global facility leaders in entitlement, educational financial assistance and access to retiree medical coverage. the next two years. Improving accessibility to personal protective equipment Maintaining an adequate inventory of the required personal protective equipment (PPE) in various sizes, and having it readily available, is an important element of an effective injury prevention program. The easier it is for employees to obtain the necessary PPE, the more likely they will be to perform their tasks safely. Several of our facilities in Europe have taken steps to improve employee accessibility to various types of PPE by installing dedicated vending machines that distribute these supplies. Through this solution, PPE is available at any time of the day and night by swiping an employee badge or by entering a personal access code. In addition to safety-related benefits, the vending machines provide direct and controlled availability of proper PPE and industrial consumables at the point where they are needed, delivering savings on consumption and improvements in productivity. Fumed silica manufacturing in Tuscola, Illinois, USA. 30 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 PEOPLE PEOPLE WORKFORCE BY REGION RATE OF TURNOVER AND NEW HIRES BY CATEGORY* AMERICAS EMEA ASIA PACIFIC TURNOVER TURNOVER GRI 401-1 46% 31% 23% GENDER 11.5% NEW HIRES 12.1% NEW HIRES 8.7% MALE 12.8% FEMALE TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 1,999 1,321 985 TURNOVER 17.1% TURNOVER 9.2% 30– TURNOVER 14.2% AGE GROUP <30 50+ PERMANENT TEMPORARY PERMANENT TEMPORARY PERMANENT TEMPORARY NEW HIRES NEW HIRES 50 NEW HIRES 1,988 11 1,312 9 985 – 32.2% 9.2% 2.4% WORKFORCE BY CONTRACT, EMPLOYMENT TYPE, AGE GROUP AND GENDER TURNOVER TURNOVER TURNOVER REGION 10.7% 13.7% 11.0% NEW HIRES NEW HIRES NEW HIRES TOTAL WORKFORCE 10.6% 9.8% 7.4% 4,305 PERMANENT TEMPORARY FULL-TIME PART-TIME AMERICAS EMEA APAC 4,285 20 4,212 93 *Rates calculated based on year-end census for each category. MALE MALE MALE MALE Transitioning mid-level managers to leadership roles 3,329 17 WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP 3,327 19 In 2016, we initiated a pilot training program with 50 mid-level professionals representing diverse FEMALE FEMALE < 30 FEMALE FEMALE functions from all of our regions to develop the necessary skills they would need to transition GRI 404-2 11% 956 3 50 + 31% 46% 31% 30–50 885 74 from being managers to assuming a leadership role. Our “Breakthrough Leadership” program draws from Harvard Business Publishing Corporate Leaders resources which guides participants 23% 58% through self-paced learning, study group activities, on-the-job assignments, virtual classroom sessions led by Cabot leaders and a learning action project over nine months. During this time, participants gained and practiced leadership skills, completed an action learning project with a direct impact on the company, and strengthened their internal network by working with other Enhancing employee engagement leaders throughout the organization. We look forward to gathering feedback and lessons learned from the pilot group to optimize and expand the program. Employee engagement is the extent to which employees feel passionate, energetic and committed to their work. This state is only reached when employees can experience a sense GRI 102-8 of meaning, autonomy, growth, impact and connection in what they do. Understanding how critically important employee engagement is to developing and maintaining a sustainable workforce, we introduced a project to measure and understand the engagement of our employees. This began with a pilot study in 2016 through which we deployed an employee engagement survey across our Boston and Billerica, Massachusetts, USA sites. Results from the survey were shared with employees, and focus groups were held to gain a deeper understanding of the feedback. As a result, action plans were developed and implemented, focusing on improving communication and creating better employee development, including greater visibility to internal job openings and education on career paths and career conversations. This exercise proved to be a valuable first step to our broader outreach involving a global engagement survey scheduled to launch in 2017. 32 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 PEOPLE Altamira Mexico Zaandam The Netherlands Riga Latvia PROFILES Fernando Rosas Harry Kramer Zane Andersone Specialist, Maintenance Administration Senior Engineer Senior Internal Auditor Fernando regularly volunteers his time collecting clothing and Harry has volunteered his time aboard the Dutch passenger Animals have been a passion of Zane’s since childhood and she medicine for local families in need. He and his wife also offer ship De Zonnebloem for the past 12 years. The ship, which is regularly volunteers her time at local animal shelters. She visits often The approach we take to giving back to the babysitting services so that the parents can work. They gather specially equipped for the elderly and those who are seriously to deliver food, blankets and other needed items, and she spends communities in which we operate is echoed by and recycle bottles and aluminum cans and use the collected ill or disabled, provides week-long holidays up to 40 times per time walking dogs and assisting the shelter staff. She adopted her the good work done by many of our colleagues money to help families afford critical medical treatments and year. As one of 60 volunteers on board, Harry is responsible for first cat more than five years ago, and since then has remained prescriptions. In addition, they foster abandoned dogs, providing the personal care of the guests, ensuring their safety both on committed to supporting shelters as they continue their mission of across the globe. Our employees continue to find them with food, medicine and basic care while they search for a board and during excursions into city shops and restaurants. He rescuing abandoned animals and caring for them until adoption. meaningful activities in their personal lives that family to adopt them. also helps lead activities such as dance and bingo to provide fun make a difference. entertainment and raise guests’ spirits. Ville Platte Tuscola LA, USA IL, USA Cartagena Boston MA, USA Colombia Rhonda Deshotels George Hostetter Reyner Babilonia Capital Coordinator Maintenance Mechanic Dispatch, Shipment and Gerry Caron Foreign Trade Coordinator Rhonda has been volunteering for several years for a variety of Chief Counsel, Safety, Health & Environment In June 2016, George and his wife led the Smyser Christian charitable community programs. She collects can tabs for the Church Youth Group on a mission trip in Belize. The team was Since 2015, Reyner has donated his time to the non-profit Ronald McDonald House and the money raised by recycling them Gerry is actively involved with the Boston Bulldogs Running comprised of 28 members from their local church, including organization Funvivir whose mission is to support children helps offset the organization’s operating costs. She also leads Club, a non-profit that provides a community of support for 21 high school students. As part of the mission, the group built from low income families as they are battling cancer. Reyner a Toy Drive at our Ville Platte plant during the holiday season to anyone adversely affected by addiction, including those in a concrete roof on a three-story building, lifting more than 12 participates in the “Love Plastic Caps Campaign,” gathering benefit children being treated at St. Jude’s Hospital in Memphis, recovery as well as their families, friends and communities. The tons of sand and gravel using five gallon buckets on a rope and plastic caps wherever he can find them and delivering them Tennessee, USA. She is a committee member of The Gumbo club promotes an integrated approach to wellness and selfpulley. Our site in Tuscola, Illinois, USA provided the gloves and every two months to Funvivir, which then recycles them and Foundation and through its annual cook-off raises money to leadership in recovery. Gerry and his family have been involved safety glasses that the group used during their mission. uses the funds to further the organization’s mission. defray medical and traveling expenses for a sick child in need. with Boston Bulldogs for two years and support for the group’s Additionally, Rhonda coordinated a successful clothing drive mission is as critical as ever in light of the magnitude of the for a local men’s homeless shelter and created a library in a current opioid epidemic in the United States. rural community. São Paulo Billerica Brazil MA, USA Campana Argentina Henrique Santos Jon Siddall Sarnia IT Infrastructure Coordinator Canada Process Development Fellow María Luz Mayor Steve Metcalfe Henrique is a volunteer at his church’s “60 Club,” a group whose Jon enjoys working with local high schools and universities Senior Accounting Analyst goal is to promote social, physical and leisure activities among whenever he has the chance. In 2016, Jon mentored a local Process Operator older members of the church and community in order to improve student who prepared a project submission for his local high Maria donates her time as a volunteer at “We are Diversity,” an their quality of life. The group participates in activities including school Science and Engineering Fair and contacted Cabot Steve recently participated in a house building mission in El annual day that recognizes and celebrates the value of diversity sightseeing, visits from special guests and informational for help. Jon helped with subject matter knowledge, secured Salvador with Shelter Canada, an organization that seeks to provide as part of the International Day of People with Disabilities. The lectures on relevant topics. Henrique is also a member of the special materials from a supplier and worked with the student safe, solid and secure homes for families in need due to extreme event features a variety of workshops and activities related Adventist Solidarity Action, an organization that assists people as he developed a series of prototype formulations for the poverty. On this trip, Steve and other volunteers worked closely to art, sports, recreation and environmental care. Maria also in need through various activities including collecting food and project. The student went on to win first place in his local fair alongside local families, which contributed to a sense of friendship, makes regular donations to the Austral University Hospital, an clothing, providing medical services, visiting orphanages and and participated in the Massachusetts State Science and community and mutual respect amongst everyone involved. important resource for several local communities. The hospital nursing homes and renovating housing. Engineering Fair. Together they tore down old homes, cleared space for the new provides outstanding research and training to its doctors, and its buildings and constructed brand new houses to help improve the pediatricians donate their time to members of the communities. quality of life for these local families. 34 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 COMMUNITIES We understand the value of partnering with the communities in which we operate, and recognize that thriving and resilient communities are essential for a sustainable future. HIGHLIGHTS FOUNDATION-SUPPORTED ACTIONS Community engagement not only benefits our neighbors, but supports our mission to be a responsible industry leader and good corporate citizen. With the generosity of our dedicated employees who offer their time and skills, we are able to go beyond charitable giving and actively support our neighbors. Aiding disadvantaged youth in Riga Our EMEA Business Service Center team in Riga, Latvia provided a generous donation to support the educational needs of children at the SOS Youth House. This organization provides long-term family-based care for youth coming from disadvantaged families that need to learn how to live productively and independently. Throughout the year, our employees worked closely with the organization through the donation of clothes, books and food items while also engaging in social activities such as bowling, table games and a barbeque party. Supporting children’s rehabilitation in Shanghai For almost ten years, our team in Shanghai, China and the Cabot Foundation have supported the Boai Children’s Rehabilitation Center, which provides treatment and rehabilitation for children with disabilities. In addition, the COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT team in Shanghai has remained involved at the center over the years. In 2016, over Our philanthropic activities take the forms of volunteerism, monetary gifts from our local facilities 40 employee volunteers accompanied a and grants distributed from our charitable giving arm, the Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc. About GRI 103-1 two-thirds of our facilities have identified local organizations and projects to receive charitable GRI 103-2 group of children from the center to the contributions. These teams carefully consider the needs of the people and environment GRI 103-3 Shanghai Zoo. This recreational outing around them, and in 2016, these local facilities made a total of approximately $500,000 in-kind GRI 413-1 provided the children with the ability to donations. With oversight from the Cabot Foundation Board of Directors, an additional total of leave the center to experience nature and approximately $1.1 million was pledged or donated to organizations. Preference is given to activities various animals, while also exercising and organizations focused on science and technology education, community relations and civic improvements that positively impact our communities. The Foundation Board regularly evaluates their social skills so that they can better the impact of this giving to ensure funds are used in ways that align with the Company’s overall reach their goal of going home. values and addresses the needs of our communities. 36 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES Supporting children with congenital heart disease Combining charity and sport In January, a team of volunteers from our Tianjin, China facility Our team of 14 employees in Valmez, Czech Republic continued visited children with congenital heart disease being treated at its charity cycling tradition by raising funds for the Together by the TEDA Cardiovascular Hospital. The team gave a donation Bike for Charity initiative. From April through October, in groups to the hospital on behalf of the Foundation and delivered gifts of two or more, the participants conquered 20 mountain and well-wishes for the New Year. To date, we have helped 20 peaks. They took photos after reaching each peak and the children from underprivileged families through these donations. company made a donation for every picture taken. A larger donation was made for those cyclers who conquered all 20 peaks. The money raised will provide assistance services and respite weekend stays for four disabled children. HIGHLIGHTS FACILITIES IN ACTION Delivering earthquake relief in Japan In April 2016, several earthquakes hit Kumamoto, Japan. The Engaging young girls in science, technology, earthquakes and subsequent aftershocks caused deaths, engineering and mathematics (STEM) injuries and widespread damage to the area’s residences and infrastructure. Our team in Japan donated time and funds In May 2016, a group of seven engineers from our inkjet to the prefecture of Kumamoto. In addition to funds, the team manufacturing facility in Haverhill, Massachusetts, USA spent time visiting different establishments in the city volunteered for Expanding Your Horizons, a nonprofit to further support this popular tourist destination as the organization dedicated to providing middle and high school city recovered. girls with STEM experiences to foster interest in future STEM careers. The team sponsored a workshop titled “Ink It Up” that taught the girls about the different types of ink, including the chemistry of inkjet ink and a demonstration on the science of surface tension that involved dropping water and isopropanol Supporting children’s health in Cartagena on coins. They also created a greeting card using inks that Our team in Cartagena, Colombia supports the charitable they mixed themselves. organization Fundación Mamonal and its Fondo Unido program, which encourages employees and companies to carry out social projects for the benefit of community members in need. We donate a monthly contribution that provides lunch for 75 girls and boys from Nuestra Señora del Buen Aire. This educational institution evaluates the health and nutritional conditions of vulnerable children and provides workshops on healthy eating and hygiene habits to help prevent disease. 38 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 AWARDS AND AWARDS AND RECOGNITION HIGHLIGHTS 2016 RECOGNITION u Gold Level Recognition — Cabot Corporation, given by EcoVadis u  utstanding Pioneer in Safety Production — Tianjin, China, given by the Tianjin Economic-Technological O As a leader in the industry, we are always striving to act as a responsible corporate Development Area (TEDA) citizen. We are proud of our accomplishments and honored to be recognized by organizations, publications and customers from all around the world. Below is a u Best Carbon Black Supplier — São Paulo, Brazil, given by Paint & Pintura selection of awards we received in 2016. u Top Supplier — Cabot Corporation, given by Kraiburg u Core Strategic Supplier — Cabot Corporation, given by Linglong Tire Shanghai plant receives Clean and Green Advanced Technology Honor u  nnual Green Operation Award — Shanghai, China, given by the 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility A and Innovation Shanghai Summit In August, the Shanghai Resource Comprehensive Utilization Association and Shanghai Economic and Information Technology Commission u C  lean and Green Advanced Technology Award — Shanghai, China, given by the Shanghai Resource conducted a survey of chemical enterprises in Shanghai, China that Comprehensive Utilization Association and Shanghai Economic and Information Technology Commission “adhere to green development, promote green manufacturing and develop green industry.” Our Shanghai plant was selected from 29 u 1 2 FYP Model Enterprise in Environment Protection — Shanghai, China, given by the China Petroleum other companies to be honored for its advanced clean technology and and Chemical Industry equipment for carbon black production and flue gas treatment. The energy-saving combustion technology has helped our Shanghai plant u O  utstanding Enterprises for Tax Contributions — Xingtai, China, given by the Party Committee of Xingtai successfully achieve higher production efficiency. Furthermore, we County and the government of Xingtai County have also set up an energy center which allows for the desulfurization and denitrification of tail gas and the steam produced is delivered to u T op Ten Credible Production Enterprises — Cabot Corporation, awarded at the 2016 Ninth China neighboring enterprises for resource utilization, offsetting the use of Coal Market Seminar fossil fuels at those facilities. u  armonious Labor Relation Enterprise Award — Tianjin, China, given by the Tianjin Economic-Technological H Development Area (TEDA) Cabot Colombiana named u A  dvanced Enterprise of Safety Production Management — Jiangxi, China, given by the People’s “Leading Company” Government of Jiujiang City In May, Cabot Colombiana was recognized as a “Leading Company” among 42 companies u  dvanced Technical Enterprise with Foreign Investment in Shanghai — Shanghai, China, A during the annual meeting of the Colombia given by the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Commerce Chapter of Integral Responsibility. This recognition is the result of our contributions u  dvanced Enterprise for Donating to Schools — Xingtai, China, given by the Xingtai County Party A to sustainable development through excellent Committee and Xingtai County Government performance in the protection of our people, the community, the environment, process u  est Enterprises with Social Responsibility in Shanghai Minhang District — Shanghai, China, B and product safety and security in our given by the government of the Shanghai Minhang District logistics chain. u G  old Seal — Cabot Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda., given by the Mutual Assistance Plan (PAM) Capuava 40 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 continued Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 102-13 Cabot is an active member of the following national and international industry/advocacy groups Memberships of associations and associations: GENERAL DISCLOSURES u American Chemistry Council (ACC) u Association of Synthetic Amorphous Silica Producers (ASASP) GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 u China Petroleum & Chemical Industry Federation (CPCIF) u Corporate Environmental Enforcement Council (CEEC) Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response u Environmental Law Institute 102-1 Cabot Corporation u essenscia (Belgium) Name of the organization u European Masterbatchers and Compounders (EuMBC) u European Plastics Converters – Food Contact Regulatory Experts Panel (EuPC FREP) 102-2 pp. 12, 13 u International Carbon Black Association (ICBA) Activities, brands, products, and/or services u Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity & Innovation (MAPI) u Society of Toxicology 102-3 2 Seaport Lane, Suite 1300 u Synthetic Amorphous Silica and Silicate Industry Association (SASSI) Location of headquarters Boston MA 02210 USA u United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 102-4 p. 13 102-14 p. 4 Location of operations Statement from senior decision-maker 102-5 Cabot Corporation is a publicly traded corporation (NYSE: CBT) 102-16 p. 14 Ownership and legal form Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 102-6 p. 12 Markets served 102-18 The Board of Directors has five standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Executive, Governance Governance structure and Nominating, and Safety, Health and Environmental Affairs. For additional details on the 102-7 Refer to p. 12 for the number of employees and operations. Board’s composition, refer to (cabotcorp.com/2016proxystatement). Scale of the organization Net revenue is listed p. 15. Total capitalization can be found in Cabot’s Form 10-K filed November 23, 2016 (cabotcorp. 102-40 p. 9 com/2016annualreport). Part II Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. List of stakeholder groups 102-8 p. 32 102-41 Across all Cabot operations, 16% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Information on employees and other workers Non-employee workers do not perform a significant portion of our activities. Only 0.5% of our Collective bargaining agreements The terms of collective bargaining agreements are fully aligned with Cabot’s Code of Business workforce are on temporary contracts and we employ a small number of interns and apprentices Ethics (cabotcorp.com/codeofbusinessethics) and Human Rights Policy (cabotcorp.com/ as part of our talent acquisition process. humanrightspolicy). 102-9 P. 6 102-42 p. 9 Supply chain Cabot’s supply chain predominantly consists of vendors providing raw materials, chemical Identifying and selecting stakeholders additives, process equipment, vehicles, packaging materials, logistics services and temporary contractors. 102-43 p. 9 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-10 p. 12 Significant changes to the organization 102-44 p. 9 and its supply chain Key topics and concerns raised 102-11 Throughout our operations and our product development, we are guided by the precautionary 102-45 Refer to Cabot’s Annual Report Form 10-K filed November 23, 2016 Precautionary Principle or approach principle and carefully take into account effects on the environment and health and safety. Entities included in the consolidated (cabotcorp.com/2016annualreport) financial statements Part I Item 1. Business for a description of our operations and entities in which Cabot has ownership 102-12 pp. 5, 8, 28 interest and exhibit 21 of Cabot’s Form 10-k for a list of Cabot’s subsidiaries. External initiatives In addition to the UNGC, Cabot participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project, and we are implementing the American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Responsible Care® program as part of our 102-46 pp. 5, 6 commitment to safety, health and environment (SH&E). Defining report content and topic boundaries 102-47 p. 7 List of material topics 42 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 continued GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 continued Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 102-48 p. 20 102-52 p. 5 Restatements of information This report reflects restated values for some of our historical environmental data. We regularly Reporting cycle examine our site-specific data and engineering estimates to ensure we have the most accurate data possible for monitoring and reporting our performance. In conducting a review of the baseline 102-53 Inquiries or comments concerning the content of this report may be directed (2012) and 2015 calculated emission estimates of sulfur dioxide and nitric oxides, we determined Contact point for questions regarding the report to sustainability@cabotcorp.com. that the original reported data did not include emissions associated with all sources at selected 102-54 p. 5 facilities, most notably flare emissions. After reviewing facility mass balance equations, we are able Claims of reporting in accordance to better quantify the total emissions, which are reflected in the numbers presented in this report. All with the GRI Standards of our current emission estimates were then compared to mass balance data to ensure the revised emissions estimates were reflective of actual emission data for all of our facilities. Water supply and 102-55 This complete GRI Content Index meets the intent and format required by the GRI Standards. wastewater data were also reviewed and updated to reflect more accurate assignment of cooling GRI Content Index water supplied to our neighbor from our system for 2015. The remainder of the changes are not considered material. Details of the changes are shown in the table below: 102-56 p. 5 External assurance Metric Previously Reported Updated Value % Change Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Energy (MM GJ) – 2015 124.2 — 123.9 — -0.2% — GHG Intensity (MT CO2e/MT) — 2.20 — 2.21 — 0.5% MATERIAL TOPICS — ECONOMIC Scope 1 – 2015 GHG Intensity — 0.19 — 0.20 — 2.3% u ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (MT CO2e/MT) Scope 2 – 2014 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 SO2 (KMT) | Intensity 30.2 17.0 43.2 22.6 43.1% 32.9% (MT/KMT) Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Baseline – 2012 2015 28.9 14.5 39.2 19.8 35.6% 36.6% 103-1 Refer to p. 15 for a description of the materiality and boundaries of economic performance. The Explanation of the material topic Board of Directors has the primary objective of protecting long-term interests of shareholders by NOX (KMT) | Intensity 8.8 5.0 14.9 7.82 69.3% 56.4% and its boundaries seeking opportunities for growth in Cabot’s core business. With support from the Management (MT/KMT) Executive Committee, the Board oversees financial performance and strategy, capital structure and Baseline – 2012 103-2 market exposure, as well as the Company’s overall risk profile. Our approach is guided by Cabot’s 2015 8.9 4.5 15.3 7.70 71.9% 71.1% The management approach and its Code of Business Ethics (cabotcorp.com/codeofbusinessethics). Cabot’s financial performance components is evaluated closely by our investors and the broader investment community. Cabot’s annual Non-Hazardous Waste — 17.3 — 17.5 — 1.2% (KMT) | Intensity statements are audited annually by an independent registered public accounting firm. 103-3 (MT/KMT) 2014 Evaluation of the management approach Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and 2015 34.8 17.5 36.3 18.3 4.3% 4.6% report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office Hazardous Waste 374.5 182.0 373.9 183.5 -0.2% 0.8% of Compliance, or use the Cabot hot-line. Stockholders or other interested parties may contact the (KMT) | Intensity Board of Directors with accounting or other concerns (cabotcorp.com/company/about-cabot/ (MT/KMT) 2014 governance). 2015 374.8 188.0 375.2 189.4 0.1% 0.7% Water Supply (MM m3) — 27.9 — 28.1 — 0.7% GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 / Intensity (m3 / MT) 2014 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 2015 56.8 28.5 51.8 26.1 -9.7% -8.4% 201-1 p. 15 Water Supply (MM m3) — 21.2 — 21.4 — 0.9% Direct economic value generated For additional information, refer to Cabot’s 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-k / Intensity (m3 / MT) and distributed (cabotcorp.com/2016annualreport). 2014 201-2 p. 15 2015 42.4 21.3 37.0 18.7 -12.7% -12.2% Financial implications and other risks and For additional information, refer to Cabot’s 2016 Carbon Disclosure Project filing (cdp.net). opportunities for the organization’s activities There were no restatements of financial or other information. due to climate change 102-49 p. 6 201-4 Cabot does not receive financial support from governments. Changes in reporting Financial assistance received from 102-50 p. 5 government Reporting period 102-51 p. 5 Date of most recent report 44 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — ENVIRONMENT u WATER GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 303: Water 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 103-1 Cabot’s approach to environmental topics focuses on operations under our direct control. See 303-1 p. 27 Explanation of the material topic pp. 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, and 27 for an overview of materiality, our management approach, and Water withdrawal by source Sources of water included purchased municipal water, surface water, ground water, and gray and its boundaries evaluation process for environmental topics. This management approach applies to the following water. Gray water is a new metric included in our data collection as of 2016 and represents water topics: energy, water, effluents and waste, emissions, and environmental compliance. The SH&E recovered from offsite sanitary systems. 103-2 Committee of Cabot’s Board of Directors oversees environmental issues at the highest governance The management approach Sources by Percent of Total Volume Used level. The Senior Vice President for SH&E is responsible for the technical guidance on all matters Surface 72% and its components related to SH&E performance and oversees a global team of SH&E professionals including Purchased 23% regional SH&E directors. Cabot’s SH&E Policy lays out guidelines for environmentally-responsible Ground 4% 103-3 practices, and company-wide performance goals have been established for environmental nonGray 1% Evaluation of the management approach conformances, energy, air emissions and GHG, and waste. Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and 303-3 p. 27 report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office Water recycled and reused Three of our facilities have zero wastewater discharge, reusing wastewater which would otherwise of Compliance, or use the Cabot hot-line. Our manufacturing facilities have opportunities to engage be discharged in the process. The supplied water to these facilities is among the lowest in our the local community, including the use of a Community Advisory Panel (CAP), and “Open Days” carbon black manufacturing operations. where community members may visit sites and speak directly with Cabot employees regarding their concern. In addition, Cabot welcomes feedback from suppliers and customers should they have any concerns or questions about our products and practices. GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 306-1 p. 27 u ENERGY Water discharge by quality and destination The majority (94%) of the water discharged is to surface discharge, the remaining volume is discharged to public or private sewers (5%) or groundwater/other (2%). For all water discharged from our facilities, we carefully monitor the quality and if needed, treat outgoing water to meet local GRI 302: Energy 2016 regulatory standards. Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 302-1 p. 22 Energy consumption within the organization Energy use is managed at several levels throughout the organization, including corporate-level u AIR POLLUTANTS / GHG strategy, analysis, goal-setting, capital programs designed to build and invest in energy efficient facilities, waste energy capture and plant-level management practices to optimize operations and implement efficiency measures as new technologies become available. Data is collected GRI 305: Emissions 2016 through energy use monitoring and analyzed using standard factors and methods including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Chemical Engineering Handbook, and Cabot-specific Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response engineering calculations. 305-1 p. 24 Our total energy consumption in 2016 was 126.1 MM GJ which was sourced from natural gas (3.6%), Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Our greenhouse gas calculations were completed in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: liquid fuels (0.05%), raw materials (94.4%), purchased electricity (1.9%) and steam (0.09%). For A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards (Revised Edition), and drawing guidance from the more information about our fuel sources refer to our 2016 CDP disclosure (cdp.net). IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories 2006, and The Climate Registry: General Reporting Protocol. Emissions were calculated using the operational control approach and IPCC 302-3 p. 22 Second Assessment Report 100-year global warming potentials, and included emissions of CO2, CH4, Energy Intensity Our total energy intensity for 2016 was 62.9 GJ / MT of production. Energy consumption includes N2O. We maintain databases that track monthly usage volumes of feedstock materials, and fossil all forms of energy consumed by facilities under Cabot’s operational control, as reported under fuels, as well as production volume. Our 2015 and 2016 GHG emissions were verified in alignment with Disclosure 302-1. the principles of ISO-14064-3:2006(E) Specifications with Guidance for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions under a Limited Level of Assurance by Cameron-Cole. 305-2 p. 24 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions See Disclosure 305-1 in the GRI Content Index for a description of GHG monitoring methods. 305-4 p. 24 GHG emissions intensity GHG intensity is calculated as MT CO2e emissions / MT of product. The intensity of our GHG emissions is calculated for all Scope 1 and 2 emissions produced by facilities under Cabot’s operational control, as reported under Disclosure 305-1 and 305-2. 305-7 p. 25 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) Data reported has been calculated using actual test measurements based on country specific or U.S. EPA methods, Cabot engineering estimates, U.S. EPA or similar emission factors. 46 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX u WASTE & SPILLS GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Omission GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 414-1 p. 6 Information Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response New suppliers that were screened using Because this topic was first identified as highly material in 2016, systems have unavailable social criteria not yet been put in place to accurately report this information. We will explore 306-2 p. 26 the development of a screening process for critical suppliers that includes Waste by type and disposal method Disposal methods for waste generated by Cabot in 2016 include 88% disposed of through assessments of environmental and social criteria. deep well injection at one location, 5% reused or recycled for use or energy, 6% landfilled, 0.3% incinerated without energy recovery, 0.3% other disposal methods. 306-3 In calendar year 2016, there were two reportable spills of hazardous materials to the environment Total number and volume of significant spills at our Franklin, Louisiana, USA facility. One spill involved a release of 1,512 gallons of carbon black u PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY feedstock which was contained on-site and cleaned up. The second spill involved the release of 178.5 pounds of hydrogen sulfide and 97.6 pounds of carbon disulfide from raw carbon black GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 tailgas vented to the atmosphere. Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 103-1 p. 16 Explanation of the material topic Product health, safety, and environmental impacts occur primarily downstream from Cabot’s u ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE and its boundaries operations through the activities of our customers and in some cases through end-use by consumers, and for an overview of materiality, our management approach, and evaluation process GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 103-2 for product sustainability. The key responsibility for this effort resides with Cabot’s Product Support The management approach and Toxicology Group of the Safety, Health, and Environment (SH&E) Department, as well as the Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response and its components business and research and development teams. 307-1 p. 22 103-3 Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and Non-compliance with environmental laws Adhering to local environmental laws and regulations is the responsibility of facility general Evaluation of the management approach report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office and regulations managers as well as site environmental managers located at each facility. In support of of Compliance, or use the Cabot hot-line. In addition, Cabot welcomes feedback from customers compliance efforts, resources include a robust database to track near-miss and ENC events and should they have any concerns or questions about our products and practices. corrective actions, as well as over $30MM in capital spending in FY 2016 which was dedicated to improving facilities and reducing ENCs. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response u SUPPLIERS’ SUSTAINABILITY 416-1 p. 16 Assessment of the health and safety impacts 100% of significant product categories are assessed for health and safety impacts using best of product and service categories available information. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 103-1 p. 6 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries Cabot indirectly contributes to upstream impacts through our relationships with suppliers. The sustainability performance of our suppliers is a topic recently identified as material and therefore MATERIAL TOPICS — SOCIAL an area we will be looking to evolve over the coming years. Cabot’s Supplier Code of Conduct 103-2 The management approach provides additional details on supplier expectations (cabotcorp.com/suppliercodeofconduct). u EMPLOYMENT, DIVERSITY, & TRAINING Cabot’s Global Purchasing Department is responsible for ensuring that suppliers receive and agree and its components by the terms of the Supplier Code of Conduct. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and Evaluation of the management approach report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response of Compliance, or use the Cabot hot-line. In terms of supplier-specific grievances, employees are also encouraged to provide feedback on supplier performance criteria through a dedicated 103-1 Refer to p. 31 for an overview of materiality and boundaries, our management approach, and platform on the Company intranet. We also have an open door policy for suppliers and welcome Explanation of the material topic evaluation process for the following topics: employment, training and education, diversity and their feedback should they have any concerns or questions. and its boundaries equal opportunity, and non-discrimination. Reporting to the CEO and senior executive management committee, the Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer oversee programs 103-2 to recruit, retain and support employees at Cabot. The Human Resources Department assists The management approach managers across the company with the performance review process, and implementation of GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 and its components Cabot’s Code of Business Ethics and Human Rights Policy, which establish expectations for Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Omission professional conduct, strict adherence to labor practices and human rights laws, and creation 103-3 of a safe and healthy workplace. Refer to Cabot’s Code of Business Ethics (cabotcorp.com/ 308-1 p. 6 Information Evaluation of the management approach codeofbusinessethics) and Human Rights Policy (cabotcorp.com/humanrightspolicy) for details. New suppliers that were screened using Because this topic was first identified as highly material in 2016, systems have unavailable environmental criteria not yet been put in place to accurately report this information. We will explore Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and the development of a screening process for critical suppliers that includes report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office assessments of environmental and social criteria. of Compliance, or use the Cabot hot-line. 48 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 401: Employment 2016 u OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 401-1 p. 33 New employee hires and employee turnover Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 401-2 p. 31 103-1 p. 28 Benefits provided to full-time employees Explanation of the material topic Cabot’s approach to occupational health and safety encompasses all direct impacts occurring in and its boundaries facilities under our operational control, including employees, contractors, and visitors. Refer to p. 28 for an overview of materiality, our management approach, and evaluation process for occupational GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 103-2 health and safety. Within our Board, the SH&E Committee oversees the safety of products and The management approach manufacturing processes. The Senior Vice President of SH&E provides day-to-day management of Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response and its components SH&E programs and also regularly reports to the SH&E Committee. Cabot’s SH&E Policy lays out our guiding principles (cabotcorp.com/SHEpolicy). 404-1 Average training hours are tracked by three main employee function categories: 103-3 Average hours of training per year u Clerical / Technical: 24 hours/employee Evaluation of the management approach Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and per employee u Professional / Supervisor: 27 hours/employee report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of u Management / Experienced: 19 hours/employee Compliance, or use the Cabot hot-line. Our manufacturing facilities have formal processes to engage the local community, including the use of a Community Advisory Panel (CAP), and “Open Days” where 404-2 pp. 31, 33 community members may visit sites and speak directly with Cabot employees regarding their concern. Programs for upgrading employee skills Our training program is managed on a site-by-site basis, according to the unique mix of each and transition assistance programs employee’s experience and skill set, career interests, and the core business objectives of the company. Our Developing Leaders and Plant Engineer Development programs offer flexible online GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 learning modules to promote mentoring and management skills, technical abilities, and cross-functional learning between different disciplines. Career transitioning is handled with sensitivity and commonly Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response includes outplacement services for future employment opportunities or retirement. 403-1 All manufacturing locations, regional offices, and service centers have joint health and safety 404-3 73.4% of employees received performance and career development reviews in 2016: Workers representation in formal joint management committees operating at the site level and reporting up to the corporate SH&E department. These Percentage of employees receiving regular – worker health and safety committees committees represent all workers and contractors. By Gender: performance and career development reviews u Male: 69.3% u Female: 87.6% 403-2 p. 29 By Employee Category: Types of injury and rates of injury (IR), Methods for calculating each metric are provided below: occupational diseases (ODR), u Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR): Number of injuries (employees and contractors) per 100 employees u Clerical / Technical: 58.3% lost days (LDR), absenteeism (AR), u Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR): Number of lost time injuries (employees and contractors) per 100 employees u Professional / Supervisor: 89.4% and number of work-related fatalities u Severity Rate: Number of lost work days (employees and contractors) per 100 employees u Management / Experienced: 93.4% u Process Safety Events (PSE): Defined by the Center for Chemical Process Safety as a “release of material or energy from a process that resulted in injury, fire or explosion, or release of flammable, GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 combustible or toxic chemicals.” PSEs are subdivided into tiers: a Tier 1 event is a loss of containment resulting in consequences including worker injuries that require lost days, fatalities, or direct Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response monetary loss of $25,000 due to a fire or explosion. A Tier 2 event is a loss of containment resulting in less severe consequences such as a recordable injury or loss of $2,500 due to fire or explosion. 405-1 For a description of our approach to diversity of employees, refer to p. 31. Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity of employees at the end of 2016: By Gender: u Male: 78% u Female: 22% 103-1 Refer to p. 36 for a description of Community Engagement materiality and boundaries, management Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries approach, and evaluation. By Age Group: u Under 30: 11% u 30-50: 58% u Over 50: 31% Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and 103-2 report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of Diversity of the Board of Directors at the end of 2016: The management approach and its components Compliance, or use the Cabot hot-line. Our manufacturing facilities have formal processes to engage By Gender: the local community, including the use of a Community Advisory Panel (CAP), and “Open Days” where u Male: 82% u Female: 18% 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach community members may visit sites and speak directly with Cabot employees regarding their concerns. By Age Group: u Under 30: 0% u 30-50: 9% u Over 50: 91% GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 413-1 p. 36 Operations with local community engagement, 406-1 No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2016. impact assessments, and development programs Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 50 CABOT CORPORATION 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51
