ALWAYS EVOLV NG https://www.teijin.com 2017 INTEGRATED REPORT Year ended March 31, 2017 This Integrated Report uses environmentally friendly FSCTM-certified paper. It is printed using a vegetable-based ink by a waterless printing method. Issued 2017.8 The Keystones of the Teijin Group Ceaseless Evolution and Ambition For People’s Life and Society Endeavoring to Provide New Solutions Teijin advances CSR activities that are strongly rooted in That Contribute to Enhancing the Quality of Life for All our corporate philosophy in order to realize better lives for people and a better society. The Teijin Group upholds its brand statement “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions” as its promise to society and its The basic goals of the Teijin Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) are articulated by our corporate philosophy of customers. Guided by this statement, we are globally expanding our businesses in materials, healthcare, and IT, as well “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” “In Harmony with Society,” and “Empowering Our People.” as in their respective overlapping domains. In line with our corporate philosophy, we continue striving to enhance the To realize better lives for people and a better society, we have formulated the CSR Basic Policy and are advancing CSR quality of life of people everywhere. activities that are strongly rooted in our corporate philosophy under the leadership of the Chief Social Responsibility Officer. We will continue to focus on technological innovation and to create and deliver unique solutions, i.e., value, in response to various global issues and needs. In doing so, the Teijin Group aims to be “an enterprise that is essential to tomorrow’s society,” and also to be a prominent, globally admired corporate group. Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy CSR Basic Policy (FY2017–FY2019) 1. Basic Stance: Sustainable Development of Business and Society Work positively and proactively on important issues related to corporate social responsibility such as the environEnhancing ment, society and governance (CSR materiality) with high sensitivity to aim for sustainable development of business the Quality of Life and society as “an enterprise that is essential to tomorrow’s society.” The Teijin Group’s purpose is to 2. Contribute to Society through Business enhance the quality of life Proactively grasp those problems that society needs to solve related to the environment, safety/security/disaster mitigation and health, and provide sustainable solutions to such problems through business. through a deep insight into In Harmony with Society human nature and needs, Empowering Our People 3. Appropriately Respond to Various Risks Manage various risks related to business activities appropriately such as corporate ethics and compliance, envitogether with the application of ronmental impacts, quality assurance, occupational safety, etc., and demonstrate strong resilience even when our creative abilities risks actualize. 4. Dialogue with Society to Improve Continuously Maintain positive dialogue with society and continuously improve these recognitions and practices. At the same time, contribute to gaining and maintaining social recognition as a “CSR advanced enterprise” globally. Brand Statement UN Global Compact Since 2011 the Teijin Group has endorsed and been a member of the UN Global Compact, Human Chemistry, Human Solutions which sets voluntary principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, to promote and practically implement high-quality CSR management as a Our promise is to keep delivering real value through the development of chemical technologies global company engaged in business. that are friendly to both people and the global environment, and through the provision of solutions that society and our customers expect. Editorial Policy Materiality and Comprehensiveness The Teijin Group Integrated Report 2017 was prepared as an The Teijin Group Integrated Report 2017 provides reporting Desired Communication Points CONTENTS integrated report to ensure that all stakeholders, including on highly material issues for the Teijin Group and society as a shareholders and investors, are able to obtain and understand whole. For more comprehensive and detailed information, in Each Chapter The keystones of the Teijin Group the Teijin Group’s financial information, such as business results please refer to Teijin’s corporate website in conjunction with and strategies, as well as non-financial information about the this report. social and environmental aspects of the Group. 4 Financial and Non-Financial Information TEIJIN TODAY Reporting Period 6 The Teijin Group’s Businesses This section clearly presents our key financial and nonUnless otherwise specified, this report covers the period from 8 The Teijin Group’s Large financial data, business activities and global operating April 2016 to March 2017. However, some activities in or after Global Business Network regions, so that readers are able to quickly gain an underApril 2017 are also included. Corporate Profile standing of the Teijin Group. Targeted reader base Reporting Organizations The report covers the entire Teijin Group (Teijin Limited and 58 SECTION OUR STORY domestic Group companies, and 111 overseas Group companies). Integrated Report Guidelines Referred To Regarding Disclosing Non-Financial Information Environmental Report Guidelines 2012 (Japan’s Ministry of the Teijin website The Management Team Presents 12 CEO Message Environment) Teijin’s Value Creation Story 20 Value Creation Model The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Fourth Edition, Global Small In this section, the CEO presents Teijin’s vision and the 21 Feature: Establish New Businesses to Reporting Initiative (GRI)) Content aspirations embodied therein, with a focus on the new Reshape the Future and the Outline and image Details and data This report contains standard disclosures from the GRI medium-term management plan for 2017–2019, “ALWAYS Supporting Management Base Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. EVOLVING.” Management also discusses strategies for Transformation Strategy Envisioned by Management the future transformation of the Teijin Group. SECTION BUS NESS REV EW Financial Information Non-Financial Information Review of Operations and Growth Strategies 32 Materials Business Field This section highlights the market presence of each busi37 Healthcare Business Field ness underpinning the Teijin Group’s core earnings and 40 IT Business performance in fiscal 2016, along with presenting strate41 R&D For Investors Corporate Social Responsibility Research & Development gies for achieving further growth based on the new https://www.teijin.com/ir/ (CSR) https://www.teijin.com/rd/ medium-term management plan for 2017–2019. https://www.teijin.com/csr/ SECTION Status of inclusion in SRI indices (as of July 2017) External Evaluations ESG N ACT ON 44 CSR Management The Teijin Group was evaluated about its initiatives for the environment and CSR, and for its Aiming For A Higher State of ESG transparency as regards information disclosure. As a result, we continue to be included in the The Teijin Group introduces the CSR issues that the Group 46 CSR Materiality following leading socially responsible investment (SRI) indices. considers important (CSR materiality) for the sustainable 48 Environment development of business and society, together with its 50 Society Dow Jones Sustainability Indices FTSE Blossom Japan Index associated initiatives. 52 Non-Financial Data Sheet 53 Governance FTSE4Good Index Series MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index 58 Overview of Directors Ethibel Investment Register MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) FACT DATA 60 Financial Highlights and Consolidated 11-Year Summary To help you know more about the Teijin Group, we have 62 Management’s Discussion and Analysis summarized our financial information together with other management information. 72 Consolidated Financial Statements 114 Independent Auditor’s Report 115 Independent Assurance Report Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 116 Corporate Data Any statements in this Integrated Report, other than those of historical fact, are forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Teijin Group, which are based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of information currently available and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from these forecasts. 2 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 3 TE J N TODAY Financial and Non-Financial Information Financial Information Non-Financial Information Net Sales (Billions of yen) Operating Income (Billions of yen) Profit (Loss) Attributable to Owners of Parent (Billions of yen) Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Chemical Substance Emissions*2 (Tons) Freshwater Consumption and Total Operating Margin (%) Return on Equity (ROE)*1 (%) Operations*1 (Total) (Million tons-CO2) Water Discharged*3 (Millions of Tons) 1,000 80 12 60 18 2.5 3,000 200 800 10 40 12 2.0 60 150 8 2,000 600 20 6 1.5 40 6 100 400 0 0 1.0 4 1,000 20 50 200 –20 –6 0.5 2 0 0 0 –40 –12 0 0 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) (Left scale) (Right scale) (Left scale) (Right scale) Domestic Overseas Freshwater consumption Total water discharged Operating income Operating margin Profit (Loss) attributable to ROE owners of parent ROIC (based on operating income)*2 (%) EBITDA*3 (Billions of yen) Free Cash Flow (Billions of yen) Waste with No Effective Use*4 (Tons) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates*5 Usage of the Counseling and Reporting System (Number of Cases) 15 150 50 6,000 1.25 100 12 120 1.00 25 75 4,000 9 90 0.75 0 50 6 60 0.50 2,000 –25 25 3 30 0.25 0 0 –50 0 0 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (Year) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) Teijin Group companies Average domestic manufacturing Capital Expenditure and Depreciation R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) Total Assets and Interest-Bearing Debt (Billions of yen) Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited CareerNumber of Employees Taking Number of Employees (Total) (People) and Amortization (Billions of yen) Debt-to-Equity Ratio*4 (Times) oriented Female University Graduates*6 (People/%) Childcare Leave*6 (People) 60 40 1,200 3.0 150 40 250 20,000 1,000 2.5 120 200 16,000 30 30 40 800 2.0 90 150 12,000 20 600 1.5 20 60 100 8,000 20 400 1.0 10 10 200 0.5 30 50 4,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (End of FY) ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) Capital expenditure Depreciation and amortization (Left scale) (Right scale) (Left scale) (Right scale) Female Male Domestic Overseas Total assets Debt-to-equity ratio Female Male Percentage of female Interest-bearing debt employees *1 ROE = Net income divided by average shareholders’ equity; Shareholders’ equity = Total net assets *1 Includes CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. For details about the method for calculating the amount of *4 Waste with no effective use refers to waste incinerated without heat recovery and waste for landfill. at year-end less subscription rights to shares at year-end and non-controlling interests at year-end CO2 emissions, please refer to page 49. *5 The lost time injury frequency rate is the number of lost time injuries per one million hours worked. *2 Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) based on operating income = Operating income divided by *2 Emissions of Class 1 chemical substances listed in the Chemical Substances Management Law and (Figures are calculated based on calendar years.) invested capital; Invested capital = Net assets plus interest-bearing debt minus cash and deposits chemical substances designated by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. The figures shown are Source: Survey on Industrial Accidents, Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare *3 Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) = Operating income plus the total of emissions into the atmosphere, soil and water, and landfill amount within business sites. *6 At the five core Group companies in Japan: Teijin Limited, Toho Tenax Co., Ltd., Teijin Pharma depreciation and amortization The Chemical Substances Management Law: law concerning reporting, etc., of releases to the Limited, Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd., Infocom Corporation *4 Debt-to-equity ratio = Interest-bearing debt at year-end divided by shareholders’ equity at year-end environment of specific chemical substances and promoting improvements in their management. *3 Freshwater consumption amount includes industrial water, groundwater and tap water. Water discharged includes seawater used for cooling. 4 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 5 TE J N TODAY The Teijin Group’s Businesses Materials 72.8% (539.8 billion yen) Healthcare 20.3% (150.7 billion yen) Material Business Group Breakdown of Healthcare Business Group We are expanding globally, with a focus on high-performance fibers, such as aramid fibers and carbon Consolidated We provide unique medical solutions by leveraging our strengths in both the pharmaceuticals and home fibers, as well as polycarbonate resin and polyester film. Net Sales healthcare fields. (in Fiscal 2016) Pharmaceuticals Home healthcare Principal products Principal applications ▪ ▪ Bone and joint disease: Respiratory disease: treatment for osteoporosis, etc. therapeutic oxygen concentrators, noninvasive posi▪ Aramid fibers ▪ Para-aramid fibers Aramid Friction products, tire ▪ Respiratory disease: tive pressure ventilator (NPPV) for sufferers of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), continuous positive airway reinforcements, rubber expectorant and treatment for bronchial asthma, etc. fibers reinforcements (hoses, belts), ▪ Cardiovascular and metabolic disease: pressure (CPAP) ventilators for the treatment of SAS ▪ Bone and joint disease: protective clothing, optical treatments for hyperurifiber reinforcements, civil Sonic Accelerated Fracture Healing System cemia and gout, and engineering materials ▪ hyperlipidemia, etc. Meta-aramid fibers ▪ Others: Firefighting uniforms, heat-resistant filters treatment for severe infectious diseases, ▪ Carbon fibers ▪ Carbon fibers laxatives, etc. Carbon ▪ Aircraft (structural and interior Oxidized PAN Fiber components), pressure vessels, fibers sports and leisure equipment New healthcare © AIRBUS We are pushing ahead with nurturing and growing new businesses in ▪ Polycarbonate resin ▪ Polycarbonate resin the healthcare business fields. Resin and Electrical and electronics compo▪ Orthopedic implantable devices nents, audiovisual (AV) and office plastics automation (OA) equipment, personal ▪ Functional food ingredients computer casings, smartphone ▪ New medical products processing camera lenses, automotive compo▪ Digital healthcare 2breathe, a wearable sensor Enhanced barley product nents (headlamps, door handles, etc.) Artificial joints and smartphone application BARLEYmax OA equipment that aids sleep ▪ PEN resin Films ▪ Polyester film ▪ Polyester film Release film for various proIT and Others 6.9% (50.8 billion yen) ▪ cesses, laminating film for beverage and food cans Polycarbonate film Consolidated net sales (in Fiscal 2016) 741.3 billion yen IT Business Group We provide various IT services, along with internet services such as and sheet Organic electroluminescent e-comics services. display (OLED) anti-reflective film, Electronic parts ▪ PEN film automotive instrument panels, (release films used in Business Solutions Digital Entertainment ▪ Polycarbonate film dummy cans for vending manufacturing processes) ▪ IT services for healthcare field ▪ e-comics distribution services and sheet machines ▪ GRANDIT, a fully web-based enterprise ▪ e-commerce services resource planning software package ▪ IT services for enterprises Principal products and services Principal products and services Polyester Fibers & Trading Composites and others and Retail Business Group ▪ Sale and international trading of fiber mateWe are pushing ahead with nurturing and growing ▪ Automotive composites rials, textiles and apparel, industrial textiles new businesses in the materials business fields. ▪ LIB separator We provide a wide range of solutions from and materials, and films and plastics materials development to providing prod▪ Plastic glazing ▪ Polyester and recycled polyester fabrics ucts, to meet a variety of needs in markets, and textiles in addition to undertaking integrated R&D, TEIJIN MEN’S SHOP Automotive material Automotive fender using the light LIB separator LIELSORT production and sales of polyester fibers. Ginza flagship store weight composite material TCA Ultra Lite 6 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 7 TE J N TODAY The Teijin Group’s Global Business Network Group companies Products sold in Overseas sales ratio The Teijin Group currently sells products in 83 countries around the world from a global network of 169 Group companies. The overseas sales ratio has reached 38.8%. 169 companies 83 countries 38.8% (As of March 31, 2017) Europe Americas Europe hosts aramid and carbon fiber The Americas region hosts carbon fiber, film, and other business sites. composites and other business sites. Asia We are developing business in the growing Asian Continental Structural market, where we have resin, polyester fiber, film and other business sites. Japan Plastics Holdings Corporation Japan hosts carbon fiber, polyester fiber, film and other business sites, and also provides a solid foundation for the healthcare business. Teijin Polycarbonate China Ltd. Teijin Aramid B.V. (Netherlands) Toho Tenax Europe GmbH Europe/Other Europe 8.3% 8.7% Americas 8.9% Asia 20.9% Net Sales Group Employees Teijin Polyester (Thailand) Limited Asia 741.3 billion 19,292 (In Fiscal 2016) 21.6% (As of March 31, 2017) Japan Japan 61.2% Americas 47.9% P.T. Indonesia Teijin Film Solutions 22.5% 8 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 9 SECT ON OUR STORY The Management Team Presents Teijin’s Value Creation Story How Will the Teijin Group Create New Value? In this section, the CEO presents Teijin’s vision and the aspirations embodied therein, with a focus on the new medium-term management plan for 2017–2019, “ALWAYS EVOLVING.” Management also discusses strategies for the future transformation of the Teijin Group. 12 CEO Message 20 Value Creation Model 21 Feature: Establish New Businesses to Reshape the Future and the Supporting Management Base Jun Suzuki, President and CEO Transformation Strategy Envisioned by Management 10 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 11 SECT ON : 1 OUR STORY CEO Message Fiscal 2016 Business Performance and the Status of Achievement Against the Previous Medium-Term Management Plan The Teijin Group Has Almost Completed Laying a Foundation for Advancing to its Next Stage of Growth In fiscal 2014, the Group announced the revised medium-term income of ¥50 billion and ROE of at least 8%. Looking at our management plan for fiscal 2014–2016. Under this plan, we business results for fiscal 2016, we recorded operating have been implementing initiatives based on two key priorities, income of ¥56.5 billion, surpassing our target. In addition, we specifically restructuring initiatives and transformation and posted record-high profit attributable to owners of parent of growth strategies. ¥50.1 billion, helped by the additional factor of deferred tax Our first priority was to dramatically restructure unprofitable assets recorded in connection with the withdrawal from the businesses. I believe that the Teijin Group has made progress U.S. home healthcare business. We also posted ROE of on restructuring initiatives largely as planned (1) and that it has 15.7%. However, we see this performance as just a milestone. developed the core earnings power needed to steadily generatThe Teijin Group is transforming into a business portfolio with ing operating income of over ¥50.0 billion. Our second priority new highly profitable businesses at the core. I believe we have was transformation and growth strategies. The Teijin Group has largely finished laying a foundation and securing the core strategically allocated resources to realize a solutions-oriented earnings power needed to achieve that transformation. business (2) by making investments of around ¥100.0 billion Indeed, the Teijin Group is now standing on the threshold of a over the past three years, beginning with the acquisition of CSP*. new beginning. Moreover, for fiscal 2016, the final fiscal year of the revised To Be an “Enterprise That Is Essential * Continental Structural Plastics Holdings Corporation, Headquarters: Michigan, U.S.A. medium-term management plan, we targeted operating to Tomorrow’s Society” Driven by the 1 Progress on Restructuring Initiatives Business FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Creation of Value Through Ceaseless Plastics Shut down Singapore plant Specialize in Evolution and Ambition Films Successively transfer production form Gifu to Utsunomiya in Japan Integrate domestic production Convert film business joint ventures in Japan high-value-added applications and Indonesia into wholly owned subsidiaries In February 2017, the Teijin Group announced a new medium-term management plan, titled Withdraw from the “ALWAYS EVOLVING” Medium-Term Management Plan For 2017–2019. The plan clearly articuHome Healthcare Streamline operations business in the U.S.* lates our aspirations and the actions we must take to be an “Enterprise that is Essential to Progressing as planned Close and cease Successively transfer Tomorrow’s Society,” as set forth in our long-term vision. Polyester Fibers production to Thailand production at certain domestic plants Our path to the future will involve many different changes, and will not merely be a continuation of current conditions. In order for Teijin to truly be an “Enterprise that is Essential to Tomorrow’s Society,” Raw Materials and Polymerization Cease DMT production Reorganize polymerization plant it will be imperative for us to identify and anticipate those changes as we continuously transform our * By transferring its entire equity interest in Braden Partners L.P. and Associated Healthcare Systems, Inc., both of which are consolidated subsidiaries, to an affiliate of Quadrant Management, Inc., own businesses. Moreover, I would like us to create new value and contribute to the evolution of sociwhich is an investment company in the U.S. ety. These aspirations are embodied in the plan’s slogan, “ALWAYS EVOLVING (Ceaseless Evolution 2 Progress on Transformation and Ambition).” The Teijin Group will mark its founding centennial in fiscal 2018. Over our past history and Growth Strategies Made strategic Acquired CSP of nearly a century, we have constantly embraced the spirit of ambition, and have pressed ahead with investments (Composites Business) expanding business, entering new fields and advancing globalization. We remain committed to ceaseIntensively allocated of around Founded Teijin Nakashima Established the Technology lessly surveying the future and being a challenge seeker that initiates self-transformation. In the followresources to realize a solutions-oriented ¥100 billion Medical Co., Ltd. Integrated Pharmaceutics Center ing pages, I would like to discuss the Teijin Group’s evolution and ambition. (FY2014–16 total) (Artificial Joint Business) (Advanced Medical Materials Business) business 12 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 13 SECT ON : 1 For details about the underlined phrases, OUR STORY please refer to the following. · Growth Strategy P31 · Transformation Strategy P21 CEO Message New Medium-Term Management Plan Envisioning the Teijin Group Ten Years in the Future Transform Businesses and Open a New Chapter and Clarifying the Actions We Must Now Take Business Portfolio Transformation In February 2017, the Teijin Group announced a new medium-term management plan for 2017–2019. This plan was not developed In my vision for Teijin ten years in the future, the Materials and existing businesses, we will realize this vision by developing new by merely projecting current conditions into the future. Rather, it was drawn up by first envisioning the Teijin Group ten years in the Healthcare business fields will be the company’s two major businesses that are not yet contributing to profits at present into future and then clarifying our action plans for the next three years to realize this vision. pillars of operations, and these two businesses will be supnew highly profitable businesses that will serve as the core of ported by an ICT platform. Besides driving the growth of Teijin, thereby achieving business portfolio transformation. Corporate Philosophy and Vision We have long embraced the Teijin Group Corporate ever-changing social trends and consumer needs. The Philosophy, “Quality of Life,” and it has served as a crucial following three points clarify our vision for the type of enterprise reference point for envisioning the Teijin Group ten years in the we aspire to be: future. In order to continue to realize this Corporate Philosophy as society faces many issues and needs, we have reformulated New New our long-term vision as follows: “Teijin will become an enter1. An enterprise that helps to solve social issues Business Business prise that is essential to tomorrow’s society by continuously 2. An enterprise that achieves continuous transformation by creating value.” Put differently, being “an enterprise that is anticipating changes in the external environment Composites and New Healthcare essential to tomorrow’s society” means being a “QOL 3. An enterprise that continues to create new value at all times Components business business Transformation Innovator” that creates innovation to enhance people’s quality Strategy of life through the delivery of solutions that accurately capture Expand business to New business centered on for new businesses downstream fields targeting fields outside of public transportation insurance Identifying our Core Priority Fields How should we address the various demands of society, and IT how can we help to solve the issues it faces? IT ICT Taking a fresh look at the nature of our characteristics and platfo rm strengths, we believe that the Teijin Group has built up a unique business platform spanning the three different fields of Teijin’s Strengths HighIntegration Healthcare Materials, Healthcare and IT. We have identified environmenperformance tal value; safety, security and disaster mitigation; and demoMaterials Healthcare Materials graphic changes and increased health consciousness as our Growth Strategy three core priority fields where we will be able to leverage our Capture for existing businesses strengths and capture business opportunities. Contribute Materials Healthcare Business I’m confident that we will make an even greater contribution to Society Business Field Business Field Opportunities to solving social issues by delivering solutions in these core priority fields. While maximizing business opportunities, we will Environmental Value Solutions Contribute by supplying weight-reducing materials that help to take the initiative to accomplish business portfolio transforenhance the environmental performance of transportation mation through ceaseless evolution and ambition. That will be Transformation and Growth Strategies one of our most important themes for achieving sustainable Safety, Security and Disaster Mitigation Solutions Our growth strategy encompasses activities to further business model transformation. The profits generated by the growth over the medium and long terms. Help to enhance safety with respect to disaster-readiness measures strengthen the company’s core earnings power by continugrowth strategy for existing businesses will fund the resources and social infrastructure development ously enhancing the competitiveness of our existing busito be allocated to the transformation strategy. Based on these nesses. Meanwhile, our transformation strategy encompasses two strategies, we will strive to continuously create and Demographic Change and Increased Health activities to ambitiously enter different fields than our existing develop businesses that lead to growth in profits. Consciousness Solutions Support health maintenance and enhancement in response to the probusinesses and create new products and services through gression of demographic change and the increase in lifestyle diseases 14 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 15 SECT ON : 1 For details about the underlined phrases, OUR STORY please refer to the following. · Information & Innovation Strategy P30 · Global Business Strategy P30 CEO Message As the main pillar of the transformation strategy, we will public insurance, such as nursing care, disease prevention accelerate expansion of the automotive composites business in the Materials Business field. Teijin will transform its previous and pre-symptomatic care. The concrete vision for our transformation strategy is discussed in greater detail by Senior Investment Efficiency and Earnings Power as Top Priorities business model as a supplier of single types of materials into a Executive Officers in charge of the Materials and Healthcare supplier of automotive components. That in itself represents a businesses later in this report. Management Targets ROE and EBITDA major transformation in our business model. In the Healthcare (Please refer to page 22 onward.) Under the new medium-term management plan, we have Business field, we will expand our business to fields outside of established new key performance indicators with an emphasis Profitability Indicators Growth Indicators on both investment efficiency and earnings power. As our most Build a Solid Management System Platform and important indicators, we have set ROE as a profitability indicator and EBITDA as a growth indicator. Since the revised medium-term management plan was forAccelerate Growth and Transformation Strategies ROE*1 EBITDA*2 mulated in fiscal 2014, we have been emphasizing profitability, and we intend to retain this approach in the future. We have 10%+ Over ¥120 billion adopted ROE, which represents the investment returns on Strengthen the Management System Platform funds entrusted to the company by shareholders, as a profitGroup-wide and On the organizational front, we restructured our organization (3) Additionally, in the course of creating new businesses and Group-wide For Each Business ability indicator to pursue investment efficiency. We are targeting into two broad business fields, specifically Materials and changing business styles, we cannot overlook the role of IT, an ROE of 10% or more. To ensure that we achieve this ROE Healthcare, in order to accelerate our growth and transformation which has recently been evolving exponentially through artificial target on a Group-wide basis, we will utilize ROIC based on operating income as an indicator of the efficiency of generating strategies. We will promote inter-business integration by incorintelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT). That is why we profits relative to invested resources. Specifically, through factor porating materials-related businesses into the Materials have established the new post of Information & Innovation analysis of ROIC, we will translate this KPI into targets for the Business field. In parallel, coordination will be deepened by Strategy Officer to provide Group-wide control of various ROIC*3 front lines of each business site. Doing so will enable us to make splitting up New Business Development into units for materials “Smart Projects” designed to proactively introduce and apply use of ROIC in activities such as investment decisions, inventory and healthcare businesses. In the process, we will formulate cutting-edge IT to our businesses. Going forward, we plan to 8%+ management, productivity enhancements, and cost reductions. specific strategies with a stronger awareness than before of how allocate resources of around ¥10.0 billion primarily to informaGroup-wide and Meanwhile, as a means of ensuring growth while avoiding a For Each Business we allocate resources for the short term and medium to long tion platform construction. Moreover, we have established the contraction of business due to an over-emphasis on efficiency, term, and how we do so between existing and new businesses. new post of Global Business Strategy Officer in order to control we have set a target for EBITDA, which represents operating regional strategies across businesses on a global basis. income before depreciation and amortization, as a growth indicator. With this target, we will seek to increase our ability to 3 Restructuring of Organizational Structure generate cash to fund growth investments and shareholder Integrate returns. We are targeting EBITDA of over ¥120 billion in three Advanced Fibers and Composites years. Considering that our transformation strategy will be Information & Innovation Strategy Officer Electronic Materials and Performance Materials making a full-scale contribution to earnings ten years in the Global Business Strategy Officer Polymer Products future, we are targeting EBITDA of over ¥200 billion at that Business Field time, which would be more than double the current level. (4) Trading and Retail 4 EBITDA*2 (Billions of yen) New Business Development Business Unit Split Healthcare +23 –18 Healthcare Business Field +20 Intensified +20 Transformation competition/ strategy Revisions to NHI Advance IT Growth strategy drug price development costs, reimbursements etc. Over Others IT Business and others Restructuring initiatives/ CAGR Over 8% 200 Cost reductions (Compound Annual Growth Rate) Over 96 120 We aim to realize cost benefits of ¥11.0 billion compared with into a “Small Head Office” commensurate with business scale fiscal 2016 by strengthening product cost competitiveness after the implementation of restructuring initiatives, along with through such means as productivity enhancements and boostenhancing productivity through such means as streamlining the ing energy efficiency, in addition to completing restructuring organization, centralizing operations, and developing informa’16 ’19 ’25 (FY) initiatives laid out in the revised medium-term management tion infrastructure. Through all of these cost restructuring initia*1 ROE = Net income divided by average shareholders’ equity; Shareholders’ equity = Total net assets at year-end less subscription rights to shares at year-end and non-controlling interests at year-end *2 Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) = Operating income plus depreciation and amortization plan, which was formulated in fiscal 2014. In addition, we aim tives, we aim to reduce total costs by ¥20.0 billion in the three *3 Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) = Operating income divided by invested capital; Invested capital = Net assets plus interest-bearing debt minus cash and deposits to realize rationalization benefits of ¥9.0 billion by restructuring years from fiscal 2017 to 2019. 16 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 17 SECT ON : 1 For details about the underlined phrases, OUR STORY please refer to the following. · Reduction of Environmental Impact P48 · Corporate Governance P53 CEO Message · Diversity P50 Resource Allocation and Shareholder Returns redouble our efforts to fulfill our accountability to shareholders theme. Accordingly, we intend to step up the promotion of and investors and gain their understanding through dialogue, diversity more than ever. The Teijin Group endorses and is a During the medium-term management plan from fiscal 2017 to use of external resources by M&As, in addition to capital expendithereby paving the way for future growth and development. member of the United Nations Global Compact, which sets 2019, we will invest resources of around ¥300 billion, combining ture for composites, LIB separators and membranes in the In addition, strengthening human resources and harnessing forth ten principles related to human rights, labor, the environcapital expenditure and the M&A budget. For our growth strategy, Materials field, and orthopedic implantable devices in the healththe strengths of diverse personnel are vital to our future. Under ment and anti-corruption. Moving ahead, we will keep mobilizwe will allocate resources to increasing carbon fiber production care field. In addition, we will continuously allocate around 5% of the medium-term management plan, diversity, including woming the Teijin Group’s collective strengths as we aspire to be a capacity and investing in healthcare systems. For our transformanet sales to research and development expenses in order to en’s advancement, has been defined as a transformation prominent enterprise that is admired around the globe. tion strategy, we will allocate resources to projects essential to nurture future core businesses. business portfolio transformation, including proactively making Capital expenditure R&D expenses Dividend payout ratio Count on the Teijin Group to Make Major Strides MediumCAPEX + M&A budget Around 5% of net sales 30% Toward its Next Centennial term ¥300 billion (FY2017–2019 total) Development budget for transformation strategy: of net income Three years have passed since I was appointed as the CEO of medium-term management plan, we have clarified anew our Targets Allocate 50%+ of capital expenditure to growth and secure approx. 30% transformation strategies the Teijin Group. We can view the past few years as a vision for the Teijin Group. Accordingly, we are sincerely deterrebuilding period focused on reestablishing our profitability mined to make steadfast efforts to bring the Teijin Group closer and laying the groundwork for new growth and transformato our vision. For growth and · Composites For transforma· Composites/LIB Dividend per tion strategies. The next three years, which will span Teijin’s We look forward to our stakeholders’ ongoing support and separators and transformation · Increase carbon tion strategy membranes share of founding centennial in 2018, will mark a new beginning for understanding as we endeavor to drive ceaseless evolution fiber production strategies Approx. 25% · New healthcare business ¥60 the Teijin Group—one that will see us make major strides and ambition. FY2017 capacity (including · Advance through Approx. 50% new plant in the U.S.) towards the Teijin Group’s next centennial. In the new Plan For growth development phases of · Battery materials, strategy drug discovery others · Strengthen materials Approx. 75% platform technology While proactively advancing resource allocations, our basic through the restructuring initiatives undertaken to date. As a policy on shareholder returns will be to provide a steady diviresult, we believe we will be able to maintain financial soundJun Suzuki dend in line with consolidated operating results. We will target a ness even as we implement both such aforementioned Born in Tokyo in 1958. Joined Teijin Limited in consolidated dividend payout ratio of 30% of net income for the resource allocations and shareholder returns. 1983 and was engaged in pharmaceuticals medium term. We have built up steady core earnings power development. Appointed Corporate Officer and Chief Marketing Officer in April 2012, after serving as President of Teijin Holdings Netherlands B.V. in 2011. Assumed the post of Executive Officer and General Manager, Advanced Fibers and To Sustainably Enhance Corporate Value Composites Business Group in April 2013 and Director, Executive Officer in June 2013. Appointed President and Chief Executive Officer I have already explained how we will identify business opportuas well as corporate governance and diversity, as core (CEO) in April 2014. nities while contributing to society. Meanwhile, I also believe priority fields in the medium-term management plan. Activities that our activities to address various requirements from enviin each of these fields will be essential to further strengthening ronmental, social, governance and other perspectives will have our management base. an equally significant bearing on our corporate value in future. With regard to reduction of environmental impacts, Teijin has The Teijin Group has identified its material CSR themes (materilong worked to address this issue as a chemicals manufacality), and is working to address those themes in order to turer. Going forward, we will step up our efforts to reduce enhance its corporate value. These material CSR themes have greenhouse gas emissions based on the Paris Agreement, and been determined based on consideration of the priorities that to practice sustainable water use and management, which is the international community is making a concerted effort to included in the SDGs. address, such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Strengthening corporate governance is also essential to of the United Nations and the Paris Agreement within the sound and sustainable growth. Thus far, we have worked to United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. put in place a governance framework to ensure higher transNotably, Teijin has identified reduction of environmental impacts, parency and faster decision-making. Going forward, we will 18 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 19 SECT ON : 1 OUR STORY Value Creation Model In line with our long-term vision of becoming “An Enterprise that is Essential to Tomorrow’s Society,” which is the basic goal underlying the Teijin Group’s value creation activities, we leverage and integrate the strengths of our three businesses of materials, healthcare, and IT, and we continue to create value that meets the varied issues and needs of the world through the fusion of our various businesses. MATER ALS Materials Business Field Long-term Vision P22 An Enterprise That Is Essential To Tomorrow’s Society HEALTHCARE Value provided Healthcare Business Field Safety, Demographic P26 Environmental change and Security and value Increased health Disaster mitigation consciousness Help to solve social issues Protect human lives and Support the healthy and concerning the global natural environment daily life from a variety of risks positive lives of all people Feature Establish New Businesses to Reshape the Future and the Ceaseless Evolution and Ambition Environment “ALWAYS EVOLV NG” Anticipate Supporting Management Base Reduction of environmental impacts Conservation of biodiversity Value Creation changes in customers’ needs and Transformation Strategy Envisioned by Management Society Diversity Product liability/ society Quality assurance Composites and New CSR procurement Components Healthcare Strengthen the technology base Innovation projects Governance Corporate Open innovation GLOBAL governance IT ICT Corporate ethics ICT Strengthen marketing base and compliance pla tform Marketing education Materials Healthcare Technology lore CSR activities rooted in our T corporate Global Strategy philosophy P30 Enhancing the In Harmony Quality of Life Empowering with Society our People Information Strategy P30 Corporate Philosophy 20 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 21 SECT ON : 1 OUR STORY Composites and New Components Healthcare Feature Establish New Businesses to Reshape the Future and the Supporting Management Base IT Transformation Strategy Envisioned by Management Materials Healthcare Materials Business Field Ceaseless We have ceaselessly advanced measures targeting Evolution and Ambition Lies in multiple materials and composites ahead of Transforming from a single-type Our Genes contemporary trends. Teijin was founded as the equivalent of a modern-day venture business, spawned from university Materials Supplier to research. The Company was born in the process of commercializing the development of Japan’s first a Multi-Material Component technology for manufacturing semi-synthetic rayon fibers. After World War II, Teijin’s main operations underwent an evolution from rayon to polyester. The Company then worked to commercialize new materials in stride with the changing times. Our strengths lie in our basic technologies for materials that we have Supply Partner developed by pursuing cutting-edge technology development. Since its founding, Teijin has handed down an entrepreneurial spirit that compels us to pioneer new businesses, and this evolution and ambition has been inherited in our genes. To rise above the increasingly fierce competition among multiple materials, we will strive to transform our business model by integrating various high-performance materials and by devel◼ ‌Net Sales of Transformation Strategy Projects oping composites from those materials. In the process, we will continue to deliver new value to for Materials Business Field (Billions of yen) our customers. 250 200 The History of Teijin Materials 150 Business 100 50 Yasumichi Takesue Para-aramid fiber Senior Executive Officer, Twaron Member of the Board FY2016 Acquisition of President, Material Business of 0 ’16 ’17 ’19 ’25 (FY) Teijin Group Rayon fibers Para-aramid fiber Continental Structural Technora Plastics Holdings Corporation Composites LIB Separators and Meta-aramid fiber Membranes Polyester fibers Teijinconex Plastic Glazing Polyester Carbon fiber Tenax films Transform Polycarbonate resins 1918– 1960s 1980s 2016– Entered synthetic Diversification Shift to highfibers business of materials performance fibers Shift to composites Our Vision Materials Supplier Composites Using Multiple Materials Macro Technological Competition among Globalization Trends innovation in materials multiple materials 22 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 23 SECT ON : 1 OUR STORY Feature Establish New Businesses to Reshape the Future and the Supporting Management Base Transformation Strategy Envisioned by Management Expanding the Automotive Composites Business Acquisition of CSP Accelerate the Expansion of the Composites Business Expectations for Reducing Vehicle Weight Are Rising Reducing Vehicle Weight Through New Materials In January 2017, Teijin acquired all of the shares of CSP, the world’s largest sheet molding compound (SMC) manufacturer for automakers. The company is a leading automotive Looking ahead, environmental regulations are expected to There is a growing movement to reduce the weight of vehicomposite supplier in North America and Tier 1 manufacturer of automobile components become even more stringent around the world. Therefore, cles by replacing metals in automotive components with using thermoset composites such as glass fiber reinforced plastic (GFRP). improving fuel economy and reducing CO2 emissions have new materials. Moreover, CSP is a global industry leader in well-designed external components known become an urgent priority for all automakers. Carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) is attracting signifias Class A components in the automotive industry. CSP already has an extensive track record based on the supply of Technological innovation is currently being pursued on cant promise as a material capable of reducing vehicle weight numerous components to not only U.S. but also European and Japanese many different fronts to improve fuel economy. In this environto the bare minimum without compromising safety. If CFRP automakers. ment, one of the most promising approaches to improving could be used to reduce the weight of the vehicle frame, Looking ahead, we will make full use of CSP’s superior component design, fuel economy is to reduce vehicle weight. Reducing the which is the heaviest structural component of a vehicle, we production technology, quality control and expertise to strengthen our ability to weight not only of gasoline vehicles, but also of hybrid and would be able to further reduce the size and weight of engines propose component solutions encompassing materials selection to component electric vehicles, is eagerly expected to offer significant beneand other components. This would lead to a dramatic reducdesign. These solutions will utilize CSP’s GFRP and Teijin’s CFRP, and will also fits in terms of fuel economy. tion in overall vehicle weight. For this reason, various ways of consider the use of many other different materials. adopting CFRP in vehicle frames are now being considered. Concurrently, we will work to establish a stable supply configuration on a global basis by taking full advantage of Teijin’s global network. ◼ ‌The Knock-on Benefits of Reducing the Weight of Vehicle Frames Engine weight With a 170 kg Down 66% reduction in the weight of the vehicle frame Thermoplastic CFRP Sereebo Transmission Weight of steering, weight The Immense Potential of Thermoplastic CFRP Down 10% The weight is brake and suspension Weight of electronic One of the major challenges facing conventional CFRP was the difficulty of only 47 kg! Down 11% components Weight of other mass production. Down 10% components Source: 2010 JSAE Symposium No.01-10, In response, Teijin has successfully developed thermoplastic CFRP using therDown 30% Current Status and Future of moplastic resin, which had been considered difficult to apply to CFRP. As a Automotive Environmental and Energy Technologies result, we have realized one-minute takt time technology for thermoplastic CFRP Achieve an approx. 35% reduction in overall vehicle weight by dramatically simplifying the manufacturing process, thereby paving the way for its use in mass-produced vehicles. Thermoplastic CFRP can be easily reshaped after molding, making this material ideal for reuse and reforming. Therefore, thermoplastic CFRP could potentially help to reduce environmental impact across the entire product life cycle, including Concept car body-framework using thermoplastic CFRP Composites Will Transform Automobiles after product use. We are currently pursuing joint development of Teijin’s thermoplastic CFRP brand Sereebo together with several automakers worldwide, in anticipation of its application to mass-produced automotive components. The ecosystem of the automobile industry is being changed dramatically by trends such as innovation in engines and drive systems, technological advances such as ICT and automated driving, and increasingly stringent environment regulations. In automotive components, competition is expected to intensify among various mateLIB Separator and Membrane Business Meanwhile, we have also started to commercialize highperformance microporous membranes, based on our molding rials as integrating multiple materials according to safety and cost requirements Demand is also expected to grow for separators used in technologies and related expertise developed over the years. becomes mainstream. However, we see this increased competition as a business lithium-ion batteries (LIBs), in step with the expansion of marBeginning with semiconductor applications, we aim to deploy opportunity, not a threat. kets for smartphones, tablets, and automotive batteries. them in a broad range of applications, from energy applications By making CSP a member of the Teijin Group through the acquisition, Teijin has LIELSORT is an LIB separator developed by Teijin using to medical devices. expanded its business fields, transforming itself from a single-type materials supproprietary polymer and coating technologies. It has earned a plier into a components supplier. Leveraging our strengths in composites technolostrong reputation for its superior heat resistance and adhesion gies developed to date, we will evolve into a “component supply partner” for performance. Ever since the start of LIELSORT production in automakers—a partner that is able to address the use of multiple materials and 2012, Teijin has been posting steady growth in LIELSORT sales propose various products including composites such as GFRP*1 and CFRP*2. as a leading supplier of coated separators. *1 Glass fiber reinforced plastic (GFRP) *2 Carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) Looking ahead, we will work to further deploy LIB separators in automotive applications and applications for large-scale storage batteries, in addition to growing sales for use in smartphones and tablets. 24 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 25 SECT ON : 1 OUR STORY Composites and New Components Healthcare Feature Establish New Businesses to Reshape the Future and the Supporting Management Base IT Transformation Strategy Envisioned by Management Materials Healthcare Ceaseless We aim to drive further business expansion based on Healthcare Business Field Evolution and Ambition Lies in our business platform in pharmaceuticals and home Our Genes healthcare with a history of over 40 years. Delivering New Comprehensive Our launch of the healthcare business can be traced back to the 1970s. Since then, we have steadily undertaken in-house research and development activities spanning both pharmaceuticals and medical devices, in conjunction with focusing on priority fields, specifically bone and joint, cardiovascular and metabolic and Healthcare Services respiratory diseases. In addition, the Teijin Group became a pioneer by developing Japan’s first home oxygen therapy (HOT) business and today boasts a customer base with the top market share* in Japan. As healthcare needs continue to diversify, Teijin will work to establish an even more innovative business platform Beyond Existing Insurancefor healthcare by leveraging technologies and expertise amassed over the past 40 plus years. Based Services To address diversifying needs, we will strive to transform our business model by expanding our business to new fields without restricting ourselves to existing insurance-based healthcare services. * Estimated from external reports and Teijin’s rental volume ◼ ‌Net Sales of Transformation Strategy Projects for Healthcare Business Field (Billions of yen) 150 The History of Digital Healthcare Teijin Healthcare Business 100 Home ICT, VitalLink New Medical Products 50 CPAP ventilators for the Transform Community Hiroshi Uno Therapeutic oxygen concentrators treatment of SAS Healthcare Support Senior Executive Officer, Member of the Board Begin R&D in 0 President, Healthcare oxygen enriched ’16 ’17 ’19 ’25 (FY) Business of Teijin Group membranes 2016– Expand business from 2000s prevention to treatment Home Advances in networks and nursing care 1980– and digitalization Healthcare Shift to service businesses Orthopedic implantable devices 1990s Focus on priority fields Advanced medical (Bone and joint, cardiovascular and Transform materials metabolic, respiratory diseases) Functional food ingredients* * Not classified as Foods with Function Claims. Artificial joints Established Teijin Osteoporosis treatment Pharma­ Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Osteoporosis Bonalon® Hyperuricemia and gout treatment Feburic® ceuticals treatment Onealfa® Our Vision Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Services Provide Comprehensive Services Expand horizons from disease Macro Shift from treatment in Longer healthy life expectancy to pre-symptomatic care Trends hospitals to home care Growth in generic drugs Curtailing medical costs 26 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 27 SECT ON : 1 OUR STORY Feature Establish New Businesses to Reshape the Future and the Supporting Management Base Transformation Strategy Envisioned by Management Provide Comprehensive Healthcare Services Strengthening Our Cutting-Edge Healthcare Business Platform Establishing Data Platforms Using AI and IoT Impacts of a Progressively Aging Society How to Address New Healthcare Needs Looking ahead, we will work to enhance patient care support through in-home nursing care services and clinical support using communication devices. At the same time, we will take steps to ensure our medical products are IoT enabled and to With the aging of society progressing apace in Japan, the Disease prevention is rapidly becoming more and more apply AI to home healthcare call centers. Through these steps, we aim to establish healthcare data platforms. number of people contracting lifestyle diseases, multiple disimportant as a means of curtailing medical costs and In addition, in 2015, we commenced sales of VitalLink, a multidisciplinary collaboration and information sharing system. eases is expected to increase sharply. Burgeoning medical responding to people’s desire to lead long lives due to good VitalLink will serve as a platform to provide the aforementioned cutting-edge healthcare services, and is positioned as a costs in line with the increase in the number of people requirhealth. It has also become necessary to develop a social crucial infrastructure that will support our transformation strategy. By supporting team-based healthcare involving both ing care presents a major issue for society as a whole. environment that encourages behavior that is beneficial to doctors and medical staff, these efforts are expected to help realize high-quality care for patients along with improving the In terms of medical infrastructure, shortfalls in the number of health, including a proper diet, and suitable levels of exercise productivity of medical professionals. hospital beds and nursing care facilities are expected to and sleep, to prevent the onset of lifestyle diseases and the Through this organic collaboration between services and data, we will establish a cutting-edge healthcare business platbecome increasingly acute in step with the increase in the aggravation of those diseases. form. Combined with regional healthcare networks, we aim to provide even higher caliber healthcare services. number of people requiring care in such facilities. As a result, Another major theme is to develop a comprehensive comthe need for home medical and nursing care is anticipated to munity healthcare system. This is essentially a platform that increase further in the years ahead. will allow people to comprehensively receive prevention and nursing care, as well as treatment for diseases, in the familiar surroundings of their local communities. Comprehensive community healthcare will also provide an important means of Diversify the Lineup of Products and Services countering the anticipated shortfall in hospital beds and nursing care facilities going forward. Delivering New Products and Services Using Our Own Business Platform Furthermore, the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and analysis 未病 疾病 介護 of big data driven by innovation in IT are expected to contribIn addition to those new medical products, including rehabilitation robotics, that we have already begun marketing, we aim ute immensely to the development of preventive healthcare, to introduce and 未病 supply 疾病 diagnostic介護 and treatment products using ICT in fields such as the cranial nervous system in the including guidance on healthy lifestyles. With significant near future. Moreover, as the use of digital healthcare continues to increase, we aim to expand new services in fields such 未病 疾病 介護 advances being made in digital healthcare and telemedicine, as sleep wellness and nursing care. the application of IT to healthcare is opening up new possibiliFurthermore, 未病 in the orthopedic 疾病 implantable 介護 devices business, we will press ahead with business expansion in the fields of ties for generating previously unseen solutions. artificial joints and bone-bonding materials, led by Teijin Nakashima Medical Co., Ltd. In other areas, specifically the functional food ingredients business, we will expand our product lineup alongside the enhanced barley product that is currently on the market. ◼ ‌Upgrading and Expanding the Product and Service Lineup Targeting Comprehensive Services Encompassing Non-Insurance Fields 2breathe Cranial nervous The concept of healthcare businesses is set to undergo a dramatic change. system New diagnosis Application of In this environment, companies such as Teijin that are developing healthcare and treatment new materials products businesses must also significantly change their approaches. Rehabilitation using ICT Nursing care We envision a future in which we meet the many and varied healthcare New Medical Products IT services FY2019 needs of people by expanding our business from the insurance-based Diseases Nursing Care healthcare services centered on the treatment of diseases we have underNemLink Sleep wellness taken to date, to non-insurance business fields such as pre-symptomatic, coaching Digital Healthcare preventive care and nursing care. Bone-bonding Over the years, the Healthcare Business has developed strengths Pre-Symptomatic Care Nursing Care materials Expand lineup Artificial joints of super grains such as the expertise needed to obtain clinical evidence and the capability of foreseeing the benefits that will be generated by new services. Orthopedic Implantable Devices We are determined to expand our comprehensive healthcare services Diseases Super barley based on those strengths. We will proactively allocate resources to new fields. For example, we will Functional Food Ingredients pursue collaboration on a nursing care platform with Infocom Corporation, Pre-Symptomatic Care FY2016 an IT subsidiary, as well as provide digital support services for health management and develop rehabilitation equipment. BARLEYmax 28 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 29 SECT ON : 1 OUR STORY Feature Establish New Businesses to Reshape the Future and the Supporting Management Base Transformation Strategy Envisioned by Management Global Strategy Regional Strategies Based on the Characteristics of Each Business To date, Teijin has been working tirelessly to advance the globalization of its operations. In fiscal 2016, overseas sales businesses, we are promoting the development of a wide range of applications with a view to expanding globally. In the SECT ON represented around 40% of net sales. Following the acquisition Healthcare Business, we must develop business based on an of CSP in the U.S. in January 2017, the ratio of overseas sales awareness of the healthcare systems in each country. is expected to increase even further. Considering these business characteristics, we will strengthen Global business expansion can take many different forms. regional management structures straddling businesses in For example, in the Materials Business, there are businesses order to realize synergies as a group, and work to develop that are at the stage of focusing on cutting-edge development systems to efficiently manage overseas businesses and with specific customers in developed countries, while in other formulate regional strategies. Yoshihisa High Expand Globally Materials Supply Businesses Cultivate demand globally, in tandem with Closer to Customers Composites Business (Auto & Aircraft) Promote development and expand business BUS NESS The Need for Globalization Sonobe conducting optimal production in terms of globally by constantly anticipating needs, while REV EW location and scale, on the basis of customers closely approaching key customers in each Executive Officer, and regions that have highly commended the region, centered on Europe and the Americas Member of the Board properties of our materials Chief Officer (Global Business Strategy) Advanced Aging Country Healthcare business Expand business in pharmaceuticals and home healthcare according to regional characteristics (pharmaceutical jurisprudence, medical fees, etc.) Low The Importance of Addressing Individual Regions High Review of Operations and Growth Strategies This section highlights the market presence of each business underpinning the Teijin Group’s core earnings and performance in fiscal 2016, along with Information Strategy Taking Business Models to a Higher Level Through Innovation in IT presenting strategies for achieving further growth based on the Innovation in IT is now reshaping society at an exponential We see innovation in IT as a major business opportunity for pace, with hardly a day passing without some news of creating new business and changing business styles. new medium-term management plan for fiscal 2017–2019. advances in AI or IoT. Whether manufacturing materials or Accordingly, we will promote “smart projects” as Group-wide providing healthcare services, we cannot ignore this sweepinitiatives. Under the new medium-term management plan ing trend. FY2017–2019, we will allocate resources of around ¥10 billion to smart projects, centered on information platform construction. Current Initiatives Medium-term Kazuhiro Yamamoto Actions and Targets Executive Vice President, Representative Director of the Board ■■ Healthcare Deploy Healthcare Services Chief Information & Innovation Officer Materials Business Field Healthcare Business Field Monitoring systems for home Deploy various services based on 32 Materials Business Field  (Billions of yen)  (Billions of yen) healthcare devices information platforms Net Sales Operating Income Net Sales Operating Income Construct information platform Objectively capture and Convert to Smart Plants 37 Healthcare Business Field 640.0 35.0 150.7 155.0 30.0 (VitalLink) 31.2 harness Convert to automated processes ■■ Materials innovations in Visualize production processes and 40 IT Business 539.8 24.8 IT technology improve productivity Utilize IoT technology to improve productivity Operating Process Innovation 41 R&D ■■ IT Digitalization of business IoT activity trial, app processes and databasing development, AI research Develop next-generation information infrastructure and tools ’16 ’17 ’16 ’17 (FY) ’16 ’17 ’16 ’17 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) (Forecast) (Forecast) * Forecast announced on August 1, 2017 30 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 31 SECT ON : 2 BUS NESS REV EW ©AIRBUS MATER ALS Material Business Group Aramid Fibers Resin and Plastics Processing ■■Market Presence & Business Opportunities used in special environment uniforms such as those worn by ■■Market Presence & Business Opportunities ■■Fiscal 2016 Performance firefighters, and other industrial materials where heat resisSteady performance by polycarbonate resins Global share Meta-aramid fiber Polycarbonate resins Providing high added tance is required. Our mainstay Panlite and Multilon polycarbonate resin of para-aramid fibers Teijinconex for in Asia value through products saw firm supply-demand dynamics, and maintained Twaron and Technora firefighting uniforms in Japan ■■Fiscal 2016 Performance Top share Teijin’s proprietary Approx. 50% (1st) Top share Solid performance mainly in automotive applications In para-aramid fibers, sales of Twaron expanded firmly for technologies Polycarbonate resins possess an impact resistance 200 times high capacity utilization at both production sites in China and Japan. To further expand high-performance applications, we are actively expanding sales in the automotive market. We are Aramid fibers possess outstanding features such as highautomotive applications in Europe, but sales of oil drilling and greater than glass, but are lighter at just half the weight. Other also pushing ahead with sales in growing markets such as strength, heat resistance, dimensional stability and chemical ballistic protection applications were weak. Technora is being properties include outstanding heat resistance, transparency housing, along with promoting composite materials that comresistance properties. They can be divided into two broad used in an expanding range of applications. Sales were firm and weatherability. These resins are now widely used in the bine polycarbonate resins with high-performance fibers. In categories: para-aramid fibers and meta-aramid fibers. both for automotive applications in Japan and also for markets of the electronics and automotive fields. high-performance resins, we are working to upgrade and Para-aramid fibers are particularly outstanding in terms of infrastructure-related applications overseas. The market is growing at an annual rate of about 3–4%. expand our lineup of specialty polycarbonate resins for strength and heat resistance. Accordingly, they are mainly In meta-aramid fibers, sales of Teijinconex were robust for Teijin has a strong presence in Asia, mainly in the OA equipcamera lenses in order to offer optimal products for smartused as reinforcement for tires and friction material for autouse in automotive applications, as well as protective clothing ment and electronic components fields. The reason is that we phones as well as for use in vehicle and surveillance cameras mobile brake pads, reinforcing optic fiber cables and for baland industrial applications. have materials technologies that comprise compounds with expected to see market expansion. listic protection and protective materials. Going forward, the other resins and are developing specialty polymers, and we market for para-aramid fibers is expected to grow at an ■■Production Sites ■■Production Sites also have large-scale molding and coating technologies. annual rate of 3%. Para-aramid fibers.......... The Netherlands, Japan Polycarbonate resins...... Japan, China Meta-aramid fibers have outstanding long-term heat resisMeta-aramid fibers......... Japan, Thailand tance and flame retardant properties, enabling them to be Carbon Fibers Films ■■Market Presence & Business Opportunities ■■Fiscal 2016 Performance ■■Market Presence & Business Opportunities ■■Fiscal 2016 Performance Global share Contributing to Sales for use in aircraft grew steadily Expanded Teijin’s proprietary Strengths in processing Integrated our domestic polyester film production Energy conservation and Sales of TENAX carbon fibers continued to grow steadily for technologies facilities and converted joint ventures in Japan of carbon fibers use in aircraft. In addition, sales for wind power generation in PEN film products and Indonesia into wholly owned subsidiaries 2 CO2 emissions cuts Multi-layer film formation the Americas and Europe were robust, but the supply-demand to automotive technologies, surface We posted relatively firm sales of Purex release films for use in nd through weight reduction processing and secondary balance softened for general industrial use, and for sports and applications manufacturing processes for parts used in smartphones, as processing technologies Carbon fiber is about ten times stronger and three-quarters leisure applications in Asia. well as special packaging application exports and lighter than steel. It is attracting interest as an environmentally Pyromex Oxidized PAN fiber has continued to post steady Polyester films feature balanced physical properties in terms polyethylene-naphthalate (PEN) film for use in magnetic matefriendly material that will contribute to energy conservation, sales mainly for use in aircraft brake pads. of such characteristics as strength, heat resistance, and optirials. In addition, PURE-ACE optical film using specialty polyCO2 emissions cuts and provide other benefits. This growing cal properties, together with outstanding cost performance. carbonate resin saw expanded sales for reverse-dispersion interest has driven rapid expansion in demand particularly for ■■Production Sites For these reasons, polyester films are used in a wide array of solvent-cast retardation film for use as an organic electrolumiaerospace applications and industrial applications. The Teijin Carbon fibers.................. Japan, Germany applications. Our proprietary development polyethylene naphnescent display (OLED) antireflective film. Group’s TENAX has a high global market share, mainly in thalate (PEN) is a highly functional film with outstanding propWe have been working to strengthen competitiveness by aircraft applications. For information on composites, please refer to “Feature: Establish erties. It is used in the automotive and environmental and advancing restructuring initiatives. Specifically, we halted Against a backdrop of tighter environmental regulations in New Businesses to Reshape the Future and the Supporting energy fields in addition to high-density data backup tapes production at the Gifu Factory at the end of September 2016, recent years, carbon fiber is expected to see rapid growth in Management Base” beginning on page 22 of this report. and electronic materials. and converted film joint ventures in Japan and Indonesia into applications as automotive components going forward. We Polycarbonate sheets and films are also used in products wholly owned subsidiaries. are working together with automakers on various technologithat leverage their outstanding functionality due to factors cal developments. including sophisticated optical control technologies. ■■Production Sites Polyester films................ Japan, Indonesia Polycarbonate films and sheets........ Japan 32 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 33 SECT ON : 2 BUS NESS REV EW MATER ALS Mediumand Long-Term Strategies “We will accelerate the expansion of Safety, Security and Disaster Mitigation Solutions solutions-oriented businesses using Address Growing Needs for Develop a Growth Platform our competitive, high-performance Toshiya Koyama Social Infrastructure In each business, we will also work to develop a growth materials.” General Manager, Material Business Group In Japan, following a succession of natural disasters, there platform to support steady execution of our strategies. are growing needs for measures to address aging social infrastructure and for further earthquake countermeasures. ▶▶Aramid fibers Environmental Value Solutions In addition, demand is expanding in Asia and emerging We will enhance our cost competitiveness by working to countries for high-performance fibers for use in the develincrease productivity and production capacity through the Focus on the Aircraft and Automotive Businesses opment of the infrastructure base and in protective clothing. Teijin will deliver optimal solutions by working to properly automation of production processes at existing plants. In the aircraft field, global demand for aircraft has been ▶▶Automotive field address this heightened disaster mitigation awareness and ▶▶Carbon fibers increasing, and the number of aircraft produced, centered In para-aramid fibers, particularly Twaron, we will focus on growing needs for refurbishing and expanding infrastructure. To address further growth in demand for carbon fiber prion smaller aircraft models, will continue to hold steady or expanding products to address demands for weight reducmarily in North America, we are studying investment in a increase. In the automotive field, the market environment tion and higher performance, including tire reinforcement new plant in the U.S., and have completed the acquisition has been changing. Specific developments have included materials and rubber materials. We will also use Technora ▶▶Infrastructure of land for the construction of the new U.S. plant. stricter environmental regulations, the adoption of electric to respond to the expansion of demand for the reinforceIn para-aramid fibers, we will expand sales of optical fiber vehicles, and a transformation in design philosophy driven cable in China and India. Technora has outstanding corro▶▶Resin and plastics processing ment of rubber materials. by technological innovation. sion, humidity and heat resistance properties in extreme We will specialize in fields with high profitability that are In resins, we will propose weight reduction and design In response to these conditions, Teijin will drive the environments. Demand for Technora is thus anticipated in difficult for competitors to enter, as we advance measures improvements using our high-performance compound expansion of the strong yet lightweight high-performance a wide range of applications, such as rope and deep sea to further improve the sales mix. products, along with the “super engineering plastic” polymaterials business in order to achieve higher fuel effiphenylene sulfide (PPS) resin, in addition to polycarbonoil drilling. In carbon fibers, we will address growing needs for use ▶▶Films ciency through weight reduction. Through these meaate resins. in the infrastructure and energy fields. Specifically, we will We will enhance cost competitiveness by steadily realizing sures, Teijin will strive to maintain and enhance profitability. work to expand sales of pressure vessels for the transporthe benefits of integrating domestic production sites. tation of shale gas, along with sales of products and mate▶▶Aircraft Field rials for wind turbine blades. In carbon fibers, we will intensively allocate resources to intermediate materials. We will build a competitive edge by accelerating the expansion of thermoplastic prepreg and ▶▶Protective clothing the textile materials business, thereby steadily expanding In fiscal 2015, we began production and sales of the sales. For Pyromex Oxidized PAN fiber, we are expanding meta-aramid fiber Teijinconex neo at our new factory in production capacity in response to favorable demand for Thailand. In addition to offering heat resistance, Teijinconex use in aircraft brake pads. neo achieves stable dyeability, enabling it to be used in In para-aramid fibers, we will work to develop air freight various textiles according to user needs. We will drive containers with high durability and fire resistance using growth in demand for protective clothing in Asia and Twaron, for the purpose of realizing safer and more efficient emerging countries, where high growth is expected against air freight transportation. the backdrop of increasingly stringent regulations pertaining to flame-retardant materials and environmental safety. ©AIRBUS 34 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 35 SECT ON : 2 BUS NESS REV EW MATER ALS HEALTHCARE Polyester Fibers & Trading and Retail Business Group Healthcare Business Group ■■Market Presence & Business Opportunities ■■Fiscal 2016 Performance Pharmaceuticals Specialized textiles Delivering innovative Steady growth in sales of materials for sports and trading company outdoor use and automotive materials ■■Market Presence & Business Opportunities ■■Fiscal 2016 Performance solutions Among the top class by integrating manufacturing In fiber materials and apparel, sales of high-performance materials for sports and outdoor use grew in the Americas Hyperuricemia and Countries or regions Sales of our novel treatment for hyperuricemia and gout expanded favorably in Japan and trading company functions where the Teijin Group has and Europe, and the Japanese market. In apparel, where the gout treatments business alliances The domestic pharmaceuticals market continues to face a Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. is among the top class of specialized textiles trading companies in Japan and develops a wide environment remained under pressure, we strengthened the operating structure through such means as promoting proTop share* in Japan 117 challenging business environment. In this climate, sales of hyperuricemia and gout treatment FEBURIC (febuxostat) and array of products. These products include fiber materials duction at optimal sites, and pushed ahead with differentiated Operating conditions remained harsh for the recently develSomatuline, a treatment for acromegaly, continued to expand and sewn products in the fashion and apparel field. In the businesses centered on our proprietary materials. oped drugs business owing to the downward revisions of steadily. We posted firm sales of new formulations of existing industrial textiles and materials field, products include autoIn industrial textiles and materials, sales of automotive Japan’s National Health Insurance drug reimbursement prices drugs. In addition, we are working to expand sales of the motive materials and components, materials for tents, and materials such as reinforcement materials for tires and civil for prescription pharmaceuticals and higher sales of generic transdermal anti-inflammatory analgesic patch formulation engineering materials were firm. Sales were also solid for living-related materials. drugs. However, the Teijin Group’s originally developed hyperLOQOA Tape. materials for agriculture, fisheries, and the environment, and One of our strengths in this business is our integrated uricemia and gout treatment febuxostat, its first novel global In August 2016, we signed an exclusive license and supply for water treatment membrane applications. global production and sales structure, from materials developtreatment in 40 years, has already secured the top share of the agreement with Versartis, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company ment to production and sales. In April 2017, we integrated ■■Production Sites domestic market. Sales are forecast to continue to the extent based in the U.S., for the development and marketing of polyester fiber production, sales and R&D functions into the Polyester fibers.....Japan, Thailand that they will be a driver of business growth. In addition, we Somavaratan (VRS-317), a novel, long-acting form of recomtrading and retail business. This will enable us to further Textiles.................Japan, China, Thailand have secured exclusive distributorship agreements for febuxbinant growth hormone (rhGH), in Japan. VRS-317 was develstrengthen our integrated production and sales structure. Sewn products.....Japan, Vietnam ostat covering 117 countries and regions overseas and sales oped by Versartis, Inc. Going forward, Teijin will work closely have already started in more than 70 of these places as of with Versartis, Inc. to advance the development of this drug. June 2017, with plans to expand the sales area going forward. ■■Business Sites Mediumand Long-Term Strategies * ‌Copyright 2017 Quintiles IMS. Source: IMS, Japan Pharmaceuticals Market Statistics, April 2016–March 2017 Unauthorized reproduction is strictly prohibited. 70 sales offices in Japan “With a constant pioneering spirit, we aim to Home Healthcare identify needs at the forefront of the markets and Shinji Nikko develop and supply materials and products that General Manager, ■■Market Presence & Business Opportunities ■■Fiscal 2016 Performance Fibers & Products fit those needs.” Converting Business Group Therapeutic oxygen concentrators Number of users Rental volumes either remained high or for HOT and CPAP ventilators for increased for all offerings the treatment of SAS Over In Japan, we firmly maintained a high level of rental volume for Further Strengthening Our Ability to Deliver Solutions Through Business Integration Top share* in Japan 300,000 therapeutic oxygen concentrators for HOT. Rental volume for CPAP ventilators for the treatment of SAS continued to To rigorously pursue a customer-focused approach, that is, optimized local production for local consumption. Notably, In Japan, Teijin was a pioneer in home oxygen therapy (HOT) increase favorably, due to increasing the appeal of NemLink, a to further advance its solutions-oriented business model, in automotive materials, we are working to strengthen services. Teijin’s strengths are its customer base, the largest monitoring system for CPAP ventilators that uses mobile Teijin has integrated the polyester fibers business and the supply chains in the four key regions of Japan, China, in the sector, and its extensive domestic structure, which can phone networks, and to the use of the SAS-2100 sleep disortrading and retail business. By strengthening collaboration ASEAN and North America, in conjunction with expanding support patients 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Teijin proder diagnostic system. Moreover, we have steadily expanded between manufacturing and sales even more than before, our production sites further. vides home healthcare services to over 300,000 patients sales of VitalLink, a multidisciplinary collaboration and inforwe will drive further evolution in our ability to deliver solutions. In the environmental field, we formulated THINK ECO as inside and outside of Japan. We have also secured the No.1 mation sharing system supporting comprehensive community Our strengths lie in our global supply chain spanning an activity guideline based on the six main themes of 1) share in Japan for the rapidly growing market for continuous healthcare, for which sales commenced in 2015. manufacturing to retail. We will create and supply products recycling; 2) derived from biomaterial; 3) energy conservapositive airway pressure (CPAP) ventilators for the treatment Meanwhile, in April 2017, we withdrew from the home that meet customer needs, as well as products that are not tion; 4) organic; 5) reduced use of hazardous chemicals; and of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), the same as with our HOT healthcare business in the U.S., where the business environcurrently available on the market, by developing even more 6) reduced emissions of environmental-burdening subservices. ment had come under severe pressure, by transferring this sophisticated differentiated products. stances. With this in mind, we are working to build and * Estimated from external reports and Teijin’s rental volume business to a peer company in this sector in the U.S. Teijin will continue to reinforce its production capabilities expand our environment-conscious business, in addition to through proactive M&A and alliances in pursuit of globally focusing on CSR procurement activities. ■■Business Sites 65 sales offices in Japan 36 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 37 SECT ON : 2 BUS NESS REV EW HEALTHCARE Mediumand Long-Term Strategies “We will strive to capture synergies between ▶▶Pharmaceuticals disorders. In addition, we entered into a worldwide license Sales of febuxostat, a treatment for hyperuricemia and agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. for the development, both the pharmaceuticals and home healthcare gout, have been increasing steadily worldwide. Aiming to manufacture and commercialization of an investigational businesses. Our goal is to provide peace of maximize earnings from febuxostat, we will work to raise preclinical antibody candidate targeting tau protein for a Akihisa Nabeshima mind for our patients and their families.” disease awareness based on clinical research and to boost possible treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. General Manager, Healthcare Business Group recognition of the importance of treatment. We will also strive to provide patients with a wider range of choices ▶▶Home Healthcare through new formulations. Examples include an oral jelly In CPAP ventilators for the treatment of SAS, we will Demographic change and increased health consciousness solutions and an intravenous drip of the osteoporosis treatment strengthen NemLink functions for monitoring treatment Bonalon, and Mucosolvan L Tablet 45 mg, a novel conditions, expand sales of SLEEPMATE10, a model feaStrengthen Growth Domains reduced-sized tablet-form version of the sustained-release turing a built-in heater-humidifier, and improve our ability to expectorant Mucosolvan. Efforts are also being made to respond to patient needs by capitalizing on our home Drug discovery has become increasingly important in expand sales of the transdermal anti-inflammatory analgehealthcare call centers. response to growing needs for advanced medical care in step with the progression of demographic change. sic patch formulation LOQOA Tape. In therapeutic oxygen concentrators for HOT, we will Moreover, with the number of patients for home healthcare In drug discovery research, we are working to expand develop relationships with general practitioners and continuing to increase, community healthcare based on drug discovery fields. Specifically, we are conducting R&D strengthen monitoring functions for signs of exacerbation collaboration between medical and nursing care, has activities focused on advanced medical materials based on and other parameters. We will also strive to further boost become more crucial than ever. the integration of materials and healthcare technologies, rental volume by enhancing and expanding the lineup of In this environment, the Teijin Group is working to maxiand also including areas such as nuclear receptor drug portable oxygen concentrators as well as achieving the mize earnings from existing growth drivers, while focusing discovery, and macrocyclic and constrained peptide drug same for non-portable oxygen concentrators. on drug discovery research and striving to strengthen VitalLink is a multidisciplinary collaboration and informadiscovery. Another priority is to pursue regenerative medihome healthcare using IoT. The Teijin Group will proactively tion sharing system used by medical professionals as a tool support comprehensive and efficient community healthcare, cine initiatives related to treatments for neurological diseases. We will also maximize value by promoting alliances to support comprehensive community healthcare. We have an approach that aids in preventing diseases and monitoring signs of exacerbation and other parameters. on a global scale. For example, in December 2016, we been steadily expanding sales of VitalLink by making progentered into a collaboration and license agreement with ress on signing agreements with general practitioners Amgen Inc. of the U.S. regarding research and developthrough medical associations, in addition to signing agree■ Pipeline ments directly with primary care physicians. ment of new therapeutic agents for kidney diseases and Area Code No. Target Disease Phase of Clinical Trials As of June 2017 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Filed Bone and joint ITM-058 Osteoporosis disease KTP-001 Lumbar disc herniation Respiratory disease PTR-36 Bronchial asthma TMX-67TLS Tumor lysis syndrome TMX-67 (PRC) Hyperuricemia and gout ITM-014N Gastro-entero-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors Cardiovascular and STM-279 ADA deficiency metabolic disease VRS-317 Pediatric growth hormone deficiency (GHD) TMG-123 Type 2 diabetes TMX-049 Hyperuricemia and gout TMX-049DN Diabetic nephropathy in Type 2 diabetes GGS-ON, -MPA, Optic neuritis, Microscopic polyangiitis, Chronic Others -CIDP inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy 38 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 39 SECT ON : 2 BUS NESS REV EW T R&D IT Business Group Technological innovation is vital to ensuring sustainable corporate growth. We intend to deliver new value grounded in innovative technology to customers and markets, and thereby enrich people’s daily lives and contribute to the advancement of society. Doing so is inseparable from enhancing the quality of life, as set forth in our Corporate Philosophy. With this in mind, we are working to ■■Market Presence & Business Opportunities ■■Fiscal 2016 Performance sharpen our ability to develop technologies and to deliver solutions that create new value. This is being done by formulating a Group-wide R&D strategy, including basic research, in tandem with strengthening coordination between Group companies. MECCHA COMICS e-comics Growth in sales of the MECCHA COMICS distribution service for smartCreating new services e-comics distribution service Research and Development Strategy phone and mobile phone users using IoT In Business Solutions, specifically in the healthcare business, Surpassed million1 in nursing care we bolstered sales of medical information systems including the iRad radiology imaging software. At the same time, we are The Teijin Group has embraced a long-term vision laid out as development to promote its transformation strategy for achieving subscribers taking steps to expand into the nursing care field. Notably, we follows: “Teijin aims to be an enterprise that is essential to tomorinnovation through the integration of technologies and organizaWith Infocom Corporation at the core, we are engaged in began providing monitoring services using IoT and a nursing row’s society by continuously creating new value.” To realize its tional functions, and its growth strategy for maximizing earnings in Business Solutions (B2B) and the Digital Entertainment (B2C). care recordkeeping system. aspirations for the Group ten years from now, Teijin is advancing existing businesses. With our Business Solutions (B2B), we provide corporate, In Digital Entertainment, we posted a steady performance, research and development from a global perspective. In regard to the organization, inter-business integration will be medical, and public institutions with high value-added sermainly due to steady growth in sales of To achieve its long-term vision, Teijin will strengthen and utilize promoted by integrating materials-related businesses, which had vices, leveraging our know-how and development technology MECCHA COMICS. its basic technologies. At the same time, Teijin has positioned previously been separated into several different parts, into one in the medical industry. With our Digital Entertainment (B2C), “Environmental Value,” “Safety, Security, and Disaster Mitigation,” organization as the materials business. At the same time, coordinawe provide consumers with such services as e-comics distriand “Demographic Change and Increased Health Consciousness” tion will be deepened by splitting up the New Business bution and e-commerce, leveraging our know-how and track as its core priority fields, and is steadily advancing research and Development Business Unit into materials and healthcare business. record built up from the early days of the mobile phone business. In the e-book market, MECCHA COMICS has grown to become one of Japan’s largest digital comic stores. Research and Development Sites The Netherlands Eight overseas sites United States United Kingdom Teijin Aramid B.V. Continental Structural Plastics DuPont Teijin Films UK Mediumand Long-Term Strategies Holdings Corporation Limited (Films) (Aramid fibers) China (Composites) Teijin Product Development China Co., Ltd. (Polyester NanoGram Corporation Fibers & Trading and Retail) “We will contribute to social innovation by (New materials) Teijin Chemicals Plastic Compounds Shanghai Ltd. harnessing advances in ICT, thereby raising Norihiro Takehara Germany (Plastics) Toho Tenax Europe our market presence.” General Manager, GmbH (Carbon fibers) IT Business Group France Accelerate Growth in the e-Comics Business and Healthcare-Related Business Continental Structural Eight sites in Japan Smartphones and tablets are now spreading rapidly among comprehensive community healthcare and nursing care. For Plastics Holdings Shizuoka Corporation Toho Tenax Co., Ltd. the public. Besides general consumers, corporations, healthexample, we are building networks that will support the (Carbon fibers) Tokyo (Composites) Tokyo Research Center care providers, and public institutions have also been making development of comprehensive community healthcare and (Healthcare and new healthcare) Okayama greater use of smartphones and tablets. In this environment, are creating new IoT-driven services that will realize higher Teijin Nakashima Medical Co., Ltd. we have positioned the e-comics business and the efficiency at medical and nursing care sites. (New healthcare) healthcare-related business as priority businesses, and In Digital Entertainment, we are working to further popularize Chiba Hiroshima Plastics Technical we are strengthening our competitiveness and expanding MECCHA COMICS by airing TV commercials in major urban Center Processing the content of our operations. areas across Japan. Concurrently, we aim to capture the top Development Section (Plastics) In Business Solutions, specifically the healthcare-related share of the market by enhancing user satisfaction. Measures The Teijin Group’s R&D sites are spread around the world. (Plastics) field, we are working to strengthen the functionality, improve include using AI technology to improve quality and strengthen Gifu At eight R&D sites in Japan and eight sites overseas, Teijin Film Solutions Limited the quality and bolster the competitiveness of existing sersecurity, supporting vertical scroll reading, and enhancing (Films) vices for hospitals and pharmaceutical companies. At the exclusive pre-release distribution and content. researchers are carrying out R&D activities based on the Yamaguchi Ehime Iwakuni R&D Center Technology Development Center same time, we are driving business expansion in the Group’s overall R&D strategies, including basic research. (Healthcare, new healthcare, (Aramid Fibers, Carbon Fibers, Plastics, Composites, new materials) Polyester Fibers & Trading and Retail) (As of March 31, 2017) 40 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 41 SECT ON : 2 BUS NESS REV EW Investment in Research and Development SECT ON Teijin’s policy is to continuously allocate approximately 5% of net Fiscal 2017 Allocation Plan sales to R&D. Under this policy, we intend to effectively allocate ‌Budget for growth strategies resources to R&D with an emphasis on core priority fields. Around 75% In fiscal 2016, ¥35.4 billion was spent on R&D, up ¥2.1 billion compared to the previous fiscal year. ‌Budget for transformation Teijin will allocate around 25% of R&D expenses to the strategies ESG budget for its transformation strategies, including composites, Around 25% LIB Separators, membranes and new healthcare, and around 75% to the budget for its growth strategies, including progress in the drug discovery and development phases and strengthening materials platform technologies. N ACT ON Fostering R&D Personnel Teijin is actively involved in holding forums gathering university leading research institutions both in Japan and overseas. professors and researchers primarily in the fields of composites Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi, awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in and healthcare, a technical advisory council comprised of influ2010, on staff as a Teijin Group Distinguished Fellow and presential members of academia, research institutes; and a disently a special professor at Purdue University in the US, conpatch program that sends young researchers on assignment to tinues to offer consultation services to researchers in Japan. Open Innovation Aiming For A Higher State of ESG Teijin has embraced an open innovation strategy to strengthen and exchanging information and personnel by forming networks The Teijin Group introduces the CSR issues that the Group considers important partnerships with researchers both within and outside the in an expansive range of fields spanning industry, government Company, in an effort to spur R&D activities aimed at creating and academia. By doing so, we aim to provide sophisticated (CSR Materiality) for the sustainable development of business and society, new businesses. This is not confined to being only within R&D conducted in the Teijin Group. We are undertaking joint research solutions required by customers in a timely manner. together with its associated initiatives. Intellectual Property Strategy Teijin is strengthening its execution of intellectual property to reshape our intellectual property portfolio in line with our activities from a strategic perspective, with a view to advance business portfolio transformation driven by the execution of integrated management of business, technology and intellecour growth and transformation strategies. Besides protecting tual property strategies. In addition, we will continue to push and utilizing patents, trademarks and other intellectual prop44 CSR Management ahead with initiatives to increase overseas patent applications erty, we are enhancing activities to protect knowledge and as a percentage of total applications, in response to further trade secrets throughout the company. 46 CSR Materiality globalization of our operations. At the same time, we will work 48 Environment Patent Applications in Japan in Fiscal 2016 Overseas Patent Applications as a Percentage of Total Applications (%) 50 Society Advanced Fibers and Composites 120 30 ‌Electronics Materials and 52 Non-Financial Data Sheet Performance Polymer Products 55 20 Healthcare 32 53 Governance 10 New Businesses and Others 91 58 Overview of Directors Total298 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) 42 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 43 SECT ON : 3 ESG N ACT ON CSR Management Message from the Chief Social Responsibility Officer CSR Management System (as of April 1, 2017) The Teijin Group considers CSR to be an important element of corporate management. To promote CSR as an integral part of management, we have designated a Chief Social Responsibility Officer to supervise CSR, and are promoting CSR activities under the officer’s strong leadership. The Teijin Group leverages its CSR The Group CSR Committee meets biannually to discuss and promote actions on key Group-wide CSR issues and initiatives. In fiscal 2016, it debated topics including additional CSR Materiality and newly identified CSR procurement as CSR Materiality. perspective to be “an enterprise that Subcommittees of the Group CSR Committee take the lead in advancing steps addressing each CSR Materiality issue identified. is essential to tomorrow’s society.” Just what is CSR? Teijin has clarified it simply as (1) having a keen understanding of Corporate Organization CSR Basic Policy establishment and promotion, CSR communication, society’s requirements and expectations, (2) objectively ascertaining our own capabilities Chief Social Responsibility Officer CSR Planning and environmental management, social contribution activities Promotion Department* and possibilities, (3) identifying opportunities and risks in light of both (1) and (2), and (4) *Newly established on April 1, 2017 taking opportunities to challenge and dealing with risks to realize sustainable business CSR and Compliance Department and social development. We are working to disseminate this awareness of CSR. We have been looking at social issues alongside the Teijin Group’s strengths to idenTRM Group Operational risk management, crisis management tify our very core priority fields in environmental, social, and governance areas that we Corporate Ethics and Corporate ethics and compliance activities, should focus on in our medium-term management plan for 2017–2019. While utilizing Compliance Group management of notifications and consultations a CSR perspective, holding numerous dialogues with various stakeholders, and approEnvironmental preservation, security and disaster priately responding to diverse risks, we contribute to society through our business. By ESH Group prevention, occupational safety and health practicing CSR in this way, we will earn society’s credence and approval. That, in turn, Quality Assurance and Product liability, quality assurance, will bring pride to us and motivate us for further initiatives. We aim to make this virtuous Export Security Group security export control circle a reality and become “an enterprise that is essential to tomorrow’s society.” Committee Chief Social Responsibility Officer Nobuyuki Takakura Group CSR Committee Compliance and Risk Management Subcommittee [Committee Chairperson] ESH* Subcommittee CSR Materiality and SDGs Chief Social Responsibility Officer [Committee Members] Functional Chief Officer, Product Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee business representatives As a member of global society, the Teijin Group is contributing to achievement of the sustainable development goals (SDGs), which CSR Promotion Subcommittee [Subcommittee Chairperson] are the goals in 17 fields that all members of the United Nations will tackle by 2030. We refer to the social issues shown by the General Manager of CSR SDGs in identifying CSR Materiality (key issues), and are working to advance CSR on a global level. and Compliance Department Information Security Subcommittee General Manager of CSR Planning and Promotion Department [Subcommittee Members] Security Export Control Conference *ESH: Environment, Safety and Health Related functional staff Related respondents in each business CSR communication Environmental value solutions Every February, the Chief Social Responsibility Officer reviews the CSR activities of business groups and Group companies. The Safety, security and disaster mitigation solutions review focuses on achievements of activities related to areas such as compliance and risk management, as well as verifying Increasing Corporate governance whether there were any material legal violations, incidents, or accidents. In fiscal 2016, none of the major incidents or accidents positive impact reported to the CEO and/or Chief Social Responsibility Officer were severe. Diversity Demographic change and increased health consciousness solutions PDCA Approach to CSR Activities Value chain ■ Long-term policies: ■ Teijin Group programs: Inbound Company Product Corporate Philosophy, Corporate Code of Each division executes short-term plans for Raw materials Suppliers Distribution Product use logistics operations end life Conduct, Corporate Standards of Conduct relevant key CSR issues Plan Do ■ Medium-term policies: ■ Business unit programs: CSR Basic Policy Implement plans specific to their business unit CSR procurement Corporate ethics and compliance ■ Action plans: Minimizing Medium-term and short-term CSR plans ■ Self-checks by the Teijin Group’s CSR-related Reduction of environmental impacts negative impact Conservation of biodiversity organizations Product liability/Quality assurance ■ Chief Social Responsibility Officer (CSRO) ■ Self-checks by business units Disaster prevention activities sets CSRO policy for the next fiscal year Action Check ■ Assurance by an external assurance provider Occupational safety and hygiene ■ Reports to the Group CSR Committee ■ Chief Social Responsibility Officer review Information security ■ External assessment Teijin Group’s CSR Materiality *Created by the Teijin Group based on the SDG Compass 44 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 45 SECT ON : 3 ESG N ACT ON CSR Materiality CSR Materiality of the Teijin Group STEP Analyze materiality High 2 Degree of impact on stakeholders Aiming for the sustainable development of our business and society, the Teijin Group identified the following CSR Materiality from (vertical axis) within a variety of issues related to corporate social responsibilities, and is advancing CSR management that is integrated with our Method for determining impact on stakeholders business strategies. In fiscal 2016, Teijin newly identified CSR procurement as CSR Materiality, as well as the following areas as Stakeholders are categorized into (1) shareholders and Material issues to the Teijin core priority fields for its new medium-term management plan: areas that can be captured as business opportunities by leveraging investors, (2) employees, (3) customers, (4) suppliers, Group are selected based on its strength, and areas that will strengthen its management base. and (5) local residents. The ascending order of degree the ascending order of of impact on stakeholders is determined by whether a importance to the Teijin Group CSR issue is of particular interest to each stakeholder and impact on stakeholders Environment Society Governance category and then tallying the score. ● Environmental value ● Safety, security and (horizontal axis) Low Importance to the Teijin Group High Capture solutions ( P22~, 34) disaster mitigation Method for determining degree of importance Positive impact on business development solutions ( P35) to the Teijin Group Core priority business Positive Strong ● Demographic change Importance to the Teijin Group is determined from both impact fields opportunities and increased health the degree of impact on business (taking into account (medium-term consciousness solutions ( P28~, 38 ∙ 39) Impact on both the positive and negative aspects), and also the Importance to the management Weak Low High businesses ● Reduction of environmen● Corporate prospect and likelihood of the issues occurring. Teijin Group High plan) Strengthen the ● Diversity ( P50 ∙ 51) Prospect and tal impacts ( P48 ∙ 49) governance likelihood of the issues occurring management ( P53~) Negative base impact Strong Negative impact on business continuity ● Conservation of ● Information security ● Corporate ethics STEP Dialogues with external experts Fields requiring continuing Enhance the management biodiversity ● Product liability/Quality assurance ● Disaster prevention activities and compliance ● CSR communication 4 We are proactively adopting viewpoints from outside the Company by having dialogues with external experts (March 2017). We have got valuable opinions from a wide range of perspectives, including expectations for the future, not efforts base ● Occupational safety and hygiene just about the establishment of materiality. ● CSR procurement Process of Identifying CSR Materiality As described below, the Teijin Group grasps and screens a wide range of CSR issues, analyzes those issues screened in terms of their degree of impact on stakeholders and importance to the Teijin Group, and selects material issues. The Chief Social Responsibility Officer then holds dialogues with external experts. For the final stage, the Group Management Committee identifies the CSR Materiality of the Teijin Group. Hidemi Tomita, Ken Shibusawa, Toshihiko Goto, The Teijin Group has positioned as fundamental the issues that the Teijin Group is already working on, and also Creating Shared Value (CSV) Director, Lloyd’s Register Japan K.K. Founding Partner & Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Sustainability Forum Japan, STEP Grasp and issues that were identified as business opportunities in line with management strategies. These issues are then cross-checked against social Commons Asset Management, Inc. and Board Member, Global Compact Network Japan 1 screen issues indicated in relevant international documents such as the ISO 26000 guidance on social responsibility, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines, the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, the UN’s sustainable development goals (SDGs), and the Paris Agreement on climate Clarifying how the material issues relate Next step is to diversify storytellers It is important that employees really feel change, and evaluation items of major socially responsible investment (SRI) indices, to grasp and screen CSR issues. to business raises awareness to resolve I learned from the latest round of their activities are contributing to sales. social issues. dialogue that Teijin’s initiatives are making Fostering consciousness about resolving STEP Analyze The screened CSR issues are analyzed and mapped two-dimensionally, with importance of the CSR Nowadays, determining how companies headway and becoming broader in social issues is not something that can be 2 materiality issues to the Teijin Group in ascending order along the horizontal axis, and impact on stakeholders in can contribute to social issues through scope. I think the next step is to diversify taught. For example, it is important that ascending order along the vertical axis. their technological capabilities, new our storytellers. Teijin’s board members front-line employees can really get a sense business, and so forth is a major priority. are clearly very conscious of CSR. for things like how to tie an eco-product Teijin’s new medium-term management However, I think it will be important going that they have developed to sales and Review STEP Select material From the issues analyzed in STEP 2, we select those issues which have a high importance to the forward to further visualize its dissemina3 CSR issues Teijin Group and a high degree of impact on stakeholders. plan sets out three types of solutions and a roadmap for that. In particular, I think it tion among employees and to aim to profits. Working environmental and social issues into the targets for product and is fantastic that Teijin has clarified its re-entrench CSR thinking. For example, I technology development also leads to approach to social issues. Furthermore, think traveling around within the comhigher motivation at worksites. When STEP Dialogues with where each business unit comes into pany to communicate directly with a people take the initiative to think about We conduct dialogues with external experts about the Teijin Group’s process of identifying CSR 4 external experts Materiality and the selected issues. play is also clear. For employees as well, I think that making the results of the group of mainly young employees to spread the word about CSR and incorwhat they can do themselves, an array of opportunities arise and business units initiatives visible both heightens sensitivporating fresh opinions would be effeccan get the message out about what ity to CSR thinking and can also be tied tive. This is because a decade or two kinds of developments and innovations STEP Identify CSR The Group Management Committee deliberates, confirms, and identifies the Teijin Group’s CSR to value creation. down the line, today’s younger generaare needed. I think making that happen is 5 Materiality Materiality. tion will be supporting Teijin. what fostering consciousness is all about. 46 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 47 SECT ON : 3 ESG N ACT ON Environment Reduction of CO2 Environmental Impact Climate Change Reducing Chemical Management and Initiatives Substance Emissions Reduction of Waste The Teijin Group places our highest priority on the ■ Environmental Impact Reduction Targets for FY2012–FY2020 environment, as described in our Corporate Philosophy, and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Emissions of Chemical Substances we will proactively advance environmental management that Waste with No Effective Use*3★ Manufacturing Operations*1★ into the Environment*2★ By fiscal 2020, is integrated into our business strategies. Achieve CO2 emissions reduction By fiscal 2020, reduce by 85% or more ratio of 1% or more per year reduce by 80% or more (compared to fiscal 1998 level) (compared to the level in the base year in fiscal 2011) (compared to fiscal 1998 level) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2016 1.52 million tons-CO 2 1,453 t 4,082 t Basic Stance Environmental Management and Reduction of Annual average Environmental Impact (million tons-CO2) 6.5% decrease (t) (t) The Teijin Group is globally expanding its wide range of 2.5 10,000 50,000 businesses, including materials, healthcare, and IT, to name The Teijin Group considers that environmental management refers compared to FY2011 just a few, and these business activities have an impact on to reducing environmental impact over the entire life cycle of prod2.0 8,000 40,000 84% decrease the earth’s environment. ucts, including all processes from material procurement to produccompared to FY1998 91% decrease 1.5 6,000 30,000 Consequently, the Teijin Group will recognize its environmention, use and disposal. We are working to integrate this with the 26% decrease compared to FY1998 tal impacts and work towards finding a variety of solutions. Teijin Group’s overall management strategy, provide environmental 1.0 4,000 compared to FY2015 20,000 37% increase compared to FY2015 While making the guarantee of safety a basic foundation, the value solutions, reduce environmental impacts, conserve biodiver0.5 2,000 10,000 Teijin Group will strive to achieve a society manifesting “low sity, and promote environmental education and communication. carbon,” “effective materials circulation,” and “existence in We are working to conserve energy, to use various resources 0 0 0 harmony with nature,” and work towards the sustainable effectively, to minimize emissions of chemical substances into the ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’98 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’98 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) development of both society and the Company. environment, to manage and reduce waste materials, to prevent (Base year) (Base year) (Base year) soil and underground water pollution, and to conserve biodiversity. The Teijin Group is working to reduce its We are actively committed to reducing emissions The Teijin Group is committed to reducing ■ Environmental Impact during Manufacturing in FY2016 by Input/Output ★ greenhouse gas emissions released during into the environment, covering 575 chemical the amount of waste it generates, as well ★…Items for independent assurance manufacturing, both in Japan and oversubstances. These 575 chemical substances as to reducing “waste with no effective seas. In fiscal 2016, we decreased CO2 include the Class 1 designated chemical subuse” through promoting a shift to reuse emissions by a fuel conversion of in-house stances pursuant to the Law Concerning Reporting, and recycling. In fiscal 2016, the amount power generation equipment at the etc., of Release to the Environment of Specific of “waste with no effective use” was INPUT OUTPUT Mishima Factory of Toho Tenax Co., Ltd. Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements increasing due to temporary factors such Intermediate In addition the impact of the shutdown of in their Management (462 substances: revised in as the launching of new production lines. products Energy*1 CO2 the Singapore plant has been a reduction April 2010) and the chemical substances desig23.9×10 1.52 Manufacturing 6 and of CO2 emissions. nated by the Japan Chemical Industry Association processing Products million tons (433 substances). (Some substances are desigGJ nated in both, hence the numerical discrepancy.) Chemical substances 1,453 Chemical substances *1 Includes CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. CO2 emissions are calculated according to the coefficients specified in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming. (Up to fiscal 2014, an emissions coefficient for electricity of 0.555 kg CO2/kWh was used; in fiscal 2015, 0.579 kg CO2/kWh was used. In fiscal 2016, in Japan the post-adjustment emissions handled tons coefficient by an electric power supply company was used; overseas an IEA-announced country-specific emissions coefficient was used (2014 values).) However, for power purchased overseas, 0.435 million tons Raw materials Use Waste with no effective use where known, the relevant emissions coefficient is used for the calculations. We deduct an amount of CO2 emissions equivalent to the amount of energy sold to other companies. *2 The total amount of chemical substances released into the atmosphere, water and soil, and forming landfill inside business sites. *3 “Waste with no effective use” refers to waste incinerated without heat recovery and waste for landfill. 4,082 Freshwater consumption 77 million tons tons CLOSE UP We earned the EcoBalance Award for Best Business Practices at the EcoBalance conference in Kyoto in October 2016. We received it for our Customer Benefit Seawater consumption Recycling Water discharged Model, a method for increasing benefits for customers including economic value and 20 million tons Recovery Disposal 90 million tons Won EcoBalance environment-friendliness, as well as for being an evaluation example of the environmental impact reduction of tire cords by using the model. We were highly comAward mended for comparing with conventional products the two aspects of the effect of *1 Energy is calculated according to the coefficients specified in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. We deduct the amount of energy sold to other companies. the CO2 emissions reductions and the economic value over the entire life cycle from both the perspective of producers and users. 48 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 49 SECT ON : 3 ESG N ACT ON Society ■ Fiscal 2016 Results Average overtime hours*1 Ratio of annual taken Number of employees taking Average years at company*2 Diversity (hours/month) 15 paid holidays*1 (%) 80 childcare leave*1 250 (years) 20 12 200 60 15 9 150 40 10 By encouraging personnel from extensive backgrounds 6 100 20 5 3 50 to thrive irrespective of nationality, gender or age, the 0 0 0 0 Teijin Group aims to become a prominent and globally ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) Female Male Female Male admired corporate group, bringing together the The number and ratio of newly Ratio of female employees in recruited career-oriented female managerial positions*1 (%) CLOSE UP Group’s overall collective strength. university graduates*1 (people/%) 150 40 5 SCEJ Award for Outstanding Women’s Activity Won 120 30 At the 2016 awards sponsored by the 4 90 Society of Chemical Engineers, Japan 20 (SCEJ), the Teijin Group’s Mie Kamiyama 60 3 won the SCEJ Award for Outstanding 10 30 Women’s Activity. She received the award in recognition of her contribution to the devel0 0 0 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) opment of melt spinning technology, made Basic Stance Promotion of Diversity (Left scale) (Right scale) by exercising her talent as a female Female Male Percentage of female researcher and as a manager. To promote our business activities globally, it is essential to To utilize diversity of human resources as a driving force for employees make full use of the abilities of diverse human resources who enhancing competitiveness, the Teijin Group promotes diver*1 The five core Group companies in Japan: Teijin Limited, Toho Tenax Co., Ltd., Teijin Pharma Limited, Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd., Infocom Corporation *2 Group companies in Japan differ in nationality, gender, age, race, sexual identity and sity and inclusion as part of its management strategy. In particsexual orientation, sense of values, ideas and experience. The ular, we focus on important issues, including the dissemination We will step up the promotion of workstyle diversity, women’s advancement, and personnel diversity Teijin Group upholds parts of its corporate philosophy, of a basic stance, the promotion of a variety of ways of workmore than ever, aiming to realize an organization that fully demonstrates the abilities of diverse human “Empowering Our People,” and accordingly put in place a ing, the advancement of female employees in the workplace, resources with different values and experiences, in order to revitalize the organization and stimulate work environment in which every Group member can fully and the promotion of the diversification of human resources. innovation. In addition to the above, we will newly set KPI from many different perspectives, and we will harness their individuality and attractiveness to make the also promote and follow-up on the utilization of human resources directed at achieving these targets. most of their abilities. ■ Progress Promoting Diversity ◾ Held training on intercultural communication ◾ Workshop on LGBT Diverse workstyles Women’s advancement Personnel diversity Renamed Female Employee Advancement Section Set up Female Employment Diversity Development Section Advancement Committee ■ Degree of Diversity Promotion, Examples of Indicators (Goals to be Achieved in 10 Years) Established Female Employee ◾ Advancement Section Started the Empower Women Advancement program Work-at-home system Number of Managerial positions Number of ◾ Set a target of 10% or higher ratio of newly recruited utilization rate female (Japan) 3 times more female foreign-national executives career-oriented university graduates who are foreign nationals managers than now executives 50% (Overseas) Ratio of female 12+ ◾ Set a target of 30% or higher ratio of newly recruited career-oriented female university graduates 10+ managers 33% ◾ Introduced a re-employment system Started the leadership training program in five regions worldwide Held seminars and conducted a Diversity recognition rate 100% Started publishing the diversity handbook survey on balancing work and Extended the nursing care leave nursing care period to two years (730 days) Started Women’s Intensive CLOSE UP To enliven the organization, encourage innovation, and raise competitiveness, the Teijin Group is Development program taking its diversity promotion initiatives a step further. On the LGBT front, we are working toward Introduced a work-at-home system proper understanding as well as recognition of the existence of LGBT people and acceptance of The Teijin Group’s such individuals. We aim to be an enterprise where LGBT people feel free to come out but do not even need to as they are naturally recognized and accepted by others. LGBT* initiatives *An inclusive term for sexual minorities where L stands for lesbian, G for gay, B for bisexual, and T for transgender. [Key initiatives] ○Revisions to Corporate Code of Conduct and Standards of Conduct ○Establishment of LGBT consultation services ○Start of ally (supporter) activities 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2007 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2016 ○Training on LGBT issues ○System revisions, etc. 50 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 51 SECT ON : 3 SECT ON : 3 ESG N ACT ON ESG SG N ACT O ON Non-Financial Data Sheet Governance We show key indicator data for a variety of CSR issues, including the reduction of environmental impact and diversity. Please refer to the following site for detailed information such as other indicators and descriptions of the initiatives for each issue. https://www.teijin.com/csr/ ★…Indicators for independent assurance Type of Issue Governance Issues Corporate Ethics and Compliance Indicator Usage of the Consultation & Reporting System★ Scope Japan Unit Number of cases FY2014 62 FY2015 59 FY2016 95 Corporate Governance Response rate of “Check Sheets to Survey All Employees at the Japan % 96 98 98 Corporate Ethics Workshop”★ Participation rate in Corporate Ethics Workshop for all employees★ Overseas % 60 54 50 The Teijin Group seeks to strengthen its corporate Risk Number of participants trained to use the emergency safety Japan People 13,842 11,993 11,803 Management confirmation system★ governance system to ensure high transparency and Environmental Reduction of (Environmental input) Energy★ Worldwide GJ 26.9×106 28.3×106 23.9×106 Issues Environmental prompt decision-making, and to establish relationships of (Environmental input) Chemical substances handled★ Worldwide (Million tons) 0.787 0.654 0.435 Impact (Environmental input) Freshwater consumption★ Worldwide (Million tons) 81 83 77 trust through dialogue with shareholders and investors, (Environmental input) Seawater consumption★ Worldwide (Million tons) 46 39 20 for further growth. (Environmental output) CO2★ Worldwide (Million tons) 1.79 1.80 1.52 (Environmental output) Chemical substances★ Worldwide Tons 2,029 1,956 1,453 (Environmental output) Waste with no effective use★ Worldwide Tons 3,086 2,978 4,082 (Environmental output) Water discharged★ Worldwide (Million tons) 116 111 90 COD/BOD load*1★ Worldwide Tons 538 595 421 SOx emissions★ Worldwide Tons 3,100 3,000 2,600 Social Issues Human 5 Group companies Hours per Average overtime per month for employees★ 13.1 13.2 12.5 Resources in Japan month Management 5 Group companies Ratio of annual taken paid holidays★ % 72 77 76 and Labor CSR in Japan Basic Philosophy 5 Group companies Number of employees taking childcare leave★ People 193 248 201 in Japan The Teijin Group recognizes that its basic mission as a transparency, ensuring fairness and objectivity, accelerating 5 Group companies Number of employees taking childcare leave (male)★ in Japan People 29 80 56 company is to ensure sustainable growth in shareholder valdecision-making, and ensuring independence. These reforms 2 Group companies ue. On this basis, to fulfill our responsibilities to various stakeinclude establishing the Advisory Board, appointing indepenNumber of employees taking nursing care leave★ People 4 3 2 in Japan holders, we have striven to strengthen corporate governance. dent outside directors, and separating business execution 2 Group companies Number of employees taking volunteer leave★ People 8 8 8 Since the late 1990s, we have implemented a series of and monitoring/auditing functions. The Teijin Group Corporate in Japan Average years at company (male)★ Japan Year 16.1 16.4 16.5 groundbreaking management reforms relating to basic eleGovernance Guide was published to specify guidelines reAverage years at company (female)★ Japan Year 12.9 13.4 13.7 ments of corporate governance with the aim of enhancing garding corporate governance. Ratio of newly recruited career-oriented female university 5 Group companies % 30 32 31 graduates*2★ in Japan Ratio of female employees in managerial positions (equivalent of 5 Group companies % 3.84 3.70 3.91 section manager or above)★ in Japan Number of employees rehired through re-employment systems Japan People 90 182 108 (systems enabling employees to continue work after retirement)*3★ ■ Initiatives for Strengthening Governance Number of employees with disabilities*4★ Japan People 242 246 225 1999 2003 2012 Disaster Number of Number of serious accidents and disasters (Explosions/fires)★ Worldwide 0 0 0 Separation of management 2009: 10 directors Prevention cases 24 directors From 1999: Reduced to 9 directors Activities and execution Number of Number of serious accidents and disasters (Leaks/spills/other)★ Worldwide 0 0 0 cases From 1999: Introduced the corporate officer system (to accelerate decision-making for Occupational Lost time injury frequency rates*5★ Worldwide 0.18 0.28 0.27 execution of business and clarify the system of responsibility) Safety and Environmental preservation investments★ Worldwide (Billions of yen) 0.7 5.9 1.6 Health Safety and disaster prevention, and health investments★ Worldwide (Billions of yen) 1.2 1.4 1.4 Advisory Board 1999 Advisory Board established (to enhance management transparency) Environmental preservation expenses★ Worldwide (Billions of yen) 8.5 6.2 5.2 Safety and disaster prevention, and health expenses★ Worldwide (Billions of yen) 2.2 2.1 2.1 CSR Breakdown of suppliers by rating (for Groups I-III*, designated Outside directors 2003 Introduced 3 outside directors 2012: 4 members Japan % 98 99 87 Procurement as “Okay to continue business”)★ Breakdown of purchase value by rating (for Groups I-III*, Japan % 96 96 99 1999 3 outside statutory auditors (a majority of the Board of Statutory Auditors) designated as “Okay to continue business”)★ Social Expenses of social contribution activities★ Worldwide (Billions of yen) 1.04 0.94 0.89 Contributions Corporate philosophy Formulated in 1993 Number of employees Worldwide People 15,780 15,756 19,292 *1 Calculated based on wastewater discharged into rivers, oceans and lakes. COD data is used in cases where both COD and BOD data are available. *2 The number of newly recruited career-oriented university graduates is calculated based on the number of newly recruited career-oriented university graduates scheduled to join the Company in Standards of Conduct and Corporate Corporate Ethics Committee established and Compliance Code of Conduct formulated in 1993 Corporate Standards of Conduct formulated in 1998 the next fiscal year. *3 Figures refer to the number of employees newly rehired through re-employment systems in each fiscal year. *4 Figures as of April 1, 2015, 2016 and 2017. Calculated for companies that are required to hire employees with disabilities. Teijin Group Corporate Revised Revised in *5 The lost time injury frequency rate is the number of lost time injuries per one million work hours (calculated based on calendar years). Formulated in 2003 Governance Guide in 2007 2009 *6 The 2 Group companies in Japan in the table are Teijin Limited and Teijin Pharma Limited. The 5 Group companies in Japan that are targeted are Teijin Limited, Toho Tenax Co., Ltd., Teijin Pharma Limited, Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd., and Infocom Corporation. 52 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 53 SECT ON : 3 ESG N ACT ON Governance ■ Overview of the Corporate Governance System ■ Board of Directors ■ Board of Statutory Auditors Nomination Consultation Committee/Remuneration Teijin Group, supporting business continuity. Consultation Committee In addition to the Advisory Board, in order to further improve Statutory Auditors and the Statutory Auditors Organization form Advisory body to the Board of Directors with nomination and Outside Internal Outside Internal transparency with respect to executive personnel, we operate Committee Company that remuneration committee functions 4 10 6 3 5 2 a Nomination Consultation Committee and a Compensation The Board of Statutory Auditors comprises five statutory employs Board of Established (independent) directors (independent) Statutory Consultation Committee. auditors, and a majority of three are outside statutory auditors Auditors Auditors system Advisory Board Two outside directors, the Chairman of the Board, and the who maintain independence to enhance the efficacy of moniCEO participate as members, and outside directors chair the toring and auditing, and secure transparency of the Board. All committees. Both committees play a consultative role for the of the statutory auditors attend the Board of Directors meetNo. stipulated in Articles of Incorporation .. Up to 10 No. stipulated in the Articles of Incorporation.. Term ...................................................... 1 Year Upper limit on the number of members is Board of Directors, and have the function of making proposings and any other important internal meetings, where they Chairman of the Board of Directors .......... Chairman not stipulated als and recommendations to the Board of Directors as express their opinions and make recommendations. The (or, in the absence of a chairman, the senior advisor or regards the nomination, evaluation and remuneration of direcCommittee of Teijin Group Statutory Auditors is responsible an outside director) tors and senior management other than the Chairman of the for surveying and auditing the entire Teijin Group, a role that Board and the CEO, and the nomination of statutory auditors. corresponds to Group management and financial consolidation management. The Committee of Teijin Group Statutory The Teijin Group’s Corporate Governance System (As of April, 2017) TRM Committee Auditors’ activities include deliberating and ensuring the incluCorporate Governance System The Teijin Group has established the Total Risk Management sion of the basic policy and plan for auditing and the selection (TRM) Committee beneath the Board of Directors, as a preof key auditing items of each business. These deliberations ventive measure to handle any risks we may face. The TRM are based on the Teijin Group’s basic auditing policy and Advisory Board Committee categorizes the risks into management strategy or plans decided by our Board of Statutory Auditors. Majority of members are external Function of Nomination and business operating risks. The Chief Social Responsibility Compensation Committee Officer (CSRO) is assigned in charge of business operating Group Strategy Committee and Group Management (CEO and the Chairman) risks, while the CEO is directly in charge of management Committee strategy risks. The CEO chairs the TRM Committee, whose The Group Strategy Committee and Group Management members are the CSRO and other chief officers assigned by Committee are bodies for deliberating on the decision-making the CEO. The Board of Directors deliberates and determines of the CEO, who is responsible for execution of duties. TRM basic policies and annual plans that are proposed by the Attended by full-time statutory auditors, the committees ensure Function of Nomination and Compensation Committee (Directors TRM Committee, as well as managing significant risks for the a rapid and highly transparent decision-making process. other than CEO and the Chairman) Shareholders’ Board of Directors CEO Advisory Board (As of July 2017) Meeting Ten members (of whom four are outside) Group Strategy Materials Business Teijin established the Advisory Board, which is comprised mainly of outside TRM Committee Committee experts, in 1999 with the objective of raising the degree of management transparHealthcare Business ency. In addition to leading experts in Japan, the Advisory Board’s original members Board of Statutory Auditors included leading global authorities on governance John A. Krol, former chairman of Five members (of whom three are outside) IT Business E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (“DuPont”), and Ronald Hampel, former Group Management Committee chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC. Since its establishment, the board The Committee of Teijin has held two ordinary meetings each year, in the spring and autumn, and has played Group Statutory Auditors a substantial role in such ways as making proposals to management, assessing directors, and deliberating presidential succession plans. The Board of Directors implements decision-making based on consideration of Board of Directors policies on compliance and how to manage risks surrounding the advice and recommendations of the Advisory Board. The Board of Directors is comprised of 10 directors of whom the Teijin Group, and supervise those implementations. 4 are outside directors that maintain independence. The Board ■ Advisory Board Members ■ Primary Agenda Items of Directors is chaired by the chairman, to ensure the appropriAdvisory Board Chairman, Member of the Board, Teijin Limited Shigeo Ohyagi (Board chairman) May 2017 ate separation of responsibility for front-line management and The Advisory Board is a consultative body to the Board of Special Assistant to the Minister for Foreign Affairs Yutaka Iimura • Report on the Medium-Term Management Plan monitoring/supervising. The main goal of the Board of Directors Directors. It is comprised of five to seven outside experts, the (Fiscal 2017–2019) and the Fiscal 2017 ShortFormer President/Chairman, Chiyoda Corporation Nobuo Seki is to maximize shareholder value each fiscal year and over the chairman or a senior advisor, and the CEO of the Teijin Group. Term Management Plan President & Chairperson, medium and long-term. At the same time, it must pay close Its role is to give advice and make proposals regarding corpoKenichiro Senoh The Industry-Academic Collaboration Initiative (NPO) • CEO succession plan attention to the position of stakeholders other than the sharerate strategy and results, and function as the Nomination and Special advisor to Panasonic Corporation Fumio Ohtsubo • Deliberations on the performance review and holders. The Board of Directors must also deliberate, deterCompensation Committee in deliberating on matters such as Professor, University of Amsterdam, Netherlands Alexander H.G. Rinnooy Kan remuneration of the CEO in the previous fiscal year mine, and approve any management policies, and the overall a change of CEO and the successor as well as systems and Executive Director and CEO, American Chemical Society Thomas Connelly • Deliberations concerning the CEO’s targets for the plans of the entire Teijin Group, and any other items required by standards governing remuneration for Teijin Group directors, President and CEO, Jun Suzuki new fiscal year law or other regulations. Furthermore, the Board of Directors is statutory auditors and corporate officers, and it evaluates the Representative Director of the Board, Teijin Limited responsible for ensuring accountability. It must also clarify its performance of the CEO. 54 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 55 SECT ON : 3 ESG N ACT ON Governance Outside Directors and Outside Statutory Auditors Reason for Selection and Status of Activities of Directors and Statutory Auditors The Teijin Group has prescribed “Requirements for Independent Director and Independent Statutory Auditor Independent Attendance at meetings of director / the Board of Directors and Independent Directors” for outside directors, including candiRequirements (Overview) Name Reason for selection Advisory Board statutory Board of Statutory Auditors dates. These conditions for appointment are designed to (1) Persons having no significant special interests in the Teijin Group. auditors in Fiscal 2016 increase the level of precision and ensure the transparency of (2) Persons to whom items (a) through (e) below do not apply are deemed Appointed for his experience as our President and Chairman and for working on our restructuring initiatives. We expect him to apply his management capabilities Attended 12 of 12 Board of the management supervisory function of the Board of to be Independent Directors or Independent Statutory Auditors having Shigeo Ohyagi as Chairman of the Board of Directors to conduct appropriate supervision of Directors meetings Executive Directors, etc. Directors. In the same way, we have also prescribed no significant special interest in the Teijin Group. “Requirements for Independent Statutory Auditors,” which (a) Internal officers or employees and former internal officers or employAppointed for his experience as President and then formulating the revised medium-term plan. On this basis, we expect him to complete the restructuring Attended 12 of 12 Board of cover outside statutory auditors, including candidates. These ees of the Teijin Group Jun Suzuki initiatives which he inherited from his predecessor, and promote the Directors meetings transformation and growth strategy for the future based on the new mediumare designed to increase the level of precision and ensure the (b) Providers of specialized services to the Teijin Group term management plan formulated in February 2017. transparency of the auditing function of the execution of (c) Persons having customer or business partner relations with the Teijin Appointed for his knowledge and insight accumulated in the finance and duties of the internal directors and the management. Group accounting field and management strategies field, together with his business experience in the IT business field, of which we expect him to take full Attended 12 of 12 Board of With regard to independent director and independent stat(d) Persons having “inter-directorship” relations with the Teijin Group Kazuhiro Yamamoto advantage. As CFO, head of the accounting administration field, and CIO, we Directors meetings expect him to put efforts into cost management, IR activities and the promotion utory auditor requirements, we have formulated and operate (e) Persons having other special interests in the Teijin Group of information strategies. our own regulations. Appointed for his business experience and insight accumulated in the healthcare Directors business field, of which we expect him to take full advantage. As the Director Attended 12 of 12 Board of Hiroshi Uno Responsible for the Healthcare Business of the Teijin Group, we expect him to Director Compensation make efforts to expand the profits of the Healthcare Business, promote the Directors meetings transformation and growth strategy and work on inter-business integration. Compensation for directors is based on consolidated ROA, ■ Compensation for Directors in Fiscal 2016 Appointed for his knowledge and insight accumulated in the human resources (Millions of yen) and general affairs fields and the electric materials and performance polymer with consideration also given to consolidated ROE and operproducts fields, of which we expect him to take full advantage. As the Director Assumed the post in June Yasumichi Takesue Responsible for the Materials Business of the Teijin Group, we expect him to 2017 ating income—specifically to whether targets have been met Position No. of people Compensation amount expand the profits of the Materials Business and put efforts into promoting the and improvements seen from the previous year—as well as to Director 11*1 475 transformation and growth strategy. a qualitative assessment of each individual director’s execuOf which, outside directors 5 57 Appointed for his knowledge and insight accumulated in the finance and accounting field and management strategies field, of which we expect him to tion of duties. The Advisory Board deliberates systems and 2 take full advantage. As the Director Responsible for Corporate Strategy, Legal Statutory auditor 6* 89 Attended 12 of 12 Board of standards governing remuneration for Teijin Group directors, Yoshihisa Sonobe and Intellectual Property, and Global Strategy, we expect him to make efforts to Directors meetings Of which, outside statutory auditors 3 32 plan strategies toward the achievement of the execution of restructuring statutory auditors and corporate officers and evaluates the initiatives and the promotion of transformation and growth strategies, which are our most important issues. performance of the CEO and representative directors. *1 The number of salaried directors includes one director who retired in fiscal 2016. *2 The number of salaried statutory auditors includes one statutory auditor who retired in * Began implementation under a new system governing remuneration for Teijin Group Appointed for his considerable knowledge and experience as a diplomat and his fiscal 2016. Attended 11 of 12 Board of directors, statutory auditors and corporate officers from fiscal 2017. Yutaka Iimura global perspective on business management, based on which we expect him to Directors meetings provide us with advice and recommendations on our business operations. Appointed for his considerable business experience and deep insight developed Investor Relations Activities Nobuo Seki as the president and chairman of a listed company, based on which we expect Attended 12 of 12 Board of Directors meetings him to provide us with advice and recommendations on our business operations. The Teijin Group behaves as a company that takes requests basic policy is to disclose the same content both in and out(Outside) Appointed for his deep insight developed by serving as a director and committee member for many organizations, mainly in the industry and business fields, Attended 12 of 12 Board of from shareholders and society into consideration to achieve a side Japan simultaneously. In addition to disclosing legally Kenichiro Senoh based on which we expect him to provide us with advice and recommendations Directors meetings higher degree of accountability. Under the charge of the Chief stipulated financial information, we proactively disclose corpoon business operations. Financial Officer, we conduct investor relations activities rate information from the perspective of good CSR. General Appointed for his considerable business experience and deep insight developed Attended 8 of 9 Board of Fumio Ohtsubo as the president and chairman of a listed company, based on which we expect including information disclosure and communication with meetings of shareholders are “open meetings,” wherein comhim to provide us with advice and recommendations on our business operations. Directors meetings shareholders and investors. In disclosing information, our municating with shareholders is our first priority. Attended 12 of 12 Board of Appointed for his knowledge and insight accumulated in the finance and Directors meetings ■ Main Investor Relations (IR) Activities in Fiscal 2016 Atsushi Mugitani accounting field, together with his experience as general manager of the Internal Attended 12 of 12 Board of Audit Department. Accordingly, we expect him to contribute to internal control. Statutory Auditors meetings Activity Details Statutory Auditors Attended 9 of 9 Board of Appointed for his business experience accumulated in the healthcare business Presentations for analysts and Presentations were held every quarter. A presentation on our mediumto long-term strategy was also held. (Fiscal Directors meetings Noriaki Endo field, together with his experience as CSRO and Supervisor of the Internal Audit Attended 9 of 9 Board of institutional investors 2016 result: Held 5 presentations in total) Department. Accordingly, we expect him to contribute to internal control. Statutory Auditors meetings Presentations for overseas institutional The CEO or CFO visited overseas investors and held individual meetings (three times). Apart from this, the CEO or Appointed for his deep insight and abundant experience developed in national investors CFO actively participated in conferences held by securities firms (three times). government positions including within the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Attended 12 of 12 Board of Directors meetings Nobuo Tanaka Industry, as well as international institutions such as the Organization for Attended 12 of 12 Board of Presentations for individual investors Teijin proactively participated in presentations for individual investors organized by securities firms and other parties Economic Co-operation and Development, based on which we expect him to Statutory Auditors meetings (ten times). Moreover, at management presentations held every year for individual shareholders, the CEO explains contribute to maintaining and enhancing corporate governance. management policies and provides an overview of business operations. Attended 12 of 12 Board of (Outside) Appointed for his deep insight and abundant experience developed as a certified Directors meetings Disclosure of IR materials on website When quarterly earnings and medium-term management plans are announced, Teijin simultaneously publishes Gen Ikegami public accountant, based on which we expect him to contribute to maintaining Attended 12 of 12 Board of related materials on its website in both Japanese and English. Materials for individual investor presentations and and enhancing our corporate governance. Statutory Auditors meetings other events are also published on the website. Appointed for her deep insight and abundant experience developed as a lawyer, (Japanese: https://www.teijin.co.jp/ir/library/) Assumed the post in June Hitomi Nakayama based on which we expect her to contribute to maintaining and enhancing our 2017 (English: https://www.teijin.com/ir/library/) corporate governance. 56 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 57 SECT ON : 3 ESG N ACT ON Overview of Directors (As of July 2017) Board of Directors Statutory Auditors Chairman, Member of the Board President and CEO, Representative Director of the Board Full-Time Statutory Auditor Full-Time Statutory Auditor Shigeo Ohyagi Jun Suzuki Atsushi Mugitani Noriaki Endo 1971 Joined Teijin Limited 1983 Joined Teijin Limited 1980 Joined Teijin Limited 1983 Joined Teijin Limited 2003 General manager of Medical and Pharmaceutical Business Group 2011 President of Teijin Holdings Netherlands B.V. 2007 General manager of New Business Development 2009 General manager of Global Pharmaceutical Business 2005 Chief Information Officer (CIO) 2012 Chief Marketing Officer, Director of BRICs Business Department Department, Teijin Pharma Limited 2007 Chief Strategy Officer (CSO) 2013 Director of Teijin Limited, and general manager of Advanced 2013 General manager of Corporate Audit Department 2012 General manager of Compliance Division of Teijin Pharma Fibers and Composites Business Group 2015 Statutory auditor (incumbent) Limited 2008 President and CEO, representative director of the board of Teijin Limited 2014 President and CEO, representative director of the board of Teijin 2015 Chief Social Responsibility Officer (CSRO) 2014 Chairman, member of the board of Teijin Limited (incumbent) Limited (incumbent) 2016 Statutory auditor (incumbent) Independent Outside Statutory Auditor Independent Outside Statutory Auditor Independent Outside Statutory Auditor Executive Vice President, Senior Executive Officer, Senior Executive Officer, Executive Officer, Nobuo Tanaka Gen Ikegami Hitomi Nakayama Representative Director of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board 1973 Joined Ministry of International Trade and Industry 1980 Joined Showa Accounting (now Ernst & Young 1991 Admitted to the Bar (Daini Tokyo Bar Association) Kazuhiro Yamamoto Hiroshi Uno Yasumichi Takesue Yoshihisa Sonobe (now Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) ShinNihon LLC) 2011 Vice President of Daini Tokyo Bar Association 1975 Joined Teijin Limited 1981 Joined Teijin Limited 1980 Joined Teijin Limited 1980 Joined Teijin Limited 2002 General manager of International Trade Policy Bureau, 1983 Registered as a Certified Public Accountant 2013 Executive Governor of Japan Federation of Bar Trade and Industry Organization Division, METI 1992 Registered as CPA the state of California, USA Associations 2011 General manager of IT Business Group 2011 General manager of Pharmaceutical 2010 Corporate Officer, Chief Human 2010 Deputy Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Business Unit, Teijin Pharma Limited Resources Officer (CHO) general manager of Accounting and 2007 Director-General of International Energy Agency 2000 Representative partner of Audit Corporation Ota 2017 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2012 General manager of Corporate Strategy Office 2013 General manager of Healthcare 2015 General manager of Electric Materials & Finance Office 2012 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) Showa Century (now Senior Partner, Ernst & Young Business Group Performance Polymer Products 2011 Chief Financial Officer (CFO), general 2015 President of the Sasakawa Peace Foundation ShinNihon LLC) 2014 Chief Financial Officer (CFO) (incumbent), general manager of 2015 Member of the board of Teijin Limited Business Group, general manager of manager, Accounting and Finance 2015 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2016 Chairman of the Sasakawa Peace Foundation Accounting, Finance & Procurement (incumbent) Resin & Plastic Processing Business Division (incumbent) 2015 Representative of Gen Ikegami CPA Office (incumbent) Division Unit 2014 Member of the board of Teijin Limited 2017 President of Healthcare Business of 2015 Member of the board of Teijin Limited Teijin Group (incumbent) 2017 President of Material Business of Teijin (incumbent), general manager of Group (incumbent) Corporate Strategy Office 2017 Representative director of the board of Member of the board of Teijin Limited Teijin Limited (incumbent), Chief Financial 2017 Chief Officer of Corporate Strategy, (incumbent) Legal and Intellectual Property, and Officer, Chief Information & Innovation Officer (incumbent) Global Business Strategy (incumbent) Chief Officers Business Group General Managers Chief Officer (Corporate Strategy) Yoshihisa Sonobe Material Business Group Toshiya Koyama Chief Financial Officer Kazuhiro Yamamoto Aramid Business Unit Gert W. Frederiks Chief Social Responsibility Officer Nobuyuki Takakura Carbon Fibers Business Unit Shukei Inui Chief Human Resources Officer Yasuhiro Hayakawa Resin & Plastic Processing Business Unit Eiji Ogawa Chief Officer (Engineering) Taizo Makari Films Business Unit Yoshihiro Nomi Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Yutaka Iimura Nobuo Seki Kenichiro Senoh Fumio Ohtsubo Chief Information & Innovation Officer Kazuhiro Yamamoto Fibers & Products Converting Business Group Shinji Nikko 1969 Joined Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 1970 Joined Chiyoda Corporation 1976 Joined Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd. (now 1971 Joined Matsushita Electric Works, Ltd. Chief Officer (Global Business Strategy) Yoshihisa Sonobe Composites Business Unit Akio Nakaishi Japan 2001 President & CEO of Chiyoda FUJIFILM Corporation) (now, Panasonic Corporation) 2002 Ambassador of Japan in Indonesia Corporation 2001 Professor, Graduate School of Keio 2006 President, Representative Director of Chief Officer (Legal, Intellectual Property) Yoshihisa Sonobe Material Technology Center Hiroyuki Umetani 2006 Ambassador of Japan in France 2007 Chairman of the board of Chiyoda University Media and Government Matsushita Electric Works, Ltd. 2009 Special Envoy of the Government of Corporation 2004 President and Chairperson, The 2012 Chairman of the Board, Representative President, Material Business of Teijin Group Yasumichi Takesue Healthcare Business Group Akihisa Nabeshima Japan (Middle East, Europe) 2012 Member of the board of Teijin Limited Industry-Academic Collaboration Director of Panasonic Corporation (incumbent) Initiative (NPO) (incumbent) 2013 Special advisor to Panasonic President, Healthcare Business of Teijin Group Hiroshi Uno Pharmaceutical Business Unit Ken-ichi Masuda 2011 Member of the board of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2012 Member of the board of Teijin Limited Corporation (incumbent) (incumbent) 2016 Member or Board of Teijin Limited Chief Officer (Special Project) Tsunehiro Ogawa Home Healthcare Business Unit Akihisa Nabeshima 2014 Special Assistant to the Minister for Foreign Affairs (incumbent) (incumbent) IT Business Group Norihiro Takehara 58 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 59 FACT DATA Financial Highlights and Consolidated 11-Year Summary Percentage Thousands of Millions of yen change U.S. dollars Years ended/as of March 31 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 Operating Results Net sales ¥1,009,586 ¥1,036,624 ¥ 943,410 ¥765,840 ¥815,656 ¥854,371 ¥745,713 ¥784,425 ¥786,171 ¥790,748 ¥ 741,292 –6.3% $ 6,607,469 Operating income 75,061 65,162 17,966 13,436 48,560 34,044 12,358 18,078 39,086 67,130 56,512 –15.8% 503,717 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent 34,125 12,613 (42,963) (35,684) 25,182 11,979 (29,131) 8,356 (8,086) 31,090 50,133 61.3% 446,858 Financial Position Total assets ¥ 999,917 ¥1,015,991 ¥ 874,157 ¥823,071 ¥761,535 ¥762,118 ¥762,399 ¥768,411 ¥823,695 ¥823,429 ¥ 964,053 17.1% $ 8,593,039 Interest-bearing debt 295,480 325,245 361,342 320,285 267,400 261,034 270,765 281,524 308,246 303,298 376,218 24.0% 3,353,400 Shareholders’ equity 366,753 391,010 305,577 271,306 284,236 292,030 271,252 281,680 287,074 300,113 338,384 12.8% 3,016,160 Cash Flows Cash flows from operating activities ¥ 96,456 ¥ 53,740 ¥ 40,392 ¥ 80,433 ¥ 77,132 ¥ 53,669 ¥ 64,305 ¥ 38,587 ¥ 76,030 ¥ 80,641 ¥ 79,040 $ 704,519 Cash flows from investing activities (87,065) (79,218) (116,304) (33,437) (27,745) (35,165) (37,868) (47,279) (49,624) (40,323) (127,650) (1,137,802) Free cash flow 9,391 (25,478) (75,912) 46,996 49,387 18,504 26,437 (8,692) 26,406 40,318 (48,610) (433,283) Cash flows from financing activities (19,074) 16,080 79,178 (42,949) (42,063) (14,123) (12,606) (7,902) 10,394 (8,317) 63,765 568,366 Major Indicators ROE (%) 9.7 3.3 (12.3) (12.4) 9.1 4.2 (10.3) 3.0 (2.8) 10.6 15.7 ROIC (based on operating income) (%) 11.4 9.3 2.6 2.1 8.5 6.3 2.3 3.4 7.1 12.7 10.0 EBITDA 129,070 127,829 85,330 75,315 104,971 86,348 59,234 63,742 82,116 106,024 95,843 854,292 Yen U.S. dollars Per Share Data Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ 183.9 ¥ 65.8 ¥ (218.3) ¥ (181.3) ¥ 128.0 ¥ 60.9 ¥ (148.1) ¥ 42.5 ¥ (41.1) ¥ 158.2 ¥ 254.9 $ 2.27 Shareholders’ equity 1,975.9 1,986.4 1,552.5 1,381.2 1,444.0 1,483.5 1,380.0 1,433.1 1,460.4 1,526.2 1,720.1 15.33 Cash dividends 50.0 40.0 25.0 10.0 25.0 30.0 20.0 20.0 20.0 35.0 55.0 0.49 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Other Data Capital expenditure ¥ 75,698 ¥ 84,641 ¥ 75,806 ¥ 36,314 ¥ 29,249 ¥ 32,294 ¥ 36,261 ¥ 30,182 ¥ 28,098 ¥ 38,341 ¥ 46,224 $ 412,015 Depreciation and amortization 54,009 62,668 67,364 61,879 56,410 52,304 46,877 45,664 43,030 38,894 39,331 350,575 R&D expenses 35,097 36,282 37,630 33,356 31,483 31,845 33,184 32,234 32,366 33,285 35,417 315,688 Number of employees 19,053 19,125 19,453 18,778 17,542 16,819 16,637 15,756 15,780 15,756 19,292 Notes: 1. The U.S. dollar amounts represent translations of Japanese yen, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥112.19 to U.S.$1.00, the prevailing exchange rate at Notes: 3. R  eturn on Invested Capital (ROIC) based on operating income is calculated as operating income divided by invested capital, while Earnings Before Interest, March 31, 2017. Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is calculated as operating income plus depreciation and amortization. Invested capital is calculated as net assets 2. Throughout this integrated report, return on equity (ROE) is calculated as net income divided by average shareholders’ equity. The debt-to-equity ratio is plus interest-bearing debt, minus cash and deposits. calculated as interest-bearing debt at year-end divided by shareholders’ equity at year-end. Shareholders’ equity is calculated as total net assets at year-end, 4. T  he Company consolidated its common shares at a ratio of 5 shares to 1 share on October 1, 2016. Accordingly, Per Share Data are calculated on the less subscription rights to shares at year-end and non-controlling interests at year-end. assumption that the consolidation of shares was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2006. Operating Margin Debt-to-Equity ■ Net Sales Operating Income ■ ■ EBITDA ROE ━ ■ Profit (Loss) Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share ■ Total Assets ■ Interest-Bearing Debt Ratio ━ (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Yen) (Billions of yen) (Times) 1,200 120 12 120 18 300 1,200 3.0 1,000 100 10 80 12 200 1,000 2.5 800 80 8 40 6 100 800 2.0 600 60 6 0 0 0 600 1.5 400 40 4 –6 –100 400 1.0 200 20 2 –12 –200 200 0.5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 –18 –300 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (As of March 31) 60 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 61 FACT DATA Management’s Discussion and Analysis Summary Billions of yen Tasks Ahead Results of Operations Years ended March 31 2016 2017 Change In order to realize our long-term vision, we will steadily press ahead Profit Attributable to with the implementation of our growth strategies, and our transformaOperating Environment 61.3% Net Sales Owners of Parent ¥31.1 ¥50.1 Global economic conditions in fiscal 2016, ended March 31, 2017, tion strategies, laid out in the new medium-term management plan Sales were generally steady across all businesses on the whole, but tracked a gradual expansionary path as a whole, as developed counProfit attributable to owners of parent increased 61.3% to ¥50.1 announced in February 2017. Concurrently, we will work to were impacted by the stronger yen in the first half of fiscal 2016. In tries centered on the U.S. drove firm growth, and the Chinese econbillion, partly due to a large decrease in tax expense in conjunction strengthen our management system platform underpinning these addition, as part of our restructuring initiatives, we halted production omy turned upward from the second half of the fiscal year due to with the adoption of tax effect accounting in connection with the strategies. In fiscal 2017, the first year of the plan, we will take conat our Singapore plant in the resin business to optimize our produceconomic stimulus measures. Meanwhile, the Japanese economy withdrawal from the home healthcare business in the U.S. crete strategic actions to maintain and strengthen profitability in tion configuration. As a result, the Electronics Materials and Perforsaw signs of improvement, including an upturn in business confiexisting businesses, nurture and expand new businesses, and mance Polymer Products segment reported a steep decline in sales. dence in the manufacturing industry due to a recovery in exports and Billions of yen advance Head Office restructuring initiatives, with a view to accomConsequently, net sales decreased ¥49.5 billion, or 6.3% year on As of March 31 2016 2017 Change other factors despite sluggish growth in personal consumption. plishing business portfolio transformation. year, to ¥741.3 billion. Total Assets ¥823.4 ¥964.1 17.1% By region, there was a general decline in overseas sales due to the Strategies in Action Total assets as of March 31, 2017 amounted to ¥964.1 billion, up impacts of the abovementioned foreign exchange movements and In fiscal 2016, the final year of the revised medium-term management 17.1% from the end of fiscal 2015. The increase in total assets was restructuring initiatives. However, sales to the U.S. expanded by 16% plan announced in 2014, we continued to put our principal emphasis primarily the result of increases in fixed assets, including goodwill, and year on year, mainly due to the completion of the acquisition of CSP on implementing measures aimed at achieving a self-driven recovery certain other items due to the completion of the acquisition of CSP in in January 2017 and the consolidation of CSP from the fourth quarter. in profitability and at improving our ability to generate cash without January 2017. There was also an increase in deferred tax assets in Meanwhile, domestic sales decreased 4%, mainly reflecting slowing relying on a favorable turn in the general operating environment. With conjunction with the adoption of tax effect accounting following the growth in sales of textile materials and products due to a downturn in this in mind, we steadily executed restructuring initiatives, in conjuncwithdrawal from the U.S. home healthcare business. spending on apparel and inventory adjustments by customers. tion with maximizing profit for the period by expanding sales of core Billions of yen Analysis of Net Sales products and services. In parallel, we took steps to spur our further Years ended March 31 2016 2017 (Years ended March 31) growth by investing actively in our transformation and growth Free Cash Flow ¥40.3 –¥48.6 strategies. 2016 Net Sales 790.7 Free cash flow was a negative ¥48.6 billion, with net cash and cash Advanced Fibers and Composites +3.7 Operating Results Electronics Materials and equivalents used in investing activities, such as the acquisition of CSP Performance Polymer Products –29.3 Billions of yen and purchase of other fixed assets exceeding net cash and cash Healthcare +0 Years ended March 31 2016 2017 Change equivalents provided by operating activities. Trading and Retail –11.3 Net Sales ¥790.7 ¥741.3 –6.3% Years ended March 31 2016 2017 Others –12.6 Net sales totaled ¥741.3 billion, a decrease of 6.3% year on year. This Key Indicators 2017 Net Sales 741.3 decrease was due in part to the impact of optimizing our production ROE 10.6% 15.7% configuration associated with restructuring initiatives mainly in the 0 700 750 800 850 resin business, in addition to the stronger yen in the first half of fiscal ROIC (based on operating income) 12.7% 10.0% (Billions of yen) 2016, although sales were generally steady across all businesses on D/E Ratio 1.01 times 1.11 times the whole. Return On Invested Capital (ROIC) decreased in line with the lower Costs and Expenses Billions of yen operating income and higher invested capital, while return on equity Cost of sales decreased 8.1%, or ¥43.4 billion, to ¥492.9 billion Years ended March 31 2016 2017 Change (ROE) improved dramatically, surpassing 15%, due to the increase in mainly due to a decrease in fixed expenses due to restructuring Operating Income ¥67.1 ¥56.5 –15.8% profit attributable to owners of parent. The debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio initiatives. As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales declined 1.3 increased slightly, as an increase in interest-bearing debt surpassed Operating income decreased 15.8% to ¥56.5 billion, due in part to percentage points to 66.5%. an increase in shareholders’ equity. the impacts of foreign exchange movements, new drug licensing Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased costs and downward revisions to Japan’s National Health Insurance 1.6%, or ¥2.5 billion, to ¥156.5 billion, due to increases in business (NHI) drug reimbursement prices, despite efforts to steadily expand acquisition-related costs and other items. SG&A expenses reprethe earnings base by driving growth in existing businesses and exesented 21.1% of net sales. cuting restructuring initiatives. R&D expenses increased 6.3%, or ¥2.1 billion, to ¥35.4 billion partly due to new drug licensing costs. 62 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 63 FACT DATA Management’s Discussion and Analysis Cost of Sales as a Percentage of Net Sales SG&A Expenses as a Percentage of Net Sales Analysis of Operating Income (Years ended March 31) Business Segment Results Carbon Fibers and Composites (%) (%) ■ Sales for use in aircraft grew steadily; Continental Structural 100 40 Plastics acquired. 2016 Operating Income 67.1 Advanced Fibers and Composites Cost reduction (including that realized Sales of TENAX carbon fibers continued to grow steadily for use in through restructuring initiatives) +7.0 75 30 Sales in the Advanced Fibers and Composites segment totaled aircraft. In other areas, sales for wind power generation in the Sales volume –0.5 ¥136.8 billion, an increase of 2.8%, while operating income was Americas and Europe were robust, but the supply-demand balance Change in spread –6.5 softened for general industrial use, and for sports and leisure applica50 20 ¥13.8 billion, down 25.2%. Advance development costs, others –10.6 Operating Margin tions in Asia. In addition, Pyromex Oxidized PAN fiber has continued 25 10 Operating Income 56.5 Sales Operating Income to post steady sales, reflecting favorable demand for use in aircraft 2017 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) brake pads. In response, a carbon fiber production line is being 160 20 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 0 20 40 60 80 converted into a Pyromex production line at Toho Tenax America, Inc. (Billions of yen) (Years ended March 31) In this environment, we are working to expand business centered 120 15 15 on composite materials to be used in mass-produced automotive Other Income (Expenses) components. As part of these efforts, in January 2017, we acquired Operating Income 80 10 10 Other expenses, a net figure, amounted to ¥22.6 billion, a deterioraContinental Structural Plastics Holdings Corporation (Headquarters: Operating income decreased 15.8%, or ¥10.6 billion, to ¥56.5 billion, tion of ¥1.0 billion from ¥21.5 billion in fiscal 2015. Michigan, U.S.A.; “CSP”), a global leader in automotive lightweight due in part to the impacts of foreign exchange movements, new drug 40 5 5 Principal factors contributing to this result included recording of composite technologies. CSP became our wholly owned subsidiary. licensing costs and downward revisions to NHI drug reimbursement business structure improvement expenses due to a decision to with0 0 0 Going forward, we will integrate CSP’s glass fiber reinforced plastic prices. 2014 2015 2016 2017 draw from the home healthcare business in the U.S. (GFRP) and our fiber reinforced plastic (FRP) technologies, specifically In the Advanced Fibers and Composites segment, profit decreased (Years ended March 31) carbon fiber reinforced thermoplastic (CFRTP) and carbon fiber reinmainly due to the impacts of foreign exchange movements and reguProfit Attributable to Owners of Parent High-Performance Fibers forced plastic (CFRP). In addition, we will drive the growth of CSP’s lar maintenance in aramid fibers. In the Electronics Materials and After deducting income taxes and loss attributable to non-controlling ■ Sales remained firm for automotive applications. components business model in the Americas, as we advance global Performance Polymer Products segment, profit decreased mainly due interests, we recorded a profit attributable to owners of parent of In aramid fibers, sales of Twaron para-aramid fibers expanded firmly market expansion of this business model to Europe, Japan and Asia. to the impacts of foreign exchange movements, although the seg¥50.1 billion, improving by ¥19.0 billion from a profit of ¥31.1 billion in for automotive applications, including for tires in Europe. In contrast, Through these measures, we will establish a strong business platform ment maintained steady profitability. In the Healthcare segment, profit fiscal 2015. As a result, ROE rebounded significantly from 10.6% to sales for oil drilling and ballistic protection applications were weak. in automotive composite products and will work to strengthen our declined slightly. However, robust results for core products and ser15.7%. Sales were firm for Technora para-aramid fibers both for automotive role as a supplier of Tier 1 components in this business. vices absorbed most of the impact of new drug licensing costs as The dramatic improvement in profit attributable to owners of parent applications in Japan and also for infrastructure-related applications Furthermore, to address further growth in demand for carbon fiber well as downward revisions to medical fees. In the Trading and Retail was supported in large part by a decrease in tax expenses that overseas. Technora is being used in an expanding range of applicaprimarily in North America, we have completed the acquisition of segment, profits increased reflecting the realization of an even more exceeded other expenses. The decreased tax expenses reflected the tions under more extreme conditions given the positive assessment land in the U.S. and are considering the construction of a new appropriate production configuration and growth in sales of products adoption of tax effect accounting following the decision to withdraw of its outstanding fatigue resistance, chemical barrier and other propcarbon fiber plant. for sports and outdoor use. from the U.S. home healthcare business. erties. Sales of Teijinconex meta-aramid fibers were robust for use in In addition, we carried out a fuel conversion of in-house power As a consequence of these and other factors, the operating margin automotive applications such as turbocharger hoses, as well as generation equipment at the Mishima Factory in Japan, a key carbon on sales dipped 0.9 of a percentage point, to 7.6%. protective clothing and industrial applications, despite persistently fiber production site, by switching from steam turbine generation Looking at the main factors in the operating income result, there fierce competition in the growing market for filter applications. Moreusing heavy oil to gas turbine power generation. As a result, we will was a positive contribution to profit improvement of around ¥7.0 over, at a new production facility in Thailand, where production and push ahead with the reduction of our environmental impact in conbillion from cost reductions (including those realized through restrucsales commenced in fiscal 2015, we are focused on expanding this junction with improving power generation efficiency. turing initiatives). Meanwhile, advance development costs, others due to the impacts of new drug licensing costs and foreign exchange particular business in promising Asian markets and emerging marmovements produced a negative impact of around ¥10.6 billion. kets, where high growth is expected against the backdrop of increasChanges in spread due to the impacts of downward revisions to NHI ingly stringent regulations pertaining to flame-retardant materials and drug reimbursement prices and foreign exchange movements had a environmental safety. negative impact of around ¥6.5 billion. In polyester fibers, solid sales were recorded for automotive applications, such as seat belts, conveyor belts and hose cords, and for use in personal hygiene products, wadding, and reverse osmosis membrane support layers for water treatment applications. Moreover, we are striving to further strengthen our competitiveness by realigning our domestic production configuration and by transferring production of certain items to subsidiaries in Thailand. 64 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 65 FACT DATA Management’s Discussion and Analysis naphthalate (PEN) resin to various pressure vessels by taking advantrials within one year. Also, in December 2016, we entered into a Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products tage of the features of PEN, including its chemical and gas barrier Healthcare collaboration and license agreement with Amgen Inc. of the U.S. resistance properties. In flame retardants, we are expanding the regarding research and development of new therapeutic agents for Sales in the Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Sales in the Healthcare segment totaled ¥147.5 billion, mostly market for new phosphorous products that lend high flame retarkidney diseases and disorders. In February 2017, we started phase III Products segment totaled ¥134.4 billion, a decrease of 17.9%, unchanged, while operating income was ¥27.6 billion, down 4.3%. while operating income was ¥18.5 billion, a decrease of 17.1%. dancy and bring easy colorability to polyester fibers as well as resins, Operating Margin clinical trials of ITM-058, a new treatment for osteoporosis. In March Operating Margin alongside our existing lineups, which are generating steady earnings. Sales Operating Income 2017, we started phase II clinical trials of TMX-049, a new treatment (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) Sales Operating Income (Loss) In regard to the “super engineering plastic” polyphenylene sulfide for hyperuricemia and gout, and phase II clinical trials of TMG-123, a (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 200 60 40 (PPS) resin, for which a mass-production structure is being estabnew treatment for Type 2 diabetes. 240 24 15 lished at INITZ Co., Ltd., a joint venture with SK Chemicals Ltd. of the Sales of febuxostat also continued to expand encouragingly over150 45 30 Republic of Korea (ROK), we are developing distinctive compound seas. We have secured exclusive distributorship agreements for 160 16 10 products leveraging Teijin’s proprietary technologies centered on febuxostat covering 117 countries and territories. The drug is cur100 30 20 automotive and electronics applications. rently sold in 67 of these countries and territories (including Japan), 80 8 5 and we are in the process of obtaining regulatory approval to make it 50 15 10 Films available in the others. 0 0 0 *1 Somatuline® is a registered trademark of Ipsen Pharma, France. ■ Integrated our domestic polyester film production facilities 0 0 0 and converted joint ventures in Japan and Indonesia into 2014 2015 2016 2017 *2 Bonalon® is the registered trademark of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., U.S.A. 2014 2015 2016 2017 –8 –5 (Years ended March 31) wholly owned subsidiaries. (Years ended March 31) Reflective films for use in liquid crystal display (LCD) televisions Home Healthcare Pharmaceuticals ■ Rental volumes either remained high or increased for all remained under pressure in terms of both volume and pricing due to the emergence of Chinese manufacturers. We posted relatively firm ■ Sales of our novel treatment for hyperuricemia and gout offerings. Resin and Plastics Processing expanded favorably. sales of Purex release films for manufacturing processes mainly for In Japan, we firmly maintained a high level of rental volume for thera■ Steady performance by polycarbonate resins, with a focus The domestic pharmaceuticals market continues to face a challenguse in multilayer ceramic capacitors for smartphones and other peutic oxygen concentrators for home oxygen therapy (HOT). Lookon further expanding high-performance applications. ing business environment. In this climate, sales of hyperuricemia and devices, as well as special packaging application exports and ing ahead, we will strive to further boost rental volume by enhancing Our mainstay Panlite and Multilon polycarbonate resin products saw gout treatment FEBURIC (febuxostat) and Somatuline®*1, a treatment polyethylene-​naphthalate (PEN) film for use in magnetic materials. the lineup and expanding the use of portable oxygen concentrators firm supply-demand dynamics and maintained steady profitability, for acromegaly, continued to expand steadily. In addition, we are Sales also remained strong for Panlite Sheet, a product made of (Hi-Sanso Portable α (alpha), Hi-Sanso Portable α II), which are owing to high capacity utilization maintained at both production sites providing patients with a wider range of choices through new formupolycarbonate resin, and ELECLEAR transparent electroconductive designed to expand the range of patients’ daily activities. Efforts will in China and Japan, plus an improved sales mix. However, there was lations, such as an oral jelly and an intravenous drip of the osteoporofilm, primarily for use in vehicle display applications. In addition, also be made to achieve the same for non-portable oxygen concena reduction in profits due to the impact of foreign currency conversion sis treatment Bonalon®*2, and Mucosolvan L Tablet 45 mg, a novel PURE-ACE optical film using specialty polycarbonate resin saw trators such as Hi-Sanso 5S. Rental volume for continuous positive reflecting the stronger yen. In this environment, we are taking initiareduced-sized tablet-form version of the sustained-release expectoexpanded sales for reverse-dispersion solvent-cast retardation film for airway pressure (CPAP) ventilators for the treatment of sleep apnea tives to further expand high-performance applications. In the automorant Mucosolvan. Also, we are working to expand sales of the transuse as an organic electroluminescent display (OLED) antireflective syndrome (SAS) continued to increase favorably, due to increasing tive market, we are working to apply polycarbonate resin molded dermal anti-inflammatory analgesic patch formulation LOQOA Tape, film, along with expanded sales for use in flexible printed circuits. the appeal of NemLink, a monitoring system for CPAP ventilators that products incorporating advanced coating technology to automotive which we began jointly marketing with Taisho Toyama Pharmaceutical In this climate, profit increased from fiscal 2015, owing to improveuses mobile phone networks, and to the use of the SAS2100 sleep windows. Also, we are actively expanding a copolymer polycarbonate Co., Ltd. in January 2016. ments in the sales mix of both polyester and polycarbonate films, as disorder diagnostic system. We will continue seeking to further boost featuring a high surface hardness to applications such as automotive On the R&D front, in July 2016, we applied for a new indication for well as contributions from lower costs due to the integration of domesrental volume by expanding the use of SLEEPMATE10, a model interior panels. In growing markets such as disaster readiness infratreatment of neuroendocrine tumors for Somatuline®*1, a treatment tic polyester film production facilities. Moreover, we acquired the shares featuring a built-in heater-humidifier in addition to NemLink functions. structure, housing, and healthcare, we are offering proposals encomfor agromegaly. In parallel, we began the clinical development of held by our joint venture partner E.I. du Pont de Nemours and To further fortify support services for individuals, we sought to passing the supply of products as well as materials, both of which are TMX-049DN (UK, Phase I) as a new treatment for diabetic nephropaCompany (Du Pont) in the film business joint ventures in Japan and improve our ability to respond to patient needs by capitalizing on our centered on high value added polycarbonate resins and their comthy in Type 2 diabetes. In August 2016, we signed an exclusive Indonesia. Business operations in Japan have recommenced under the home healthcare call centers in Fukuoka and Osaka, Japan. pounds. In addition, we are actively pushing ahead with providing license and supply agreement with Versartis, Inc. of the U.S. for the new company name Teijin Film Solutions Limited. In Indonesia, busiMeanwhile, in September 2015 we commenced sales of VitalLink, weight reduction, metal replacement and other solutions using propridevelopment and marketing of Somavaratan (VRS-317), a novel, ness operations have recommenced under the new company name of a multidisciplinary collaboration and information sharing system. We etary composite materials that combine polycarbonate resins with the long-acting form of recombinant growth hormone (rhGH) developed P.T. Indonesia Teijin Film Solutions. This deal will enable us to improve have steadily expanded sales of VitalLink by making progress on Teijin Group’s high-performance fibers (aramid fibers, carbon fibers). by Versartis, Inc. with its first planned indication being dwarfism management flexibility and decision-making speed. signing agreements with physicians through medical associations, in In high-performance resins, we are working to upgrade and caused by pediatric growth hormone deficiency (PGHD). In NovemLooking at overseas sites, in China, sales volume was mostly addition to signing agreements directly with primary care physicians. expand our lineup of specialty polycarbonate resins for camera lenses ber 2016, we received a request from the Japanese Ministry of unchanged from fiscal 2015 as market conditions remained sluggish. Moreover, in regard to a repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in order to offer optimal products for smartphones as well as for use Health, Labour and Welfare to develop an expanded indication of In the Americas and Europe, demand was relatively firm centered on device developed through an industry-academia partnership with in vehicle and surveillance cameras expected to see market expanSomatuline®*1 for thyroid stimulating hormone-secreting pituitary packaging applications. Osaka University and other partners, investigator-initiated clinical trials sion. In addition, we are accelerating the expansion of polyethylenetumors, and have begun taking actions targeting the start of clinical 66 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 67 FACT DATA Management’s Discussion and Analysis of intractable chronic pain using this device are under way at several automobiles declined due to the negative impact of domestic In resin and films, sales of PET films turned upward in the second technological capabilities, including the knowhow of Teijin Nakashima facilities. We also continued to expand our marketing efforts for the production adjustments by automakers, we posted expanded sales half of fiscal 2016 in step with a recovery in production in the market Medical Co., Ltd., which has already entered the market. WalkAide System, a neuromuscular electrical stimulation device of differentiated, high performance yarn for interior goods to major for electronic components, but this did not make up for the sluggish In the field of functional food ingredients, we made efforts to conproviding walking assistance in the case of gait impairment resulting retailers, as well as differentiated yarn for apparel, leading to a large sales in the first half. duct development and marketing activities that are resulting in food from stroke or other causes launched in fiscal 2013, which initially improvement in earnings. In uniform materials, earnings improved In initiatives to create other new businesses, we focused on manufacturers steadily increasing their adoption of BARLEYmax, an focused on the Tokyo metropolitan area, to medical institutions elseowing to cost reductions through the transfer of production overseas expanding sales of our “wearable cosmetics” Raffinan, disaster enhanced barley product. Looking ahead, we will continue to focus where in the country. Additionally, in November 2016 we launched and an increase in individual orders. mitigation-related products, Motanka, an emergency blanket, and on evidence acquisition and promotion to accelerate future business ReoGo-J, a portable robotic arm that supports the rehabilitation of In functional textiles and apparel, the business environment in Pullshelter, a disaster-readiness curtain. We also steadily advanced development. paralyzed upper limbs due to stroke. Besides expanding sales of Japan remained under pressure due to a downturn in spending on initiatives to commercialize products using wearable electrode both products, we will continue to upgrade and enhance our lineup of apparel, inventory adjustments by customers, and other factors. In textiles. Financial Position rehabilitation devices going forward. this environment, we promoted production at optimal sites and Overseas, we had been considering bold reorganization measures improved quality control in the production process. In conjunction Analysis of Assets, Liabilities, Net Assets and Cash Flows Others targeting the home healthcare business in the U.S. On April 27 (U.S. with this, we strove to drive earnings growth by expanding business Interest-bearing debt, at ¥376.2 billion, was up ¥72.9 billion mainly time), we decided to withdraw from the home healthcare business in targeting prominent retailers and apparel sectors, leveraging our Others, which does not qualify as a reportable operating segment, due to an increase in line with the procurement of funds for the acquithe U.S. by selling all of our equity in this business to a company strengths in planning and proposal-oriented business based on our generated sales of ¥63.0 billion, down 16.7%, and operating sition of CSP. Shareholders’ equity increased ¥38.3 billion due to a affiliated with Quadrant Management, Inc.* We will continue to underunique material SOLOTEX and the DELTA series. In June and Novemincome of ¥5.4 billion, down 17.2%. significant increase in profit attributable to owners of parent. However, take the home healthcare business in Spain and the ROK. ber 2016, we proposed and presented our differentiated businesses Operating Margin the debt-to-equity ratio increased to 1.11 times. The equity ratio was Sales Operating Income * An investment firm based in the U.S. that has a portfolio including a major to the markets through comprehensive exhibitions of textiles and 35.1%, down 1.3 percentage points. (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) home healthcare provider boasting one of the largest home healthcare businesses in the country. apparel staged by Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd., which enabled us to cap100 10.0 10.0 Japan’s Rating and Investment Information, Inc. maintained its ture customer needs and expand business. rating of our long-term debt at A– (stable), the same rating as in fiscal 75 7.5 7.5 2015. Trading and Retail Industrial Textiles and Materials Additionally, our debt payback period increased to 4.8 years, from ■ Favorable performance by automotive materials and civil 50 5.0 5.0 3.8 years in fiscal 2015, while our interest coverage ratio rose to 36.5 Sales in the Trading and Retail segment totaled ¥259.6 billion, a engineering materials. times, from 32.5 times in fiscal 2015. decrease of 4.2%, while operating income was ¥6.7 billion, an increase of 25.8%. In sales of automotive materials, sales of reinforcement materials for 25 2.5 2.5 tires, conveyor belts, and automotive hoses were firm. With the sales As of March 31, 2017 Rating Outlook Operating Margin volume of air-bag fabric remaining on a growth track, we have set our 0 0 0 Rating and Investment Information, Inc. A– Stable Sales Operating Income 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) sights on further expanding production. Sales of automotive interior (Years ended March 31) 320 10.0 8 materials and equipment struggled because of inventory adjustments ■ Assets, Liabilities and Net Assets The IT business posted a steady performance mainly due to steady by customers, but sales of fabric for synthetic leather grew Total assets as of March 31, 2017 amounted to ¥964.1 billion, up 240 7.5 6 growth in sales of MECCHA COMICS, an e-book distribution service significantly. ¥140.6 billion from the end of fiscal 2015. The increase in total assets in the net services category. In the IT services category, specifically in In other industrial textiles and related materials, in the Japanese was primarily the result of increases in fixed assets, including good160 5.0 4 the healthcare business, we bolstered sales of medical information market, we recorded solid sales of civil engineering materials includwill, and certain other items due to the completion of the acquisition systems including a radiology information system. At the same time, ing concrete flaking prevention sheets for use in disaster reconstrucof CSP in January 2017. There was also an increase in deferred tax 80 2.5 2 we are taking steps to expand into the nursing care field. Notably, we tion projects and arterial highways. In addition, we saw surging assets in conjunction with the adoption of tax effect accounting folbegan providing monitoring services using the Internet of Things (IoT) demand for AEROSHELTER provisional tents for disaster-readiness lowing the decision to withdraw from the U.S. home healthcare 0 0 0 and a nursing care recordkeeping system. 2014 2015 2016 2017 purposes and events. Sales were also solid for materials for agriculbusiness. (Years ended March 31) In new business development, sales of LIELSORT lithium-ion batture, fisheries, electronics and the environment. Moreover, in overseas Total liabilities amounted to ¥612.2 billion, up ¥103.2 billion from tery (LIB) separators were sluggish due to market conditions. In paralmarkets, we expanded business involving environmental materials for the end of fiscal 2015. Interest-bearing debt accounted for ¥376.2 lel, we stepped up our focus on developing new customers. Fiber Materials and Apparel China on the back of market expansion. billion of the total, up ¥72.9 billion mainly due to an increase in line In the area of new healthcare initiatives, we decided to establish a In living related materials, particularly interior materials, we recorded with the procurement of funds for the acquisition of CSP. ■ Focused on strengthening the operating structure and joint venture company in July 2017 that will be a medical company expanding differentiated businesses. increased profits from curtain materials due to the stronger yen, along Total net assets amounted to ¥351.8 billion, up ¥37.4 billion from spun off from Takiron Co., Ltd. in the field of implantable medical In fiber materials, sales of high-performance materials for sports and with firm sales of walland floor-covering materials. We also posted the end of fiscal 2015. Total shareholders’ equity and total accumuproducts. The formal agreement for the acquisition of the shares of outdoor use grew in the Americas and Europe, and the Japanese solid sales of wiping-related materials. In wellness related products, lated other comprehensive income together represented ¥338.4 the joint venture company was signed in January 2017. We will promarket, but profitability declined due to the impact of the stronger we steadily increased sales of personal hygiene products and billion of the total, an increase of ¥38.3 billion. There was an increase mote business development over the medium to long term in tandem yen. In addition, in polyester yarn, although sales volume for use in expanded the healthcare-related business with a major convenience in line with profit attributable to owners of parent, but this was partially with improving profit by leveraging the Teijin Group’s marketing and store chain. 68 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 69 FACT DATA Management’s Discussion and Analysis offset by the payment of dividends and by a decrease in foreign Outlook for Fiscal 2017 (Announced on August 1, 2017) Risk Factors R&D-Related Risk currency translation adjustment in connection with the stronger yen. The Teijin Group actively allocates management resources to R&D Forecast for Operating Results The Teijin Group recognizes certain risks as having the potential to with the aim of realizing sustainable growth through technology-driven ■ Cash Flows innovation. However, the outcome of such R&D may diverge signifiIn fiscal 2017, the global economy is expected to remain on a steady affect its operating results and/or financial position. As of the date of Net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities in cantly from the objectives thereof, a situation that has the potential to growth path on the whole, despite several risks associated with the this document, these risks included, but were not limited to, the risks fiscal 2016 amounted to ¥79.0 billion. This result reflected income negatively affect, among others, the Group’s operating results. direction of public policy in various countries. In developed countries, listed below. before income taxes, along with the impact of non-cash items such In particular, R&D in the pharmaceuticals business is characterized the employment environment has trended firmly in the U.S., and as depreciation and amortization, impairment loss and provision for by significant investments of funds and time. Pharmaceuticals discovcorporate business performance in the euro zone and Japan has also Market-Related Risk business structure improvement. ery research has a high incidence of failure. In the initial stages, there held firm. In emerging countries, surging demand for infrastructure is The Teijin Group is working to transform itself into a corporate entity Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities is a high risk that researchers will fail to discover a promising drug. expected to drive internal demand. that is not swayed by changes in the general operating environment. amounted to ¥127.7 billion, owing mainly to the acquisition of CSP Even if a promising drug is discovered, clinical trials may prove it not In this environment, in order to realize its long-term vision for Nonetheless, certain of the Group’s products are vulnerable to market and the purchase of other fixed assets. Free cash flow in fiscal 2016 to be as effective as anticipated, or to have unexpected adverse side becoming “An Enterprise that is Essential to Tomorrow’s Society,” as conditions, as a consequence of which the Group’s performance may was thus a negative as operating and investing activities combined effects, thereby forcing the abandonment of plans to apply for laid out in the “ALWAYS EVOLVING” Medium-Term Management Plan be affected by market trends, as well as by competition with other used a net total of ¥48.6 billion. approval. There is also a risk that a new drug candidate may not For 2017–2019 announced in February 2017, the Teijin Group has companies and sales price fluctuations arising thereof. Net cash and cash equivalents provided by financing activities receive regulatory approval as a result of the examination process clarified the actions it must take in the fiscal 2017–fiscal 2019 period. Businesses involving commoditized materials—notably polyester amounted to ¥63.8 billion. This reflected the net balance of compothat follows application, or that approval may be rescinded based on We have positioned fiscal 2017 as a crucial year that will serve as the fibers, polyester films and polycarbonate resin—are particularly vulnents including the net result of proceeds from shortand long-term the outcome of research conducted subsequent to launch. first step of our new medium-term management plan. Accordingly, nerable to fluctuations in shipments, sales prices and procurement debt and repayment thereof, and the payment of dividends. we will press ahead with our growth strategies for enhancing the costs for raw materials and fuel related to market conditions and After factoring in the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, operatRisks Related to Overseas Operations competitiveness of our existing businesses and our transformation competition with other companies. Because the cost of raw materials ing, investing and financing activities in the period under review The Teijin Group has operations in China, Southeast Asia (including strategies for entering fields outside existing businesses and creating and fuel accounts for a major portion of production costs in these resulted in a net increase in cash and cash equivalents of ¥16.6 billion Thailand), Europe (including Germany and the Netherlands) and the new products and services through business model transformation. businesses, fluctuations in the price of crude oil may have a signifias of March 31, 2017. U.S. These operations are vulnerable to the impact of fluctuations in By executing these strategies, we will work to strengthen our core cant impact on the Group’s income performance. Debt Payback Period Equity Ratio earnings power and to create and develop new businesses. The majority of products in the Teijin Group’s materials businesses foreign exchange and interest rates. Our operations may also be (Years) (%) Looking at our consolidated full-term operating results forecasts for are intermediates. Owing to inventory adjustments at each stage of affected by such factors as the enforcement of new—or unexpected 20 40 fiscal 2017, we are forecasting net sales of ¥855.0 billion, up 15.3% production and sales, the rate of expansion or contraction of end changes to existing—laws, regulations or tax systems that exert an from fiscal 2016. We also forecast operating income of ¥64.0 billion, up user demand for such products may exceed that of the real economy. adverse impact on the Group; economic fluctuations; or by social 15 30 13.2%, and ordinary income of ¥65.0 billion, up 16.2%. Profit attributThe Teijin Group’s Healthcare segment is vulnerable to changes in unrest triggered by, among others, changes of government or acts of able to owners of parent is forecast at ¥44.0 billion, down 12.2% from drug reimbursement prices under Japan’s National Health Insurance terror or war. The manifestation of such risks has the potential to 10 20 fiscal 2016. These forecasts assume exchange rates of ¥110 to (NHI) scheme, as well as to increasingly intense competition, both of adversely affect the Group’s operating results and/or financial US$1.00 and ¥124 to €1.00 and an average Dubai crude oil price of which may have a negative impact on sales prices. position. 5 10 US$50 per barrel. Fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates also have the potential to affect the Teijin Group’s operating results and/or financial Risks Related to Accidents and Disasters 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 The Teijin Group has prepared common disaster prevention guideForecast for Financial Position position. (Years ended March 31) lines for use by all Group companies and is an active proponent of In fiscal 2017, we will press forward with efforts to maintain and enhance financial soundness. At the same time, we will actively proProduct Quality Risk efforts to prevent and/or alleviate the impact of disasters through mote promising investments and projects with the potential to conTeijin and the principal companies of the Teijin Group, including Teijin disaster prevention diagnostics, earthquake response measures, fire tribute to future growth, in line with our transformation strategies. Our Pharma Limited, have established a dedicated product quality and prevention and other advance prevention strategies, disaster prevenforecasts for fiscal 2017 are for ROE of 12.2%, EBITDA of ¥107.0 reliability assurance function in the form of a division which functions tion education and training and post-disaster impact mitigation meabillion and a debt-to-equity ratio of 1.0 times. independently of other divisions. The division, which adheres to strict sures. Nonetheless, in the event of a major natural disaster or quality management standards, is charged with product quality and unforeseen accident that results in damage to the Group’s production reliability assurance for all Group businesses. However, there can be facilities or significantly impedes the Group’s supply chain, such no assurance that all products are free of unforeseen major quality developments may have a negative impact on the Group’s operating issues. Product and service defects arising from such quality issues results and/or financial position. have the potential to negatively affect, among others, the Group’s operating results, financial position and public reputation. 70 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 71 FACT DATA Consolidated Balance Sheets Thousands of Thousands of U.S. dollars U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Millions of yen (Note 1) As of March 31 2016 2017 2017 2016 2017 2017 ASSETS LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS Current assets: Current liabilities: Cash and time deposits (Notes 3 and 4) ¥ 72,122 ¥ 97,750 $ 871,290 Short-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) ¥ 55,528 ¥ 57,585 $ 513,281 Receivables: Current portion of long-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) 27,493 51,327 457,501 Notes and accounts receivable—trade (Note 4): Payables (Note 4): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 5,858 633 5,642 Notes and accounts payable—trade: Other 158,678 166,170 1,481,148 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 1,466 1,021 9,101 Short-term loans receivable (Note 4): Other 69,928 78,096 696,105 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 14,836 13,312 118,656 Other 25,683 29,934 266,815 Other 975 366 3,262 Income taxes payable 6,239 5,021 44,754 Other 11,703 13,175 117,435 Provision for business structure improvement 3,039 15,112 134,700 Securities (Notes 3 and 5) 29,000 20,000 178,269 Accrued expenses 24,997 26,262 234,085 Inventories (Note 7) 120,443 122,312 1,090,222 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 13) 52 54 481 Deferred tax assets (Note 13) 8,256 15,064 134,272 Other current liabilities 13,772 15,161 135,137 Other current assets 9,650 18,883 168,313 Total current liabilities 228,197 279,573 2,491,960 Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,016) (910) (8,111) Total current assets 430,505 466,755 4,160,398 Long-term liabilities: Long-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) 218,794 265,540 2,366,878 Property, plant and equipment (Note 11): Provision for business structure improvement 12,556 10,945 97,558 Land 43,080 44,493 396,586 Net defined benefit liability (Note 9) 30,440 35,428 315,786 Buildings and structures 189,695 192,100 1,712,274 Asset retirement obligations (Note 18) 2,405 1,323 11,792 Machinery, equipment and vehicles 571,536 584,970 5,214,101 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 13) 5,640 8,371 74,614 Tools 87,519 91,911 819,244 Other long-term liabilities 10,985 11,043 98,432 Construction in progress 8,475 15,471 137,900 Total long-term liabilities 280,820 332,650 2,965,060 Other 3,117 2,410 21,482 Subtotal 903,422 931,355 8,301,587 Accumulated depreciation (700,155) (690,065) (6,150,861) Net assets (Note 10) Total property, plant and equipment 203,267 241,290 2,150,726 Shareholders’ equity: Capital stock Authorized—3,000,000,000 shares in 2016 Intangible assets: 600,000,000 shares in 2017 Goodwill 7,297 32,738 291,809 Issued—984,758,665 shares in 2016 Other 9,356 36,303 323,585 196,951,733 shares in 2017 70,817 70,817 631,224 Total intangible assets 16,653 69,041 615,394 Capital surplus 101,474 103,664 924,004 Retained earnings 127,377 168,661 1,503,351 Investments and other assets: Treasury stock, at cost: 1  ,530,571 shares in 2016 Investment securities (Notes 4 and 5): 231,413 shares in 2017 (355) (275) (2,451) Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 39,330 38,543 343,551 Total shareholders’ equity 299,313 342,867 3,056,128 Other 80,284 88,794 791,461 Accumulated other comprehensive income: Long-term loans receivable (Note 4): Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 17,755 21,842 194,688 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 1,602 1,237 11,026 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges (1,304) (276) (2,460) Other 669 610 5,437 Foreign currency translation adjustments (15,072) (24,889) (221,847) Net defined benefit asset (Note 9) 32,553 37,988 338,604 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (579) (1,160) (10,340) Deferred tax assets (Note 13) 4,279 10,965 97,736 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 800 (4,483) (39,959) Other 16,453 10,922 97,353 Subscription rights to shares 837 862 7,683 Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,166) (2,092) (18,647) Non-controlling interests 13,462 12,584 112,167 Total investments and other assets 173,004 186,967 1,666,521 Total net assets 314,412 351,830 3,136,019 Total assets ¥ 823,429 ¥ 964,053 $ 8,593,039 Total liabilities and net assets ¥823,429 ¥964,053 $8,593,039 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 73 FACT DATA FACT DATA Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Thousands of Thousands of U.S. dollars U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Millions of yen (Note 1) Years ended March 31 2016 2017 2017 Years ended March 31 2016 2017 2017 Net sales ¥790,748 ¥741,292 $6,607,469 Net income ¥ 29,222 ¥51,389 $458,053 Costs and expenses: Other comprehensive income (Note 12): Cost of sales 536,309 492,862 4,393,101 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (6,483) 4,180 37,258 Selling, general and administrative expenses 154,024 156,501 1,394,964 Deferred gains or losses on hedges 1,266 1,027 9,154 Research and development expenses 33,285 35,417 315,687 Foreign currency translation adjustments (6,056) (7,702) (68,651) Operating income 67,130 56,512 503,717 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax (2,075) (305) (2,719) Other income (expenses): Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using the equity method (74) (2,306) (20,554) Interest and dividend income 2,311 2,510 22,373 Interest expenses (2,419) (2,224) (19,824) Total (13,422) (5,106) (45,512) Gain (loss) on sales of investment securities (10) 119 1,061 Comprehensive income ¥ 15,800 ¥46,283 $412,541 Gain on sales of noncurrent assets 306 318 2,834 Breakdown of comprehensive income: Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives (1,277) (541) (4,822) Comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 17,855 ¥44,850 $399,768 Gain on investments in partnership 324 1,100 9,805 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests (2,055) 1,433 12,773 Loss on sales and retirement of noncurrent assets (2,865) (4,772) (42,535) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Loss on valuation of investment securities (Note 5) (567) (27) (241) Impairment loss (Note 11) (7,565) (1,378) (12,283) Reversal of impairment loss 3,265 52 464 Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates (2,944) 2,079 18,531 Business structure improvement expenses (5,507) (16,315) (145,423) Reversal of provision for business structure improvement — 788 7,024 Gain on revision of retirement benefit plan (Note 9) — 193 1,720 Insurance income — 392 3,494 Other, net (4,601) (4,878) (43,479) Total other income (expenses) (21,549) (22,584) (201,301) Income before income taxes 45,581 33,928 302,416 Income taxes (Note 13): Current 13,070 12,026 107,194 Deferred 3,289 (29,487) (262,831) Total income taxes 16,359 (17,461) (155,637) Net income 29,222 51,389 458,053 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (1,868) 1,256 11,195 Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ 31,090 ¥ 50,133 $ 446,858 U.S. dollars Yen (Note 1) Profit attributable to owners of parent per share (Note 2) ¥158.15 ¥254.91 $2.27 Profit attributable to owners of parent per share—diluted 143.42 231.09 2.06 Cash dividends applicable to the year 35.00 55.00 0.49 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 74 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 75 FACT DATA Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Millions of yen Millions of yen Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Number of Total Valuation Deferred Foreign RemeasureTotal accumushares of Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ difference on gains currency ments of lated other Subscription common stock stock surplus earnings stock, at cost equity available-for-sale (losses) translation defined comprehensive rights to Non-controlling Total securities on hedges adjustments benefit plans income shares interests net assets Balance at March 31, 2015 984,758,665 ¥70,817 ¥101,447 ¥101,202 ¥(427) ¥273,039 Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥24,227 ¥(2,569) ¥ (8,102) ¥ 479 ¥ 14,035 ¥845 ¥15,717 ¥303,636 Changes of items during the period: Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (4,915) (4,915) Dividends from surplus (4,915) Net income 31,090 31,090 Net income 31,090 Purchase of treasury stock (41) (41) Purchase of treasury stock (41) Disposal of treasury stock 27 113 140 Disposal of treasury stock 140 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (6,472) 1,265 (6,970) (1,058) (13,235) (8) (2,255) (15,498) Total — 27 26,175 72 26,274 Total (6,472) 1,265 (6,970) (1,058) (13,235) (8) (2,255) 10,776 Balance at March 31, 2016 984,758,665 ¥70,817 ¥101,474 ¥127,377 ¥(355) ¥299,313 Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥17,755 ¥(1,304) ¥(15,072) ¥ (579) ¥ 800 ¥837 ¥13,462 ¥314,412 Changes of items during the period: Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (8,849) (8,849) Dividends from surplus (8,849) Net income 50,133 50,133 Net income 50,133 Purchase of treasury stock (24) (24) Purchase of treasury stock (24) Disposal of treasury stock 12 104 116 Disposal of treasury stock 116 Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with non-controlling interests 2,178 2,178 Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with Net changes of items other than shareholders’ non-controlling interests 2,178 equity Net changes of items other than Total — 2,190 41,284 80 43,554 shareholders’ equity 4,087 1,028 (9,817) (581) (5,283) 25 (878) (6,136) Balance at March 31, 2017 196,951,733 ¥70,817 ¥103,664 ¥168,661 ¥(275) ¥342,867 Total 4,087 1,028 (9,817) (581) (5,283) 25 (878) 37,418 Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥21,842 ¥ (276) ¥(24,889) ¥(1,160) ¥ (4,483) ¥862 ¥12,584 ¥351,830 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders’ equity Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Total Accumulated other comprehensive income Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ stock surplus earnings stock, at cost equity Valuation Deferred Foreign RemeasureTotal accumudifference on gains currency ments of lated other Subscription Balance at March 31, 2016 $631,224 $904,483 $1,135,369 $(3,164) $2,667,912 available-for-sale (losses) translation defined comprehensive rights to Non-controlling Total securities on hedges adjustments benefit plans income shares interests net assets Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (78,876) (78,876) Balance at March 31, 2016 $158,258 $(11,623) $(134,344) $ (5,161) $ 7,130 $7,461 $119,993 $2,802,496 Net income 446,858 446,858 Changes of items during the period: Purchase of treasury stock (214) (214) Dividends from surplus (78,876) Disposal of treasury stock 107 927 1,034 Net income 446,858 Change in ownership interest of parent due Purchase of treasury stock (214) to transactions with non-controlling interests 19,414 19,414 Disposal of treasury stock 1,034 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ Change in ownership interest of equity parent due to transactions with Total — 19,521 367,982 713 388,216 non-controlling interests 19,414 Balance at March 31, 2017 $631,224 $924,004 $1,503,351 $(2,451) $3,056,128 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 36,430 9,163 (87,503) (5,179) (47,089) 222 (7,826) (54,693) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Total 36,430 9,163 (87,503) (5,179) (47,089) 222 (7,826) 333,523 Balance at March 31, 2017 $194,688 $ (2,460) $(221,847) $(10,340) $(39,959) $7,683 $112,167 $3,136,019 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 76 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 77 FACT DATA FACT DATA Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements TEIJIN LIMITED Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) Note 1 Basis of presenting consolidated financial statements Years ended March 31 2016 2017 2017 Cash flows from operating activities: The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Teijin Limited The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been Income before income taxes ¥ 45,581 ¥ 33,928 $ 302,416 (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with the provireformatted and translated into English with some expanded descripDepreciation and amortization 38,894 39,331 350,575 sions set forth in Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the tions from the consolidated financial statements of the Company Impairment loss 7,565 1,378 12,283 “Law”) and the related accounting regulations, and in conformity with prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP and filed with the approReversal of impairment loss (3,265) (52) (463) Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability 604 3,237 28,853 accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”), priate Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as required by Decrease (increase) in net defined benefit asset (1,777) (5,586) (49,791) which are different in certain respects as to application and disclosure the Law. Certain supplementary information included in the statutory Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts (754) (225) (2,006) requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Japanese-language consolidated financial statements, but not required Increase (decrease) in provision for business structure improvement 974 10,463 93,261 The Company adopted the “Practical Solution on Unification of for fair presentation, is not presented in the accompanying consoliInterest and dividend income (2,311) (2,510) (22,373) Interest expenses 2,419 2,224 19,824 Accounting Policies Applied to Foreign Subsidiaries for Consolidated dated financial statements. Equity in losses (earnings) of affiliates 2,944 (2,079) (18,531) Financial Statements” (Practical Issues Task Force (“PITF”) No. 18, The translation of the Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar Loss (gain) on sales and retirement of noncurrent assets 2,559 4,454 39,701 issued by the Accounting Standards Board of Japan (“ASBJ”) on amounts is included solely for the convenience of readers outside Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities 10 (119) (1,061) February 19, 2010). In principle, the Company has unified the accountJapan, using the prevailing exchange rate at March 31, 2017, which Loss (gain) on valuation of derivatives 1,277 541 4,822 Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 567 27 241 ing standards for overseas subsidiaries and makes necessary adjustwas ¥112.19 to U.S. $1.00. The convenience translations should not Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable—trade 2,999 5,253 46,822 ments upon consolidation. There were no material effects as a result of be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts have Decrease (increase) in inventories (6,933) 990 8,824 the adoption of PITF No. 18 on the consolidated financial statements been, could have been or could in the future be converted into U.S. Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable—trade (550) 2,192 19,538 for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017. dollars at this or any other rate of exchange. Increase (decrease) in accrued payments due to change in retirement benefits (2,015) — — Other, net 1,366 (4,010) (35,743) Subtotal 90,154 89,437 797,192 Note 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Interest and dividend income received 6,589 6,022 53,677 Interest expenses paid (2,482) (2,168) (19,324) Consolidation maturities not exceeding three months at the time of purchase are Income taxes paid (13,620) (14,251) (127,026) The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the considered to be cash and cash equivalents. Net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities 80,641 79,040 704,519 Company and 89 significant subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, Cash flows from investing activities: 2017 (69 in 2016). Investments made in 80 (84 in 2016) unconsoliAllowance for doubtful accounts Purchase of property, plant and equipment (31,895) (37,663) (335,707) dated subsidiaries and affiliates are, with minor exceptions, stated at The allowance for doubtful accounts is provided in amounts sufficient Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 669 2,415 21,526 Purchase of intangible assets (2,802) (2,941) (26,214) cost, adjusted for equity in undistributed earnings and losses to cover possible losses on collection. It is determined by adding the Purchase of investment securities (2,406) (2,642) (23,549) since acquisition. individually estimated uncollectible amounts of certain accounts to an Proceeds from sales of investment securities 848 2,026 18,059 Companies which are 40% or more owned and substantially conamount calculated using the provision rate based on past experience. Purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation — (82,890) (738,836) trolled by the Company are considered subsidiaries for inclusion in the Decrease (increase) in short-term loans receivable (2,643) (2,380) (21,214) Payments of long-term loans receivable (59) (22) (196) consolidation. Equity method accounting is applied to unconsolidated Securities Collection of long-term loans receivable 189 91 811 subsidiaries and affiliates which are substantially controlled or of which Under the Japanese accounting standard for financial instruments, all Other, net (2,224) (3,644) (32,482) operating and financial policies are significantly influenced by companies are required to classify securities as (a) securities held for Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities (40,323) (127,650) (1,137,802) the Company. trading purposes (“trading securities”), (b) debt securities intended to Cash flows from financing activities: In the elimination of investments in subsidiaries, the assets and be held to maturity (“held-to-maturity debt securities”), (c) equity secuNet increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable 3,146 1,605 14,306 liabilities of the subsidiaries, including the portion attributable to rities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies, and (d) all other Redemption of bonds (20,770) — — non-controlling interests, are evaluated using the fair value at the time securities that are not classified in any of the above categories Proceeds from long-term loans payable 36,707 98,761 880,301 Repayment of long-term loans payable (21,821) (27,310) (243,426) the Company acquired control of the respective subsidiaries. (“available-for-sale securities”). Cash dividends paid (4,914) (8,849) (78,875) Goodwill is usually amortized using the straight-line method over the The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Companies”) Cash dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (284) (373) (3,325) estimated useful life from 5 to 20 years. do not hold trading securities. Held-to-maturity debt securities are Proceeds from share issuance to non-controlling shareholders — 1,817 16,196 Of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries, 12 subsidiaries in 2017 stated at amortized cost. Payments from changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in change in scope of consolidation — (1,585) (14,128) and 2016 did not change their fiscal year-end of December 31. These Equity securities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies, Other, net (381) (301) (2,683) 12 subsidiaries prepared, for consolidation purposes, provisional finanwhich are not consolidated or accounted for using the equity method, Net cash and cash equivalents (used in) provided by financing activities (8,317) 63,765 568,366 cial statements for the period that correspond to the fiscal year of are stated at moving-average cost. Available-for-sale securities with Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,971) 823 7,336 the Company. available fair market values are stated at fair market value. Unrealized Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 30,030 15,978 142,419 gains and losses on these securities are reported, net of applicable Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 70,562 100,955 899,857 Statements of cash flows income taxes, as a separate component of net assets. Realized gains Increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from change in scope of consolidation 363 617 5,500 In preparing the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash on hand, and losses on sales of such securities are computed using moving-​ Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 3) ¥100,955 ¥ 117,550 $ 1,047,776 readily available deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with average cost. See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 78 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 79 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Debt securities with no available fair market value are stated at years of service. Income taxes the year ended March 31, 2016. Profit attributable to owners of parent amortized cost, net of the amount considered not collectible. Other The liabilities and expenses for severance and retirement benefits The provision for income taxes is based on income for financial stateper share for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 is calculated securities with no available fair market value are stated at moving-​ are determined based on the amounts actuarially calculated using ment purposes. Income taxes comprise corporation tax, enterprise tax based on the following factors: average cost. certain assumptions. The Companies provided for employees’ severand prefectural and municipal inhabitants’ taxes. The assets and liabiliIf the market value of held-to-maturity debt securities, equity securiance and retirement benefits at March 31, 2016 and 2017 based on ties approach is used to recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for Year ended March 31, 2016 ties issued by unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies the estimated amounts of projected benefit obligation and the fair value the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences (a) Profit attributable to owners of parent: ¥31,090 million and available-for-sale securities declines significantly, such securities of the plan assets at those dates. between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial (b) Amount not attributable to common shareholders: ¥ — million are stated at fair market value and the difference between fair market The method of attributing expected benefits to periods is on the reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. (c) Bonuses to directors and statutory value and the carrying amount is recognized as a loss in the period of benefit formula basis. Prior service costs and actuarial gains and The Company and its wholly owned domestic consolidated subsidauditors included in (b): ¥ — million the decline. If the fair market value of equity securities issued by losses are recognized in expenses using the straight-line method over iaries have adopted consolidated tax return filing under Japanese (d) Profit attributable to owners of parent unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies not accounted mainly 12 years, which is within the average of the estimated remaining tax regulations. allocated to common stock: ¥31,090 million for using the equity method is not readily available, the securities will service years of the employees, commencing with the current and the (e) Average number of shares outstanding be written down to net asset value with a corresponding charge in the following period, respectively. In October 2016, the Company and Translation of foreign currency during the period: 196,589 thousand shares* (f) Increase in number of shares: 19,979 thousand shares consolidated statements of income in the event net asset value certain consolidated subsidiaries transferred a portion of their defined Cash, receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are (g) Increase in number of subscription rights declines significantly. In these cases, the fair market value or the net benefit pension plan to a defined contribution pension plan. translated into Japanese yen at year-end exchange rates. All revenues to shares included in (f): 19,979 thousand shares asset value will be the carrying amount of the securities at the beginand expenses in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange (h) Summary of outstanding potential shares ning of the following year. Liabilities arising from the application of the equity method rates prevailing when such transactions are made. The resulting excluded from the computation of diluted Liabilities arising from the application of the equity method have been exchange loss or gain is charged or credited to income. EPS, if calculated for the period, since Inventories provided with respect to losses that may arise from the Company’s The balance sheet accounts of the overseas consolidated subsidiarsuch potential shares do not have a dilutive effect: — Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or net portion of the capital deficits of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliies and foreign investments accounted for by the equity method are realizable value. ates that are accounted for by the equity method, after giving considtranslated at the rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date, Year ended March 31, 2017 eration to the Company’s investments in, and guarantees for, except for capital accounts and assets and liabilities due to/from the (a) Profit attributable to owners of Property, plant and equipment such companies. Company, which are translated at historical rates. Accounts in the parent: ¥50,133 million ($446,858 thousand) Property, plant and equipment are amortized using the straight-line consolidated statements of income are translated at the average rates (b) Amount not attributable to method over the estimated useful life of the asset. Provision for business structure improvement of exchange for the year. Differences arising from translations are common shareholders: ¥ — million ($ — thousand) The provision is provided in amounts sufficient to cover possible losses presented as “Foreign currency translation adjustments” in the accom(c) Bonuses to directors and statutory auditors included in Intangible assets for business structure improvement. panying consolidated financial statements. The Companies report (b): ¥ — million ($ — thousand) Goodwill, patents, trademarks and other intangible assets are amorforeign currency translation adjustments in net assets. (d) Profit attributable to owners of tized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of Derivatives and hedge accounting parent allocated to common the asset. The Companies state derivative financial instruments at fair value and Profit attributable to owners of parent per share stock: ¥50,133 million ($446,858 thousand) Software for internal use is amortized using the straight-line method recognize changes in the fair value as gain or loss unless the derivative Computations of profit attributable to owners of parent per share of (e) Average number of shares outstanding during the over the estimated useful life, i.e. 5 to 10 years. financial instruments are used for hedging purposes. common stock are based on the weighted-average number of shares period:* 196,668 thousand shares* If derivative financial instruments are used as hedges and meet outstanding during each period. Diluted profit attributable to owners of (f) Increase in number of shares: 20,147 thousand shares Research and development expenses certain hedging criteria, the Companies defer recognition of the gain or parent per share is calculated based on the assumption that all dilutive (g) Increase in number of The Company charges research and development expenses to income loss resulting from a change in fair value of the derivative financial convertible debentures and stock warrants were converted or exersubscription rights to shares as incurred. instrument until the related gain or loss on the hedged item cised at the beginning of the year or at the time of issue. included in (f): 20,147 thousand shares is recognized. Cash dividends per share represent amounts applicable for the (h) Summary of outstanding potential shares excluded from Retirement benefits If a forward foreign exchange contract is executed to hedge a future respective years on an accrual basis. the computation of diluted Employees transaction denominated in a foreign currency, the forecast transaction The Company implemented a share consolidation on its common EPS, if calculated for the The Company has an unfunded lump-sum benefit plan and a funded will be recorded using the contracted forward rate on recognition, and stock with a ratio of five shares to one share on October 1, 2016. period, since such potential contributory pension plan, generally covering all employees. Certain no gains or losses on the forward foreign exchange contract are recProfit attributable to owners of parent per share of common stock shares do not have a dilutive consolidated subsidiaries have unfunded lump-sum benefit plans and ognized (the “principle-based method”). and Cash dividends per share are calculated based on the assumption effect: — * 5 shares of common stock were consolidated into 1 share on October 1, 2016. non-contributory pension plans. Most overseas subsidiaries do not If interest rate swap contracts of the Company are used as hedges that consolidation of shares had been carried out at the beginning of have pension plans. and meet certain hedging criteria, the net amount to be paid or Under the terms of the lump-sum benefit plans, eligible employees received under the interest rate swap contract is added to or deducted are, upon mandatory retirement at age 60 or voluntary termination from the interest on the assets or liabilities for which the swap contract before such age, entitled under most circumstances to a lump-sum was executed (the “special method”). payment based on their compensation at the time of severance and 80 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 81 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Reclassifications and restatements) (Additional information) the due date. The Companies also review the credit risk of their effectiveness by comparing the cumulative changes in cash Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified and restated to The Company and its domestic subsidiaries adopted “Revised Implemain customers periodically in accordance with the Company’s flows from, or the changes in fair value of, hedged items with conform to the current year’s presentation. These reclassifications and mentation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets” (ASBJ credit management regulations. the corresponding changes in the hedging restatements have no impact on previously reported results of operaGuidance No. 26, March 28, 2016 (hereinafter, “Guidance No.26”)) Marketable securities are negotiable certificates of deposit derivative instruments. tions or retained earnings. from the current fiscal year. subject to settlement in the short term. Securities are exposed The Companies report periodically to the Chief Financial to market price fluctuation risk; however, the Companies only Officer and the Treasury Office on the actual results of derivative Note 3 Statements of cash flows hold shares in firms with which they have business relations transactions. Furthermore, the Companies enter into contracts and these are not held for speculation. with banks and securities houses with high credit ratings to (1) The reconciliations of cash and time deposits in the consolidated balance sheets and cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statements The due dates of notes and accounts payable—trade are minimize credit risk exposure. of cash flows, as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as follows: mainly within one year. Thousands of Short-term loans receivable are used mainly for operating (c) Supplementary information on fair values Millions of yen U.S. dollars purposes, and funding through corporate bonds and long-term The fair value of financial instruments is calculated based on 2016 2017 2017 loans payable is mainly for capital investment. Debts with a quoted market price or, in cases where there is no market Cash and time deposits in the consolidated balance sheets ¥ 72,122 ¥ 97,750 $ 871,290 floating rate are exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk, but price, by making a reasonable estimation. Because the preconSecurities 29,000 20,000 178,269 interest on some long-term loans payable is converted to a ditions applied include a floating element, estimations of fair Time deposits with maturities exceeding three months (167) (200) (1,783) fixed rate through interest rate swap transactions. value may vary. The contracted amounts, as presented in Note Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statements of cash flows ¥100,955 ¥117,550 $1,047,776 The Companies use derivative transactions of, for example, 6, “Derivative transactions,” do not reflect market risk. forward currency exchange and currency swaps that are used (2) Important non-cash transactions to hedge the risk of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange (2) Fair values of financial instruments The amounts recognized for important asset retirement obligations as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as follows: rates with respect to monetary receivables and payables The following tables summarize fair value and book value of the denominated in foreign currencies resulting from import and financial instruments, and the difference between them, as of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars export transactions. With respect to other derivative transacMarch 31, 2016 and 2017. Items for which fair value is difficult to 2016 2017 2017 tions, interest rate swap transactions are used to hedge the risk estimate are not included in the following tables. Important asset retirement obligations recognized ¥(2,397) ¥764 $6,810 of fluctuation in interest rates. The Companies evaluate hedge Millions of yen (3) Assets and liabilities of newly consolidated subsidiaries through acquisition of shares 2016 Assets and liabilities of acquired companies (Continental Structural Plastics Holdings Corporation and its 15 consolidated subsidiaries), acquisiBook value Fair value Difference tion cost of shares and net cash outflow for such acquisition are as follows: (1) Cash and time deposits ¥ 72,122 ¥ 72,122 ¥ — (2) Receivables 164,536 164,536 — Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (3) Short-term loans receivable 15,757 15,757 — Current assets ¥ 20,653 $ 184,089 (4) Marketable securities and investment securities 103,692 103,692 — Noncurrent assets 65,794 586,452 (5) Long-term loans receivable 2,325 — — Goodwill 29,805 265,665 Allowance for doubtful accounts* (519) — — Current liabilities (10,556) (94,090) 1,806 1,806 — Noncurrent liabilities (20,617) (183,769) Total ¥357,913 ¥357,913 ¥ — Acquisition cost of shares 85,079 758,347 (1) Payables ¥ 71,394 ¥ 71,394 ¥ — Account payables included in the acquisition price (470) (4,189) (2) Short-term loans payable 55,528 55,528 — Cash and cash equivalents (1,719) (15,322) (3) Bonds 55,149 61,368 6,219 Net cash used for the acquisition ¥ 82,890 $ 738,836 (4) Long-term loans payable 191,138 193,205 2,067 Total ¥373,209 ¥381,495 ¥8,286 Note 4 Fair value of financial instruments Derivative transactions† (1) To which hedge accounting is not applied ¥ 5,110 ¥ 5,110 ¥ — (1) Qualitative information on financial instruments speculation or trading purposes. (2) To which hedge accounting is applied (1,814) (1,814) — (a) Policies for using financial instruments Total ¥ 3,296 ¥ 3,296 ¥ — The Companies’ fund management policy is to put money into (b) Details of financial instruments used and the exposure to short-term deposits only and to raise money through loans risk and how it arises payable, commercial paper and corporate bonds. Notes and accounts receivable—trade are exposed to customThe Companies principally enter into derivative transactions ers’ credit risk. To manage that risk, the Companies check the in connection with managing their market risk and not for balance of the accounts and confirm the collection of money at 82 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 83 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen (Note 1) The method of estimating the fair value for securities and derivative transactions is as follows: 2017 Book value Fair value Difference Assets (1) Cash and time deposits ¥ 97,750 ¥ 97,750 ¥ — (1) Cash and time deposits, (2) Receivables and (3) Short-term loans receivable (2) Receivables 166,803 166,803 — The terms of all of the above are short term and the fair value thereof is nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as (3) Short-term loans receivable 13,407 13,407 — fair value. (4) Marketable securities and investment securities 102,007 102,007 — (4) Marketable securities and investment securities (5) Long-term loans receivable 2,118 — — The fair value of shares is the market price. The terms of negotiable certificates of deposit are short term and the fair value thereof is Allowance for doubtful accounts* (513) — — 1,605 1,605 — nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as fair value. See Note 5, “Market securities and investment securities” for Total ¥381,572 ¥381,572 ¥ — information on investment securities categorized by holding purpose. (1) Payables ¥ 79,117 ¥ 79,117 ¥ — (5) Long-term loans receivable (2) Short-term loans payable 57,585 57,585 — The fair value of long-term loans receivable, categorized by term, is discounted by the interest rate that is based on that of govern(3) Bonds 55,110 61,419 6,309 ment bonds, to which a spread that reflects credit risk has been added. (4) Long-term loans payable 261,758 262,334 576 Moreover, the fair value of long-term loans receivable that are doubtful is estimated in the same way or is provided in an amount Total ¥453,570 ¥460,455 ¥6,885 sufficient to cover possible losses on collection. Derivative transactions† (1) To which hedge accounting is not applied ¥ 5,010 ¥ 5,010 ¥ — Liabilities (2) To which hedge accounting is applied (361) (361) — (1) Payables and (2) Short-term loans payable Total ¥ 4,649 ¥ 4,649 ¥ — The terms of all of the above are short term and the fair value thereof is nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as fair value. Thousands of U.S. dollars (3) Bonds 2017 The fair value of corporate bonds is calculated based on market price. In cases where there is no market price, fair value is calcuBook value Fair value Difference lated by using the discounted cash flow based on the sum of the principal and total interest of the remaining period and credit risk. (1) Cash and time deposits $ 871,290 $ 871,290 $ — (4) Long-term loans payable (2) Receivables 1,486,790 1,486,790 — The fair value of long-term loans payable is the sum of the principal and total interest discounted by the rate that is applied if a new (3) Short-term loans receivable 119,503 119,503 — loan is made. Certain long-term loans payable with floating rates are tied to interest rate swap transactions and subject to (4) Marketable securities and investment securities 909,234 909,234 — special treatment. (5) Long-term loans receivable 18,878 — — Allowance for doubtful accounts* (4,573) — — 14,305 14,305 — Derivative transactions Total $3,401,122 $3,401,122 $ — See Note 6, “Derivative transactions.” (1) Payables $ 705,206 $ 705,206 $ — (2) Short-term loans payable 513,281 513,281 — (Note 2) Financial instruments for which fair value is difficult to estimate: (3) Bonds 491,221 547,455 56,234 Thousands of (4) Long-term loans payable 2,333,167 2,338,301 5,134 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Total $4,042,875 $4,104,243 $61,368 2016 2017 2017 Derivative transactions† Unlisted shares ¥ 5,388 ¥ 5,407 $ 48,195 (1) To which hedge accounting is not applied $ 44,656 $ 44,656 $ — Shares in affiliated companies 28,973 27,690 246,813 (2) To which hedge accounting is applied (3,218) (3,218) — Total ¥34,361 ¥33,097 $295,008 Total $ 41,438 $ 41,438 $ — * Allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated for each category and is deducted from long-term loans receivable. Market prices of the above shares are not available and the future cash flow cannot be estimated. Therefore, fair value is difficult to † Derivative transactions are presented net of receivables and liabilities, and figures within parenthesis indicate net liabilities. estimate. Accordingly, these are not included in “(4) Marketable securities and investment securities.” 84 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 85 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 3) Expected repayment amounts of monetary assets and securities with maturity after the date of the accounting period are as follows: (d) Available-for-sale securities with no fair values as of March 31, 2016 consisted mostly of non-listed equity securities and others amounting to ¥3,813 million and ¥1,575 million, respectively. Millions of yen (e) Impairment loss on available-for-sale securities of ¥567 million was recognized as of March 31, 2016. 2016 One year to Within one year five years Over five years (2) Information on securities held by the Companies at March 31, 2017 is as follows: Cash and time deposits ¥ 72,122 ¥ — ¥ — (a) There were no held-to-maturity debt securities with fair values at March 31, 2017. Receivables 164,536 — — (b) The following table summarizes acquisition costs and book values (fair values) of available-for-sale securities with fair values as of March Short-term loans receivable 15,757 — — 31, 2017. Long-term loans receivable 54 1,771 500 Millions of yen Millions of yen 2017 2017 Acquisition cost Book value Difference One year to Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Within one year five years Over five years Corporate shares ¥14,908 ¥ 46,893 ¥31,985 Cash and time deposits ¥ 97,750 ¥ — ¥ — Receivables 166,803 — — Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Short-term loans receivable 13,407 — — Corporate shares 36,402 35,114 (1,288) Long-term loans receivable 271 1,347 500 Negotiable certificates of deposit 20,000 20,000 — Total ¥71,310 ¥102,007 ¥30,697 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 Thousands of U.S. dollars One year to Within one year five years Over five years 2017 Cash and time deposits $ 871,290 $ — $ — Acquisition cost Book value Difference Receivables 1,486,790 — — Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Short-term loans receivable 119,503 — — Corporate shares $132,881 $417,978 $285,097 Long-term loans receivable 2,415 12,006 4,457 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares 324,467 312,987 (11,480) (Note 4) Repayment schedule of bonds and long-term loans payable: Negotiable certificates of deposit 178,269 178,269 — See Note 8, “Loans payable.” Total $635,617 $909,234 $273,617 Note 5 Marketable securities and investment securities (c) Total sales of available-for-sale securities in the year ended March 31, 2017 and the related gains and losses amounted to ¥2,026 million (1) Information on securities held by the Companies at March 31, 2016 is as follows: ($18,059 thousand), ¥119 million ($1,061 thousand) and ¥0 million ($0 thousand), respectively. (a) There were no held-to-maturity debt securities with fair values at March 31, 2016. (d) Available-for-sale securities with no fair values as of March 31, 2017 consisted mostly of non-listed equity securities and others amounting to (b) The following table summarizes acquisition costs and book values (fair values) of available-for-sale securities with fair values as of March ¥2,787 million ($24,842 thousand) and ¥2,620 million ($23,353 thousand), respectively. 31, 2016. (e) Impairment loss on available-for-sale securities of ¥27 million ($241 thousand) was recognized as of March 31, 2017. Millions of yen 2016 Acquisition cost Book value Difference Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares ¥12,576 ¥ 41,851 ¥29,275 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares 37,471 32,841 (4,630) Negotiable certificates of deposit 29,000 29,000 — Total ¥79,047 ¥103,692 ¥24,645 (c) Total sales of available-for-sale securities in the year ended March 31, 2016 and the related gains and losses amounted to ¥848 million, ¥71 million and ¥81 million, respectively. 86 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 87 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 6 Derivative transactions Interest rate-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yen (1) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2016 to which hedge account2016 Amount of principal ing is not applied. Contract amount due over one year Fair value Outstanding positions, for which gains and losses were recognized in the consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2016, were Interest rate swap transactions: as follows: Receive variable rate in Euro, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥3,831 ¥ — ¥ (30) Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥3,831 ¥3,831 ¥(129) Currency-related derivatives Millions of yen 2016 Interest rate-related derivatives: Special method Millions of yen Amount of principal Recognized gain Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) 2016 Foreign currency swap transactions: Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value U.S. dollars received for Euro ¥ 3,831 ¥ 3,831 ¥ (136) ¥ (136) Interest rate swap transactions: U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen ¥12,350 ¥12,350 ¥5,499 ¥5,499 Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen ¥97,650 ¥77,650 ¥— Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥ 6,801 ¥ 914 ¥ (183) ¥ (183) Sell: Euro ¥ 1,851 ¥ — ¥ 22 ¥ 22 (3) The fair value of foreign currency forward contract transactions is based on the year-end forward rate. The fair value of foreign currency swap Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 465 ¥ 145 ¥ (6) ¥ (6) transactions and interest rate swap transactions is based on the prices presented by the counterpart financial institutions. Buy: U.S. dollars ¥ 2,427 ¥ — ¥ (98) ¥ (98) Buy: Euro ¥ 79 ¥ — ¥ 1 ¥ 1 (4) Interest rate swaps to which special methods have been applied are included in long-term loans payable. Therefore, the fair value of interest rate Buy: Renminbi ¥ 8 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 swaps is included in the fair value of the hedged long-term loans payable. Buy: British pounds ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Thai bahts ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 (5) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2017 to which hedge accountBuy: Japanese yen ¥ 1,760 ¥ — ¥ 11 ¥ 11 ing is not applied. Outstanding positions, for which gains and losses were recognized in the consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2017, were (2) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2016 to which hedge accountas follows: ing is applied. Currency-related derivatives Millions of yen Currency-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yens 2017 2016 Amount of principal Recognized gain Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Foreign currency swap transactions: Foreign currency forward contract transactions: U.S. dollars received for Euro ¥ 3,594 ¥ 3,594 ¥ 97 ¥ 97 Sell: U.S. dollars ¥21,985 ¥7,889 ¥ (557) U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen ¥77,164 ¥64,814 ¥4,958 ¥4,958 Sell: Euro ¥ 824 ¥ — ¥ 5 Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: Renminbi ¥ 13 ¥ — ¥ 0 Sell: U.S. dollars ¥ 3,366 ¥ — ¥ (28) ¥ (28) Sell: Thai bahts ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 Sell: Euro ¥ 1,608 ¥ — ¥ 7 ¥ 7 Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 2,093 ¥1,317 ¥ (20) Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 490 ¥ — ¥ (3) ¥ (3) Buy: U.S. dollars ¥24,354 ¥ — ¥(1,083) Sell: Thai bahts ¥ 3 ¥ — ¥ (0) ¥ (0) Buy: Euro ¥ 91 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: U.S. dollars ¥ 3,176 ¥ — ¥ (12) ¥ (12) Buy: British pounds ¥ 4 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: Euro ¥ 189 ¥ — ¥ (1) ¥ (1) Buy: Thai bahts ¥ 1 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: British pounds ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Renminbi ¥ 56 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: Thai bahts ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Japanese yen ¥ 1,821 ¥ — ¥ (8) ¥ (8) 88 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 89 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Interest rate-related derivatives: Principle-based method 2017 Millions of yen Amount of principal Recognized gain 2017 Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) Amount of principal Foreign currency swap transactions: Contract amount due over one year Fair value U.S. dollars received for Euro $ 32,035 $ 32,035 $ 865 $ 865 Interest rate swap transactions: U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen $687,797 $577,716 $44,193 $44,193 Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥3,594 ¥3,594 ¥(69) Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Thousands of U.S. dollars Sell: U.S. dollars $ 30,003 $ — $ (250) $ (250) 2017 Sell: Euro $ 14,333 $ — $ 62 $ 62 Amount of principal Sell: Japanese yen $ 4,368 $ — $ (27) $ (27) Contract amount due over one year Fair value Sell: Thai bahts $ 27 $ — $ (0) $ (0) Interest rate swap transactions: Buy: U.S. dollars $ 28,309 $ — $ (107) $ (107) Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro $32,035 $32,035 $(615) Buy: Euro $ 1,685 $ — $ (9) $ (9) Buy: British pounds $ 0 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Interest rate-related derivatives: Special method Buy: Thai bahts $ 0 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Millions of yen Buy: Japanese yen $ 16,231 $ — $ (71) $ (71) 2017 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value (6) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2017 to which hedge accountInterest rate swap transactions: ing is applied. Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen ¥77,650 ¥50,000 ¥— Currency-related derivatives: Principle-based method Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen 2017 2017 Amount of principal Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen $692,129 $445,673 $— Sell: U.S. dollars ¥21,944 ¥11,824 ¥(333) Sell: Euro ¥ 751 ¥ — ¥ (1) Sell: Renminbi ¥ 15 ¥ — ¥ (0) (7) The fair value of foreign currency forward contract transactions is based on the year-end forward rate. The fair value of foreign currency swap Sell: Thai bahts ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 transactions and interest rate swap transactions is based on the prices presented by the counterpart financial institutions. Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 3,977 ¥ 2,617 ¥ 20 Buy: U.S. dollars ¥12,030 ¥ — ¥ 22 (8) Interest rate swaps to which special methods have been applied are included in long-term loans payable. Therefore, the fair value of interest rate Buy: Euro ¥ 27 ¥ — ¥ 0 swaps is included in the fair value of the hedged long-term loans payable. Buy: British pounds ¥ 1 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: Thai bahts Buy: Renminbi ¥ — ¥ 47 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ (0) Note 7 Inventories Inventories at March 31, 2016 and 2017 consisted of the following: Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value 2016 2017 2017 Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Merchandise and finished goods ¥ 85,965 ¥ 84,272 $ 751,163 Sell: U.S. dollars $195,597 $105,393 $(2,968) Work in process 7,739 8,980 80,043 Sell: Euro $ 6,694 $ — $ (9) Raw materials 21,527 23,759 211,766 Sell: Renminbi $ 134 $ — $ (0) Supplies 5,212 5,301 47,250 Sell: Thai bahts $ 0 $ — $ 0 Total ¥120,443 ¥122,312 $1,090,222 Sell: Japanese yen $ 35,449 $ 23,326 $ 178 Buy: U.S. dollars $107,229 $ — $ 196 Buy: Euro $ 241 $ — $ 0 Note 8 Loans payable Buy: British pounds $ 9 $ — $ 0 Short-term loans payable were represented by bank overdrafts and short-term notes with average annual interest rates of approximately 1.3% and Buy: Thai bahts $ — $ — $ — 1.7% in 2016 and 2017, respectively. Buy: Renminbi $ 419 $ — $ (0) 90 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 91 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Long-term loans payable at March 31, 2016 and 2017 consisted of the following: (c) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year of the companies to which the simplified method is applied Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen 2016 2017 2017 2016 Unsecured: Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥1,168 Banks and insurance companies at 0.0–0.7%, maturing serially through 2027 ¥148,659 ¥161,750 $1,441,750 Retirement benefit costs 420 0.7% bonds, due 2019 15,000 15,000 133,702 Benefits paid (111) Zero coupon convertible bonds, due 2018 20,067 20,042 178,643 Contributions paid by the employer (267) Zero coupon convertible bonds, due 2021 20,081 20,067 178,866 Other 194 Loans denominated in foreign currencies (principally U.S. dollars) at 0.0–2.6%, Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥1,404 maturing serially through 2027 42,480 100,029 891,604 Lease obligations at 7.5%, maturing serially through 2047 1,483 1,260 11,231 (d) Adjustments to reconcile projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets at end of year with the difference between net defined 247,770 318,148 2,835,796 benefit liability and net defined benefit asset recognized in the consolidated balance sheets Less amounts due within one year 27,800 51,594 459,880 Total ¥219,970 ¥266,554 $2,375,916 Millions of yen 2016 Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 71,386 The aggregate annual maturities of long-term loans payable at March 31, 2017, were as follows: Plan assets (74,499) Thousands of (3,113) Year ending March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 1,000 2018 ¥ 51,594 $ 459,880 Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2016 ¥ (2,113) 2019 35,818 319,262 Liability for retirement benefits ¥ 30,440 2020 21,418 190,908 Asset for retirement benefits (32,553) 2021 29,124 259,595 Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2016 ¥ (2,113) 2022 and thereafter 180,064 1,604,992 Note: This calculation includes benefits of companies to which the simplified valuation method is applied. Note 9 Employees’ retirement benefits (e) Severance and retirement benefits costs (1) Funded contributory pension plan as of March 31, 2016 Millions of yen (a) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) 2016 Millions of yen Service cost ¥ 2,530 2016 Interest cost 437 Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥72,021 Expected return on plan assets (627) Service cost 2,530 Net actuarial loss amortization (1,220) Interest cost 437 Past service costs amortization 314 Actuarial loss (gain) 821 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, based on the simplified method 420 Benefits paid (6,926) Other (Extra retirement payments, etc.) 1,162 Other (153) Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 ¥ 3,016 Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥68,730 (f) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (b) Fair value of plan assets at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Components of remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were as follows: Millions of yen 2016 Millions of yen Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥77,365 2016 Expected return on plan assets 627 Past service costs ¥ 314 Actuarial loss (gain) (1,544) Actuarial gains and losses (3,573) Contributions paid by the employer 560 Total balance at March 31, 2016 ¥(3,259) Benefits paid (4,745) Other (17) Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥72,246 92 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 93 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (g) Accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans (4) Funded contributory pension plan as of March 31, 2017 Components of accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof (a) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen 2017 2017 2016 Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥68,730 $612,621 Past service costs that are yet to be recognized ¥ — Service cost 2,291 20,421 Actuarial gains and losses that are yet to be recognized (1,446) Interest cost 393 3,503 Total balance at March 31, 2016 ¥(1,446) Actuarial loss (gain) 778 6,935 Benefits paid (5,886) (52,465) (h) Composition of plan assets Change of scope of consolidation 6,439 57,394 The composition of plan assets was as follows: Loss on transition to a defined contribution pension plan (8,182) (72,930) Other (625) (5,571) 2016 Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥68,938 $569,908 Equity securities 17% Debt securities 33% General accounts 18% (b) Fair value of plan assets at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Other 32% Thousands of Total 100% Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 2017 Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥72,246 $643,961 (i) Determination of long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Expected return on plan assets 409 3,646 The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by considering the current and projected future allocation of plan assets Actuarial loss (gain) 1,755 15,643 and present and future estimates for long-term investment returns calculated based on the diverse range of assets comprising plan assets. Contributions paid by the employer 381 3,396 Benefits paid (3,983) (35,502) (j) Actuarial assumptions Change of scope of consolidation 4,529 40,369 Actuarial assumptions used at March 31, 2016 were as follows: Loss on transition to a defined contribution pension plan (7,049) (62,831) Other (270) (2,407) 2016 Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥68,018 $606,275 Discount rate (funded contributory pension plan) Mainly 0.1% Debt securities (lump-sum benefit plan) Mainly 0.8% Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Mainly 0.7% (c) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year of the companies to which the simplified method is applied Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (2) Defined contribution pension plans as of March 31, 2016 2017 2017 Contributions to the defined contribution pension plans of the Companies totaled ¥2,357 million. Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥1,404 $12,514 Retirement benefit costs 334 2,977 (3) Multi-employer pension plans as of March 31, 2016 Benefits paid (81) (722) The Teijin Group’s contributions to multi-employer pension plans, for which contributions are negotiated, as well as contributions to defined Contributions paid by the employer (127) (1,132) contribution plans, totaled ¥1,858 million. Other (10) (89) The funded status of the multiemployer contributory funded pension plans at December 31, 2015 (based on information available as of March Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥1,520 $13,548 31, 2016), for which contributions are recorded as net periodic retirement benefit costs by the Companies, is as follows: Millions of yen 2016 Fair value of plan assets ¥ 2,723,713 Benefit obligation in the calculation of pension financing (2,729,715) Difference ¥ (6,002) Companies’ contribution percentage for multiemployer contributory funded pension plans* 4.0% * This percentage shows the Companies’ portion of the total estimated annual contribution to the plans, which is not necessarily equal to the actual percentage of the Companies’ portion against the funded status in the above table. 94 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 95 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Adjustments to reconcile projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets at end of year with the difference between net defined (h) Composition of plan assets benefit liability and net defined benefit asset recognized in the consolidated balance sheets The composition of plan assets was as follows: Thousands of 2017 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 2017 Equity securities 23% Debt securities 31% Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 67,013 $ 597,317 General accounts 15% Plan assets (70,049) (624,378) Other 31% (3,036) (27,061) Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 475 4,234 Total 100% Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2017 ¥ (2,561) $ (22,827) Liability for retirement benefits ¥ 35,428 $ 315,786 (i) Determination of long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Asset for retirement benefits (37,988) (338,604) The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by considering the current and projected future allocation of plan assets Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2017 ¥ (2,560) $ (22,818) and present and future estimates for long-term investment returns calculated based on the diverse range of assets comprising plan assets. Note: This calculation includes benefits of companies to which the simplified valuation method is applied. (j) Actuarial assumptions Actuarial assumptions used at March 31, 2017 were as follows: (e) Severance and retirement benefits costs Thousands of 2017 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Discount rate (funded contributory pension plan) Mainly 0.1% 2017 2017 Debt securities (lump-sum benefit plan) Mainly 0.8% Service cost ¥ 2,291 $ 20,421 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Mainly 0.7% Interest cost 393 3,503 Expected return on plan assets (409) (3,646) Net actuarial loss amortization (1,500) (13,370) (5) Defined contribution pension plans as of March 31, 2017 Past service costs amortization 4 36 Contributions to the defined contribution pension plans of the Companies totaled ¥2,496 million ($22,248 thousand). Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, based on the simplified method 334 2,977 (6) Multi-employer pension plans as of March 31, 2017 Gain on transition to a defined contribution pension plan (193) (1,720) The Teijin Group’s contributions to multi-employer pension plans, for which contributions are negotiated, as well as contributions to defined Other (Extra retirement payments, etc.) 1,445 12,879 contribution plans, totaled ¥1,697 million ($15,126 thousand). Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 ¥ 2,365 $ 21,080 The funded status of the multi-employer contributory funded pension plans at December 31, 2016 (based on information available as of March 31, 2017), for which contributions are recorded as net periodic retirement benefit costs by the Companies, is as follows: (f) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Thousands of Components of remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 2017 as follows: Thousands of Fair value of plan assets ¥ 2,863,939 $ 25,527,578 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Benefit obligation in the calculation of pension financing (2,849,804) (25,401,586) 2017 2017 Past service costs ¥ (69) $ (615) Difference ¥ 14,135 $ 125,992 Actuarial gains and losses (146) (1,301) Companies’ contribution percentage for multiemployer contributory funded pension plans* 3.7% Total balance at March 31, 2017 ¥(215) $(1,916) * This percentage shows the Companies’ portion of the total estimated annual contribution to the plans, which is not necessarily equal to the actual percentage of the Companies’ portion against the funded status in the above table. (g) Accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans Components of accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof Note 10 Net assets were as follows: Under Japanese laws and regulations, the entire amount of the issue the dividend and excess, if any, of 25% of common stock over the Thousands of price of shares is required to be accounted for as common stock, total of additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve must be Millions of yen U.S. dollars although a company may, by resolution of its Board of Directors, set aside as additional paid-in capital or legal earnings reserve. Addi2017 2017 account for an amount not exceeding one-half of the issue price of the tional paid-in capital is included in capital surplus and legal earnings Past service costs that are yet to be recognized ¥ (69) $ (615) new shares as additional paid-in capital. reserve is included in retained earnings in the accompanying consoliActuarial gains and losses that are yet to be recognized (1,661) (14,805) Under the Japanese Corporate Law, in cases where dividend distridated balance sheets. Total balance at March 31, 2017 ¥(1,730) $(15,420) bution of surplus is made, the smaller of an amount equal to 10% of Legal earnings reserve and additional paid-in capital may be used to 96 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 97 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements eliminate or reduce a deficit or may be capitalized by a resolution of the The maximum amount that the Company can distribute as dividends is Note 12 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income shareholders’ meeting. All additional paid-in capital and all legal earncalculated based on the unconsolidated financial statements of the ings reserve may be transferred to other capital surplus and retained Company in accordance with Japanese laws and regulations. Components of other comprehensive income for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 consisted of the following: earnings, respectively, which are potentially available for dividends. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2017 2017 At the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 9, 2017, appropriations of retained earnings for year-end dividends applicable to the year ended Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities: March 31, 2017 were duly approved as follows: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥(10,420) ¥ 6,070 $ 54,105 Thousands of Reclassification adjustments 25 (49) (437) Millions of yen U.S. dollars Subtotal, before tax (10,395) 6,021 53,668 Cash dividends: ¥30.00 ($0.27) per share ¥5,902 $52,607 Tax (expense) or benefit 3,912 (1,841) (16,410) Subtotal, net of tax (6,483) 4,180 37,258 Note 11 Impairment loss Deferred gains (losses) on hedges: The Companies accounted for impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2016 as follows: Increase (decrease) during the year 4,196 718 6,400 Reclassification adjustments (2,674) 718 6,400 Impairment loss Subtotal, before tax 1,522 1,436 12,800 Location Purpose of use Type of assets Millions of yen Tax (expense) or benefit (256) (409) (3,646) Utsunomiya City in Tochigi Prefecture Subtotal, net of tax 1,266 1,027 9,154 and others Performance Polymer Products facilities Machinery, etc. ¥ 4,801 California, U.S.A. Pharmaceuticals and home healthcare business Goodwill, etc. 1,295 Others — — 1,469 Foreign currency translation adjustments: Total ¥ 7,565 Increase (decrease) during the year (6,059) (7,797) (69,498) Reclassification adjustments 215 — — Subtotal, before tax (5,844) (7,797) (69,498) The Companies set up asset groupings by business unit for which the profit or loss is continually monitored. Idle assets, which are not being Tax (expense) or benefit (212) 95 847 used for business, are separately treated. Subtotal, net of tax (6,056) (7,702) (68,651) Among the assets used for business purposes, certain production facilities were devalued to the recoverable amount. The difference between carrying amounts and recoverable amounts was recorded as “Impairment loss” amounting to ¥7,565 million. The recoverable amount was meaRemeasurements of defined benefit plans: sured at net sale value or value in use. Net sale value is calculated based on the current sales price of the asset and other factors. Value in use is Increase (decrease) during the year (2,396) 966 8,610 calculated based on the discounted future cash flows with discount rates of 5–15%. Reclassification adjustments (864) (1,181) (10,526) The Companies accounted for impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2017 as follows: Subtotal, before tax (3,260) (215) (1,916) Tax (expense) or benefit 1,185 (90) (803) Impairment loss Subtotal, net of tax (2,075) (305) (2,719) Thousands of Location Purpose of use Type of assets Millions of yen U.S. dollars Ibaraki City in Osaka Prefecture Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using the equity method: and others R&D facilities, etc. Building, etc. ¥ 449 $ 4,002 Increase (decrease) during the year (194) (2,362) (21,054) Others — — 929 8,281 Reclassification adjustments 120 56 500 Total ¥1,378 $12,283 Subtotal (74) (2,306) (20,554) Total other comprehensive income ¥(13,422) ¥(5,106) $(45,512) ) The Companies set up asset groupings by business unit for which “Impairment loss” amounting to ¥1,378 million ($12,283 thousand). the profit or loss is continually monitored. Idle assets, which are not The recoverable amount was measured at net sale value or value in being used for business, are separately treated. use. Net sale value is calculated based on the current sales price of Among the assets used for business purposes, certain production the asset and other factors. Value in use is calculated based on the facilities were devalued to the recoverable amount. The difference discounted future cash flows with discount rates of 5–15%. between carrying amounts and recoverable amounts was recorded as 98 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 99 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 13 Income taxes Note 14 Leases The Company is subject to a number of taxes based on income, summarizes the significant differences between the Company’s effecOperating leases as lessee which, in the aggregate, indicate a statutory rate in Japan of approxitive tax rate and the actual income tax rate for financial statement Future minimum lease payments for the remaining lease periods as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as follows. mately 30.7% for the year ended March 31, 2017. The following table purposes for the year ended March 31, 2016 and 2017. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2017 2016 2017 2017 Effective tax rate 32.9 % 30.7 % Due within one year ¥200 ¥ 787 $ 7,015 Non-deductible expenses 0.5 4.9 Due over one year 702 1,642 14,636 Per capita inhabitants’ taxes 0.4 0.5 Total ¥902 ¥2,429 $21,651 Difference in statutory tax rate between Japan and other countries (7.0) (4.2) Equity in earnings of affiliates 2.1 (1.8) Amortization of goodwill 0.9 1.0 Note 15 Stock option plans Changes in valuation allowance 9.0 (76.7) Information on stock option plans at March 31, 2017 is as shown below. Refund of income taxes (6.2) (9.0) Increase (decrease) in statutory tax rate 2.0 (0.9) Other 1.3 4.0 Teijin Limited Actual income tax rate 35.9 % (51.5)% The account and the amounts related to stock options in the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Revisions to the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities in the current fiscal Account 2016 2017 2017 due to changes in the tax rates of the Japanese Corporation Tax year changed from the previous year. Selling, general and administrative expenses ¥99 ¥112 $998 Since amendments to the Japanese tax regulations were enacted into As a result, the amounts of the deferred tax assets (after deducting law on November 18, 2016, the statutory tax rate utilized for the the deferred tax liabilities) increased by ¥298 million ($2,656 thousand). The following tables summarize the contents of stock options as of March 31, 2017. Significant components of the Companies’ deferred tax assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as follows: Company name Teijin Limited Thousands of Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 54 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Class and number of stock Common Stock: 29,200 2016 2017 2017 Date of issue July 10, 2006 Deferred tax assets: Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Excess bonuses accrued ¥ 4,530 ¥ 4,283 $ 38,176 Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Provision for loss on guarantees 143 134 1,194 Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 10, 2006 to July 9, 2026 Write-down of investment securities 1,379 1,533 13,664 Retirement benefits 6,699 5,290 47,152 Company name Teijin Limited Accumulated impairment loss 12,494 9,108 81,184 Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 55 Net operating loss carry forwards 44,393 45,657 406,961 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 41,400 Other 21,456 31,428 280,133 Date of issue July 5, 2007 Total 91,094 97,433 868,464 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Valuation allowance (62,402) (38,011) (338,809) Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Total deferred tax assets 28,692 59,422 529,655 Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 5, 2007 to July 4, 2027 Offset with deferred tax liabilities (16,157) (33,393) (297,647) Company name Teijin Limited Net deferred tax assets ¥ 12,535 ¥ 26,029 $ 232,008 Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 57 Deferred tax liabilities: Class and number of stock Common Stock: 65,600 Adjustments to fixed assets based on Corporate Tax Law ¥ (4,469) ¥ (4,303) $ (38,355) Date of issue July 7, 2008 Accelerated depreciation of foreign subsidiaries’ fixed assets (980) (807) (7,193) Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Tax effect of foreign subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings (3,085) (4,225) (37,659) Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Adjustment of carrying amount based on fair value (4,236) (21,920) (195,383) Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 7, 2008 to July 6, 2028 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (6,732) (8,616) (76,798) Other (2,347) (1,947) (17,355) Total deferred tax liabilities (21,849) (41,818) (372,743) Offset with deferred tax assets 16,157 33,393 297,647 Net deferred tax liabilities ¥ (5,692) ¥ (8,425) $ (75,096) 100 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 101 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Company name Teijin Limited Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 57 Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 29 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 84,000 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 54,800 Date of issue July 9, 2009 Date of issue March 16, 2016 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 9, 2009 to July 8, 2029 Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 16, 2016 to March 15, 2036 Company name Teijin Limited Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 31 Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 55 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 57,400 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 69,800 Date of issue March 17, 2017 Date of issue July 9, 2010 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 17, 2017 to March 16, 2037 Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 9, 2010 to July 8, 2030 Company name Teijin Limited The following tables summarize the numbers and movements of stock options as of March 31, 2017. Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 47 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 147,400 Non-exercisable stock options Date of issue March 12, 2012 Shares Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Company name Teijin Limited Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 12, 2012 to March 11, 2032 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2016 — — — — — — — — — — — Stock options granted — — — — — — — — — — 57,400 Company name Teijin Limited Forfeitures — — — — — — — — — — — Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 38 Conversion to exercisable stock options — — — — — — — — — — 57,400 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 139,600 Date of issue March 15, 2013 Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2017 — — — — — — — — — — — Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Exercisable stock options Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 15, 2013 to March 14, 2033 Shares Company name Teijin Limited Company name Teijin Limited 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 40 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2016 3,800 6,400 16,600 34,600 34,400 104,200 114,400 117,000 75,800 54,800 — Class and number of stock Common Stock: 123,600 Conversion from nonexercisable stock Date of issue March 14, 2014 options — — — — — — — — — — 57,400 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Stock options exercised 1,400 2,600 7,400 15,200 9,200 27,600 9,200 13,000 — — — Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Forfeitures — — — — — — — — — — — Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 14, 2014 to March 13, 2034 Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2017 2,400 3,800 9,200 19,400 25,200 76,600 105,200 104,000 75,800 54,800 57,400 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 32 The following table summarizes value information of stock options as of March 31, 2017. Class and number of stock Common Stock: 75,800 Date of issue March 18, 2015 Yen Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Company name Teijin Limited Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 18, 2015 to March 17, 2035 Paid-in value ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise 1,916 1,912 1,941 1,958 1,958 1,980 2,016 2,002 — — — Fair value at the date of grant 3,315 3,050 1,535 1,265 1,305 1,225 980 1,140 1,925 1,800 1,955 102 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 103 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The method of estimation for the fair value of stock options granted in the year ended March 31, 2017 is as follows: The following tables summarize the number and movements of stock options as of March 31 2017. Method of valuation Black-Scholes Model Non-exercisable stock options Volatility 30% Shares Expected remaining period 5.5 years Company name Infocom Corporation Expected dividend ¥45.00 per share 2014 2015 2016 2017 Interest rate without any risks (0.12%) Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2016 — — — — Stock options granted — — — 18,400 Forfeitures — — — — Infocom Corporation Conversion to exercisable stock options — — — 18,400 The account and the amounts related to stock options in the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as follows: Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2017 — — — — Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Account 2016 2017 2017 Exercisable stock options Shares Selling, general and administrative expenses ¥30 ¥27 $241 Company name Infocom Corporation 2014 2015 2016 2017 The following tables summarize the contents of stock options as of March 31, 2017. Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2016 36,200 23,000 26,800 — Conversion from nonexercisable stock options — — — 18,400 Company name Infocom Corporation Stock options exercised 3,000 — — — Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 5 Forfeitures — — — — Class and number of stock Common Stock: 36,200 Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2017 33,200 23,000 26,800 18,400 Date of issue May 31, 2013 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions The following table summarizes value information of stock options as of March 31, 2017. Period subscription rights are to be exercised From June 1, 2013 to May 31, 2043 Yen Company name Infocom Corporation Company name Infocom Corporation 2014 2015 2016 2017 Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 6 Paid-in value ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 23,000 Date of issue June 6, 2014 Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise 1,660 — — — Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Fair value at the date of grant 143,839 144,800 227,000 300,000 Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From June 7, 2014 to June 6, 2044 The method of estimation for the fair value of stock options granted in the year ended March 31, 2017 is as follows: Company name Infocom Corporation Method of valuation Black-Scholes Model Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 7 Volatility 42.4% Class and number of stock Common Stock: 26,800 Expected remaining period 7.6 years Date of issue June 9, 2015 Expected dividend rate 1.13% Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Interest rate without any risks (0.26%) Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From June 10, 2015 to June 9, 2045 Note 16 Segment information Company name Infocom Corporation (1) Reportable operating segment information Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 8 The Company’s reportable operating segments are components of an entity for which separate financial information is available and evaluated Class and number of stock Common Stock: 18,400 regularly by its chief decision-making authority in determining the allocation of management resources and in assessing performance. Up to and Date of issue June 13, 2016 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions including the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company has divided its operations into business groups based on the type of product, nature of Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions business and services provided. The business groups formulate product and service strategies in a comprehensive manner in Japan and overPeriod subscription rights are to be exercised From June 14, 2016 to June 13, 2046 seas. Accordingly, the Company divided its operations into four reportable operating segments on the same basis as applied internally: Advanced Fibers and Composites; Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products; Healthcare; and Trading and Retail. 104 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 105 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The description of each segment is as follows: Millions of yen 2017 Electronics Advanced Fibers and Composites: Materials and Production and sales of aramid fibers, carbon fibers, polyester fibers and composites for industrial applications Advanced Performance Fibers and Polymer Trading and Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products: Composites Products Healthcare Retail Subtotal Others Total Production and sales of films and resins for various industrial applications Sales: Healthcare: 1) External customers ¥136,760 ¥134,422 ¥147,537 ¥259,584 ¥678,303 ¥62,989 ¥741,292 Production and sales of prescription and non-prescription drugs and production, sales and rental of home healthcare devices 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 24,211 3,596 — 4,102 31,909 18,325 50,234 Trading and Retail: Total sales 160,971 138,018 147,537 263,686 710,212 81,314 791,526 Trading and retail of polyester filaments, other fibers and polymer products Segment income 13,847 18,481 27,557 6,704 66,589 5,375 71,964 Segment assets 311,967 140,822 147,351 133,914 734,054 92,395 826,449 Other items: (2) Accounting methods used to calculate segment sales, segment income, segment assets and other items for reportable operating segments Depreciation 14,228 4,067 12,180 2,122 32,597 2,632 35,229 The accounting policies for the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 2. Summary of significant accounting policies. Amortization of goodwill 2,081 — 49 25 2,155 107 2,262 Segment income for reportable operating segments is based on operating income. Amounts for intersegment transactions or transfers are Investments in associates accounted calculated based on market prices or on prices determined using the cost-plus method. for using the equity method 6,895 17,197 2,029 1,522 27,643 10,900 38,543 Increase in tangible and intangible (3) Segment sales, segment income, segment assets and other items for reportable operating segments fixed assets 21,642 3,588 11,677 2,427 39,334 4,274 43,608 Segment information for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 is as shown below: Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen 2017 2016 Electronics Electronics Advanced Materials and Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Fibers and Performance Trading and Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Subtotal Others Total Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Subtotal Others Total Sales: Sales: 1) External customers $1,219,003 $1,198,164 $1,315,064 $2,313,789 $6,046,020 $561,449 $6,607,469 1) External customers ¥133,017 ¥163,699 ¥147,501 ¥270,934 ¥715,151 ¥75,597 ¥790,748 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 215,804 32,053 — 36,563 284,420 163,339 447,759 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 26,458 3,753 — 3,763 33,974 17,220 51,194 Total sales 1,434,807 1,230,217 1,315,064 2,350,352 6,330,440 724,788 7,055,228 Total sales 159,475 167,452 147,501 274,697 749,125 92,817 841,942 Segment income 123,426 164,729 245,628 59,756 593,539 47,909 641,448 Segment income 18,499 22,298 28,802 5,330 74,929 6,488 81,417 Segment assets 2,780,702 1,255,210 1,313,406 1,193,636 6,542,954 823,558 7,366,512 Segment assets 185,915 134,113 144,990 133,580 598,598 92,145 690,743 Other items: Other items: Depreciation 126,821 36,251 108,566 18,914 290,552 23,460 314,012 Depreciation 14,320 4,981 11,524 1,980 32,805 2,413 35,218 Amortization of goodwill 18,548 — 437 223 19,208 954 20,162 Amortization of goodwill 1,429 — 364 25 1,818 113 1,931 Investments in associates accounted Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 61,458 153,285 18,085 13,567 246,395 97,156 343,551 for using the equity method 4,432 21,131 1,157 2,027 28,747 10,583 39,330 Increase in tangible and intangible Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 192,905 31,981 104,082 21,634 350,602 38,096 388,698 fixed assets 12,575 2,505 13,793 2,930 31,803 4,910 36,713 Notes 1. “Others” includes the Company’s IT business and does not qualify as a reportable operating segment. 2. “Depreciation” and “Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets” include long-term prepaid expenses and their amortization. 106 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 107 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Reconciliations of published figures and aggregates of reportable operating segments for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as 2017 shown below: Reportable operating Other items segments Others Adjustment Total Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Depreciation $290,552 $23,460 $16,401 $330,413 Adjustment for net sales 2016 2017 2017 Amortization of goodwill 19,208 954 — 20,162 Reportable operating segments ¥749,125 ¥710,212 $6,330,440 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 246,395 97,156 — 343,551 Others 92,817 81,314 724,788 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 350,602 38,096 23,317 412,015 Elimination of intersegment transactions (51,194) (50,234) (447,759) Net sales ¥790,748 ¥741,292 $6,607,469 (4) Information by geographical segment 1. Net sales by region for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as shown below: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen Adjustment for operating income 2016 2017 2017 2016 Reportable operating segments ¥ 74,929 ¥ 66,589 $ 593,539 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total Others 6,489 5,375 47,909 ¥473,320 ¥116,833 ¥76,362 ¥56,645 ¥67,588 ¥790,748 Elimination of intersegment transactions (257) 189 1,684 Corporate expenses* (14,031) (15,641) (139,415) Millions of yen Operating income ¥ 67,130 ¥ 56,512 $503,717 2017 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total * Corporate expenses are expenses that cannot be allocated to individual reportable operating segments and are primarily related to basic research and head office ¥453,734 ¥93,789 ¥65,985 ¥65,718 ¥62,066 ¥741,292 administration. Thousands of U.S. dollars Reconciliations of published figures and aggregates of reportable operating segments as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as shown below: 2017 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars $4,044,336 $835,984 $588,154 $585,774 $553,221 $6,607,469 Adjustment for assets 2016 2017 2017 Reportable operating segments ¥598,598 ¥734,054 $6,542,954 2. Tangible fixed assets by region as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as shown below: Others 92,145 92,395 823,558 Corporate assets† 175,854 191,642 1,708,191 Millions of yen Adjustment (43,168) (54,038) (481,664) 2016 Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Americas (ex-U.S) Consolidated total Total assets ¥823,429 ¥964,053 $8,593,039 ¥124,030 ¥18,370 ¥31,663 ¥20,602 ¥3,289 ¥5,303 ¥10 ¥203,267 † Corporate assets are assets that cannot be allocated to individual reportable operating segments and are primarily related to investments of the parent company in “Cash and time deposits” and “Investment securities,” etc. Millions of yen 2017 Millions of yen Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Americas (ex-U.S) Consolidated total 2016 Reportable operating ¥130,907 ¥17,020 ¥26,889 ¥23,914 ¥32,817 ¥4.624 ¥5,119 ¥241,290 Other items segments Others Adjustment Total Depreciation ¥32,805 ¥ 2,413 ¥1,745 ¥36,963 Thousands of U.S. dollars Amortization of goodwill 1,818 113 — 1,931 2017 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 28,747 10,583 — 39,330 Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Americas (ex-U.S) Consolidated total Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 31,803 4,910 1,628 38,341 $1,166,833 $151,707 $239,674 $213,156 $292,513 $42,216 $45,627 $2,150,726 Millions of yen (5) Information by major customer 2017 Information for the year ended March 31, 2017 is omitted as no single customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales as Reportable operating Other items segments Others Adjustment Total reported in the consolidated statements of operations. Depreciation ¥32,597 ¥2,632 ¥1,840 ¥37,069 Amortization of goodwill 2,155 107 — 2,262 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 27,643 10,900 — 38,543 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 39,334 4,274 2,616 46,224 108 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 109 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (6) Impairment loss and goodwill by reportable operating segment Note 17 Contingent liabilities Impairment loss by reportable operating segment for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as shown below: At March 31, 2016 and 2017, the Companies were contingently liable as follows: Millions of yen 2016 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Electronics Advanced Materials and 2016 2017 2017 Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated (a) As endorser of notes discounted or endorsed ¥ 1 ¥ 1 $ 9 Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total (b) As guarantors of indebtedness of: Impairment loss ¥500 ¥5,070 ¥1,312 ¥— ¥471 ¥212 ¥7,565 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates ¥5,030 ¥2,107 $18,781 Millions of yen Others 2,356 2,193 19,547 2017 ¥7,386 ¥4,300 $38,328 Electronics (c) As guarantor of accounts receivable negotiated to third parties ¥2,180 ¥1,924 $17,149 Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Impairment loss ¥597 ¥198 ¥— ¥41 ¥45 ¥497 ¥1,378 Note 18 Asset retirement obligations Asset retirement obligations recorded in the consolidated balance sheets Thousands of U.S. dollars (1) Outline of asset retirement obligations 2017 Electronics Recorded asset retirement obligations are expenses such as costs for removal of asbestos from buildings owned by the Company when they Advanced Materials and are demolished and costs for restoration under the lease agreements of real estate in connection with land. Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Impairment loss $5,322 $1,765 $— $365 $401 $4,430 $12,283 (2) Calculation method of asset retirement obligations The Companies estimate that the period of use is mainly from 1 to 10 years, and calculate the obligations using discount rates between 0.3% Goodwill by reportable operating segment as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 is as shown below: and 1.3%. Millions of yen (3) Changes in the total amount of asset retirement obligations 2016 In the year ended March 31, 2017, the estimated amount of obligation was changed as a more precise estimation, based on the Soil ContamiElectronics Advanced Materials and nation Countermeasures Act, for soil cleanup became possible. Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Thousands of Amortization of goodwill ¥1,429 ¥— ¥364 ¥25 ¥112 ¥— ¥1,931 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Balance as of March 31, 2016 6,697 — 98 76 426 — 7,297 2016 2017 2017 Beginning balance ¥ 6,861 ¥ 3,678 $ 32,784 Millions of yen Reconciliation associated with passage of time 79 6 53 2017 Reconciliation associated with changes in accounting estimates (2,397) 764 6,810 Electronics Decrease due to the fulfillment of asset retirement obligations (312) (1,469) (13,094) Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Other (553) (9) (80) Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Ending balance ¥ 3,678 ¥ 2,970 $ 26,473 Amortization of goodwill ¥ 2,081 ¥— ¥49 ¥25 ¥107 ¥— ¥ 2,262 Balance as of March 31, 2017 32,320 — 49 50 319 — 32,738 Note 19 Business combinations Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 Electronics Business combination through acquisition Advanced Materials and (1) Outline of the business combination Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total 1) Name of acquired company and description of business Amortization of goodwill $ 18,548 $— $437 $223 $ 954 $— $ 20,162 Name of acquired company Balance as of March 31, 2017 288,083 — 437 446 2,843 — 291,809 Continental Structural Plastics Holdings Corporation Description of business Design, molding and processing of automotive composite materials and components 110 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 111 FACT DATA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2) Main reason for undertaking the business combination (7) Breakdown of amounts allocated to intangible assets other than goodwill and weighted-average amortization period overall by major type The Company has determined that as a result of this acquisition, it will benefit from Continental Structural Plastics Holdings Corporation’s of asset established sales channels in the North American automotive market, which will enable the combined business to provide a broader range 1) Amount allocated to intangible assets other than goodwill of solutions that meet automakers’ demands for weight reduction and durability, utilizing the Company’s thermoplastic composite technoloCustomer-related assets ¥15,335 million ($136,688 thousand) gies. The Company will be able to focus on establishing a platform for business development in automotive composite products, aiming to Technology-related assets ¥12,504 million ($111,454 thousand) provide a wider range of solutions for automakers. Trademarks ¥ 826 million ($7,363 thousand) 3) Date of business combination January 3, 2017 2) Weighted-average amortization period overall Customer-related assets 11 years 4) Legal form of the business combination Technology-related assets 10 years Share purchase for cash consideration Trademarks 5 years Total 11 years 5) Name of company after the combination No change in the name of the company (8) Estimated amount and calculation methods of the impact of the business combination on the consolidated statements of income for the fiscal year under review, assuming that the business combination had been completed at the beginning of the fiscal year 6) Percentage of voting rights acquired No estimate has been made as it is impractical to calculate an estimated amount. Percentage of voting rights before the acquisition 0% Percentage of voting rights after the acquisition 100% Note 20 Subsequent events 7) Basis for determining the company to be acquired Sale of holdings in subsidiaries Acquired 100% of the voting rights through the purchase of shares for cash consideration On April 27, 2017, the Company signed an agreement to sell its entire holdings in wholly owned entities Braden Partners L.P. (California, U.S.; BP) and Associated Healthcare Systems, Inc. (New York, U.S.; AHS), both providers of home healthcare devices and services held by consolidated (2) Period of financial results of the acquired company included in the consolidated financial statements subsidiary Teijin Holdings USA, Inc. and other entities, to PPS HME LLC, an affiliate of the investment management firm Quadrant Management, Inc. From January 3, 2017 to March 31, 2017 of the U.S. Consequently, consolidated subsidiaries BP and AHS will be excluded from the scope of consolidation from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018. (3) Acquisition cost for the acquired company and breakdown of the type of consideration The approximated amounts of profit and loss with respect to the aforementioned subsidiaries were recorded on the consolidated statements of Consideration for the acquisition Cash ¥85,079 million ($758,347 thousand) income for the year ended March 31, 2017 as follows: Acquisition cost ¥85,079 million ($758,347 thousand) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars BP AHS BP AHS (4) Description and amount of major acquisition-related costs Net sales ¥ 5,987 ¥ 376 $ 53,365 $ 3,351 Advisory expenses ¥ 757 million ($6,747 thousand) Operating loss (4,420) (952) (39,397) (8,486) Ordinary loss (5,214) (965) (46,475) (8,601) (5) Amount of goodwill incurred, reasons for incurring goodwill, amortization method and amortization period Net loss (5,202) (870) (46,368) (7,755) 1) Goodwill incurred ¥29,805 million ($265,665 thousand) 2) Reasons for incurring goodwill The acquisition cost of the acquired company exceeded the net allocated amount of the assets succeeded to and liabilities taken over from Year-end dividends the acquired company, and the difference has been recorded as goodwill. At the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 9, 2017, appropriations of retained earnings for year-end dividends applicable to the year ended 3) Amortization method and amortization period March 31, 2017 were duly approved as follows: Straight-line amortization over 10 years Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars (6) Assets succeeded and liabilities taken over as of the date of the business combination Cash dividends: ¥30.00 ($0.27) per share ¥5,902 $52,607 Current assets ¥20,653 million ($184,089 thousand) Fixed assets ¥65,794 million ($586,452 thousand) Total assets ¥86,447 million ($770,541 thousand) Current liabilities ¥10,556 million ($94,090 thousand) Noncurrent liabilities ¥20,618 million ($183,778 thousand) Total liabilities ¥31,174 million ($277,868 thousand) 112 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 113 FACT DATA FACT DATA Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Assurance Report 114 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 115 FACT DATA Corporate Data As of March 31, 2017 Established June 17, 1918 Head Offices Osaka Head Office Nakanoshima Festival Tower West, 2-4, Nakanoshima 3-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8605, Japan Tel: +81-6-6233-3401 * Relocated in May 2017 Tokyo Head Office Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Tel: +81-3-3506-4529 Fiscal Year-End March 31 Common Stock Authorized 600,000,000 shares Common Stock Issued 196,951,733 shares Paid-in Capital ¥70,817 million Shareholders 85,195 Number of Teijin Group Companies Japan 58 Overseas 111 Total 169 Number of Teijin Group Employees Japan 9,238 (Consolidated) Overseas 10,054 Total 19,292 Stock Exchange Listing Tokyo Stock Code 3401 Stock Transfer Agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Dividends Dividends are usually declared in May and November. Reports Available to Shareholders Corporate Profile and Investors Integrated Report Financial Results Fact Book (web site) Annual Meeting of Shareholders The annual meeting of shareholders is held before the end of June. Independent Public Accountants KPMG AZSA LLC Web Site https://www.teijin.com Teijin’s web site offers a wealth of corporate and product information, including the latest Integrated Report, financial results and corporate news. Investor Relations If you have any questions, please contact: IR Section, Finance & Investor Relations Department, Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Tel: +81-3-3506-4395 Fax: +81-3-5510-7977 E-mail: ir@teijin.co.jp ■ Italicized product names and service names in this report are trademarks or registered trademarks of the Teijin Group in Japan and/or other countries. Where noted, other italicized product names and service names used in this report are protected as the trademarks and/or trade names of other companies. © 2017 Teijin Limited. All Rights Reserved. 116 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2017
