UN Global Compact Communication on Progress FY 2016 Brunnenbachstrasse 1 CH-8340 Hinwil 43 843 61 11 www.belimo.com Communication on Progress FY 2016 Statement of continued support Beiimo is the global market leader in the development, production and marketing of actuator solutions for controlling heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. Actuators, control valves and sensors make up the company's core business. Belimo's aim is to be a trusted partner across the globe for its customers, offering them the added value they expect. Research and market-relevant innovation as well as fast and customized execution are key. Commitment, credibility and reliability characterize the company's behavior. Beiimo delivers more than just products. The company supports its customers with innovative, efficient and energy-optimizing soiutions and brings success to both customers and itseif. Beiimo is ciose to its customers throughout the world, speaks their language and understands them. Everything Beiimo does shall reinforce the customer's conviction that they have chosen the very best. Beiimo is firmly committed to sustainabiiity, as reflected in its values and the code of conduct. This commitment was further strengthened with the signing of the United Nations Global Compact. In doing so, Beiimo has undertaken to adopt, support and implement a range of principles within its sphere of influence from the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. These principles are consistent with the values and the code of conduct of Beiimo. i am pleased to confirm that Beiimo reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This Communication on Progress describes the company's actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into business strategy, culture and daily operations. Beiimo is committed to share this information with its stakeholders using its channels of communication. Page 2 of 5 Communication on Progress FY 2016 Summary of Policy, Actions and Outcomes The table below summarizes the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. More information can be found in the referenced documents which are available for downloading at belimo.com. Principle Policy, Actions and Outcomes Reference HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Belimo's values and code of conduct convey the company's key Businesses should guiding principles and fundamental values. The United Nations support and respect Global Compact principles in the area of human rights, labor the protection of standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption internationally are consistent with the values and the code of conduct of Beiimo. proclaimed human Beiimo is determined to manage its business in compliance with high rights. ethical standards and applicable law. Employees are expected to act accordingly. Thorough introduction programs ensure that new recruits are fully -> Annual Report 2016, familiarized with the company's values and corporate culture. The p. 42 individual employee's long-term ability to internalize and put those values into practice is also part of the annual employee appraisal. Principle 2: More than 80 percent of product manufacturing costs at Beiimo are Business must make incurred by a network of suppliers and partners, whereof the main sure that they are not portion is procured from Europe. So the main risk of human rights complicit in human abuses may be brought into the equation via our suppliers. rights abuses. Beiimo expects its suppliers to make a clear commitment to the company's principles in the form of a binding self-declaration. By signing it the supplier undertakes to comply with Belimo's Code of -> Supplier Declaration Conduct Conduct in the working environment which addresses corruption, human rights, child labor, health and safety, and environmental protection. In 2012 the code of conduct for suppliers was implemented and it has been signed by more than hundred suppliers which equates to around 90 percent of the procurement volume. Beiimo usually conducts about 30 audits per year, both new and existing suppliers are audited on site. Among other audit tasks compliance the code of conduct is assessed. In addition main suppliers are visited by Beiimo employees regularly for business reasons, usually at least once a year. In FY 2016 no cases of violation have been registered. LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: Beiimo recognizes employees' freedom of association. Members of -> Code of Conduct Businesses should employee organizations or unions are neither favored nor uphold the freedom discriminated. of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Page 3 of 5 Communication on Progress 2016 Principle 4: The Beiimo code of conduct and the supplier declaration excludes -> Code of Conduct The elimination of all implicitly all forms of forced and compulsory labor. forms of forced and In FY no cases of violation have been registered. compulsory labor. Principle 5: The Beiimo code of conduct and the supplier declaration prohibits -> Code of Conduct The effective child labor. No employees are hired who have not yet reached the abolition of child minimum age of 15 years. labor. In FY no cases of violation have been registered. Principle 6: Beiimo promotes equal opportunities and the equal treatment of its -> Code of Conduct Eliminate employees regardless the color of their skin, race, nationality, discrimination with social origin, disability, sexual orientation, political or religious respect to conviction, gender or age. An employment is purely based on employment and professional knowledge and achievement. occupation. Every three years a worldwide survey is conducted giving each employee the opportunity to respond on various topics. The results are analyzed and measures derived worldwide in individual teams. A new survey is planned for The average length of service in Hinwil is eight years, a result of Belimo's efforts to offer its employees long-term prospects. Another integral part of Belimo's corporate culture is its longstanding -> Annual Report 2016, partnership with the organizations Sonnhalde , Switzerland, p. 41 Switzerland, and Ability Beyond , USA. These organizations provide assistance at a challenging time or support individuals disabilities, illness and often, accompanying physical challenges. Through their employment programs jobs are provided by Beiimo to more than people. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Environmental protection is embodied in the values, the code of Businesses should conduct and the supplier declaration. support a The company strives to use resources sparingly and to avoid the use precautionary -> Code of Conduct of materials that place an unnecessary strain on the environment. approach to Beiimo is mindful of energy consumption; environmental protection is environmental taken into account in compliance with legal and international challenges. standards. The Hinwil and U.S. sites adhere to the international environmental -> Annual Report 2016, p. 38 management system ISO 14001. As part of Belimo's internal management reporting environmental performance metrics for water, electricity, heating, and waste used in Danbury and Hinwil are communicated to the Group Executive Committee. The company has been a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) supporter since and has responded to the questionnaires since 2009. Page 4 of 5 Communication on Progress FY MO Principle 8: The premises in Hinwil are continually reviewed and adapted in -> Annual Report 2016, Businesses should regard to comfort and energy efficiency. A monitoring tool collects p. 39 undertake initiatives and tracks building-related environmental performance metrics to promote greater providing the basis for optimization measures. environmental The logistics expansion in Hinwil was built to meet the latest energy responsibility. efficiency criteria. All storage and retrieval equipment in the automated warehouse and all equipment elevators feature energy recovery systems. The conveyors are individually controlled and stop when not in use. The logistics expansion was additionally insulated so as to minimize temperature fluctuations caused by the cold ground water. In addition, seven charging points for electric cars are available at the main building for both visitors and employees. The new production, logistics and administration building in Danbury and the Sparks site have been built in compliance with LEED gold standards for sustainable construction. Principle 9: Beiimo strives to design products that contribute to increased energy -> Mission Businesses should efficiency in its customer's applications. encourage the According to the U.S. Green Building Council buildings in the United development and States are responsible for 39% of emissions, and 4 0 % of diffusion of energy consumption. Beiimo solutions enable the optimized environmentally operation of HVAC plants by offering the following features: friendly technologies. • Minimized power consumption by Beiimo actuators for all applications • Preventing circulation losses thanks to seal-tight characterized control valve technology in water applications Increasing plant efficiency by making smart use of actuator and sensor technology For success stories about Belimo's innovative solutions reference is made to the annual report or www.belimo.com. Beiimo actively participates to shape these changes and constantly further develops building technology. The company is an active -> Annual Report member of numerous industry associations including REHVA p. 38 (Federation of European Heating, and Air Conditioning Associations) and ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers). These organizations are geared toward developing sustainable, energy-efficient building technology as well as corresponding standards. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Corruption and bribery of any kind are not tolerated, nor Is It -> Code of Conduct Businesses should permissible to become involved in such acts in any way, including work against any offers of illegal payments or similar gifts, for the purpose corruption in all its influencing the decision making. forms, including In the reporting year Beiimo has not been involved in any legal extortion and bribery. cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Page 5 of 5
