2016 ANNUAL REPORT Nordax Group AB (publ) CONTENTS Nordax in brief 3 CEO comments  4 Targets and outcome 6 Business model  8 Strategy 9 Priorities 14 Financial performance 15 Core values 19 Sustainability 20 Risk management  28 Nordax shares 30 Board of Directors’ Report 33 Chairman’s comments 48 Corporate Governance Report 49 Board 61 Senior Management 64 Financial reports and notes 66 Proposed disposition of profits 103 Independent Auditor’s report 104 Bridge statutory to adjusted accounts 107 Definitions 108 Key concepts 109 GRI-index 110 Staff Statistics 113 Annual General Meeting 114 Financial calendar 114 Contacts 114 2 NORDAX IN BRIEF Niche bank focused on sustainable growth Nordax is a leading niche bank in NorthNORDAX STRENGTHS ern Europe, offering savings and loans l Focused business model that delivers to nearly 150,000 customers in Sweden, steady and sound organic growth Norway, Finland and Germany. l Geographically diversified lending with growth potential in all markets Nordax has around 200 employees, all of whom l Management with extensive experience, from work from a central office in Stockholm. Our thorthe industry and different economic cycles ough, sound and data-driven credit assessment l Gradual expansion of the business to new process is our core competence. Our customers geographical markets are financially stable. The typical loan customer l Expertise in data-driven credit assessment is around 50 years old and has an income in line l Effective marketing main part of lending is with or higher than the average in each country. distributed through own channels Nordax’s business model is focused on unsecured l Stable credit quality based on responsible personal loans with diversification in terms of lending and a financially stable customer group geographical markets and funding sources. l Diversified funding and robust liquidity l Solid capital generation and capital position l Central, scalable platform with increasing efficiency l Robust profitability to finance growth as well as dividend ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT MSEK MSEK 2016 2015 ∆% Net profit 446 195 129 510 Operating profit 573 250 129 Adjusted operating profit 2 510 392 30 392 358 Lending to the general public 12,794 10,841 18 New lending 4,636 4,070 14 275 Earnings per share, SEK 4.02 1.76 128 183 Adjusted earnings 2 per share, SEK 3.58 2.76 30 Dividend per share, SEK 1.60 1 0.50 Return on equity, % 23.2 11.9 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 The Board of Directors proposal regarding 2016 2 Adjustements has been made to show the underlying results, see page 107 for information 3 CEO COMMENTS CEO comments For Nordax, 2016 was a very successful year and is that our customers have become more and we have established ourselves as a publicly tradmore satisfied with the service they receive from ed bank with strong growth in new customers us, according to surveys that the research firm as well as in lending and earnings. Our business Bright regularly conducts. We have improved has developed positively in every market, with customer satisfaction and strengthened our relsteady lending growth, stable margins and ative position in the industry. Through improvestable credit quality. Together with increased ments to digital solutions and more convenient operational efficiency, this has led to improved processes, we have achieved this with higher earnings. For the global economy however 2016 efficiency. We have an ambitious development was in many ways a year distinguished by geoagenda ahead of us, with a focus on improving political uncertainty, relatively low growth and the customer experience through better digital low or negative interest rates. solutions, increased self-service options and simplified administrative processes. This will Our customers come to us because we can meet over time further improve customer satisfaction, their needs at a reasonable cost. We offer our make our employees’ work more stimulating and customers large loans with variable interest generate stable operating expenses. rates and long repayment periods. For loan customers, the total monthly expense is the most In Nordax’s business model, responsible lending important factor when choosing a lender. During and credit risk are always the focus. Our strong the year we consolidated our market-leading customer base ensures solid credit quality; our position in large loans to financially stable boraverage customer today is around 50 years rowers. The average loan in our lending portfolio old and has an income in line with or above the increased to 156,000 SEK (146,000), and in national average for the country. We make sure Finland we increased the maximum loan amount to always do thorough credit assessments, and to EUR 50,000. Our processes for on-boarding in the markets where it is needed we request adnew customers were improved and we have ditional data from customers to ensure that we been able to shorten the time it takes to process base our credit decisions on correct information. loan applications. There is room here for further During the year we joined the Finnish debt regisimprovement, especially in the German market. try, and we have continued to lobby Norwegian authorities to introduce a similar registry. From Nordax benefits from having all its employees our experience in Sweden and through numerin a single office. This facilitates day-to-day ous economic cycles, we know what a difference operations and controls and makes us agile. this can make in terms of accurate credit assessIn 2016 we strengthened our organisation by ments and how it can reduce the risk of over-inhiring skilled managers in IT, customer operadebtedness in society. Our credit loss level was tions and investor relations, among other areas. stable year-on-year at 1.4% (1.5%). The country-based organisation we established during the year for our units that directly interWe have an effective marketing model where face with customers has been an important step we target potential loan customers ourselves in improving customer service. Our employees to a large extent. This makes a big difference in have been quick to adapt, and the new organthe quality of our customer group and remains a isation has been successful. One sign of this very cost effective way to market our products. 4 CEO COMMENTS During the year we refined our direct marketing were able to reduce lending rates for our existprogramme and established several new loan ing customers in Sweden and Norway thanks to channels to reach our target group. lower funding costs. Demand for personal loans remains high in New lending continued to increase during 2016 Northern Europe, and while growing even faster and in our two largest markets, Norway and would be easy, we want to grow in the right way. Sweden, the loan portfolios grew in local curWe are protective of our credit quality and only rency by 15% and 10%, respectively. The Finnlend to qualified customers. We received a reish loan portfolio grew in 2016 by 10% in local cord number of applications during the year and currency, and Finland was the market with the our new lending reached a new high at 4,636 highest margins and the lowest credit loss levels MSEK, an increase of 14% compared to 2015. during the year. Spreading risk is an important component of Germany is our latest and so far smallest market, our business model and is why we use several with great future potential. During the year the different funding sources and have as our aim to loan portfolio grew by just over 30% and marmatch lending and funding in terms of currency gins trended higher. Our focus on the German and maturity. During the year we issued a senior market will increase in 2017 through additional unsecured bond, began offering retail savings resources and by broadening our marketing products in Germany, and extended and renegochannels as a complement to direct advertising. tiated our funding agreements with international banks. Our diversified funding greatly reduces Our operating expenses were relatively stable the risk of liquidity problems in the event of during the year thanks to a scalable platform market turbulence, while adding flexibility and and focus on improving processes. The adjusted enabling us to continue to finance a growing cost to income ratio decreased to 27.3% (28.5), lending business. and our goal is to be even more efficient. Nordax has strong core values that steer our Our capitalisation remains solid and improved day-to-day operations. We are a bank that is during the year. Our profitability and strong cash customer-focused, simple, sound and responsiflow enable us to fund both high-growth and a ble. Being a responsible company is strategically dividend to shareholders. important to us, as we are convinced that it benefits the business in the long term and is a FUTURE OUTLOOK competitive advantage. Our business model is Nordax’s outlook and growth potential are good designed to be sustainable through economic and our opportunities plentiful. I look forward, cycles and focuses on creating long-term value. together with all our employees, to further deDuring the year we formalised our sustainability veloping the company. In 2017 we will focus on efforts and joined the UN Global Compact. We maintaining sound and sustainable growth, imhave identified our most important sustainability proving the customer experience and strengthissues in dialog with various stakeholder groups. ening customer loyalty, increasing operational Going forward we will focus on four main areas: efficiency and solidifying our sustainability responsible lending, employee-well-being, efforts. This will create increased value for our business ethics and efficient use of resources. customers, employees, shareholders and society For more on our sustainability focus, see pages as a whole. 20–27. Our most important asset is our dedicated emCOMMENT ON RESULTS ployees. I want to express my deepest gratitude Our net profit increased to 446 MSEK (195) for all the great efforts during the year. and the return on our growing equity was 23%. Adjusted operating profit rose by 30% in 2016 to 510 MSEK and our loan portfolio grew by a total of 18%. Our margins were stable during the year. All our lending is at variable rates, which means that we adjust loan rates when funding Morten Falch costs and market interest rates change, thereby CEO generating stable margins. During the year we Stockholm 22 March 2017 5 TARGETS AND OUTCOMES Strong profit leads to strong performance Since the IPO in 2015, Nordax has three RETURN ON AVERAGE LOANS financial targets. They cover return, capitalisation and dividend to shareholders. TARGET All financial targets were met during 2016. To maintain a return through the cycle above 3% on net average loans. MOTIVATION To retain a sustainable business that can finance growth and a dividend to shareholders requires a solid return. OUTCOME In 2016 the adjusted return on average loans improved to 4.3% (3.8). Profitability strengthened mainly with the help of improved interest margins and increased operational efficiency. FROM NET INTEREST RETURN ON MARGIN TO RETURN AVERAGE LOANS TARGET OUTCOME 3.0 % 4.3% MARKETING EXPENSES CREDIT 1.2% > LOSSES NET 1.4% INTEREST MARGIN RETURN ON AVERAGE 9,3% LOANS 4.3% OPERATING EXPENSES 2.5% 6 TARGETS AND OUTCOMES CAPITALISATION DIVIDEND TARGET TARGET To maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio To maintain a payout ratio of approximately above 12% and a total capital ratio above 14% 40% of net profit. and a buffer of at least 1.5 percentage points above the requirements for the Common Equity MOTIVATION Tier 1 capital ratio and the total capital ratio. Prior to Nordax’s IPO, the Board of Directors decided to introduce a dividend policy. The MOTIVATION pay-out ratio is considered reasonable given Nordax shall be financially strong and well-capitalNordax’s profitability, capitalisation target, ised. The capital target was set taking into concapital position and growth ambition. It allows sideration the dividend target of 40% of net profit Nordax to grow while at the same time generatand the profitability and growth opportunities ing a cash flow for our shareholders. available to Nordax. A buffer of at least 1.5 percentage points is considered necessary to provide OUTCOME flexibility and manage any changes in capital For 2016 the Board of Directors has proposed a requirements or volatility in the growth rate. dividend of 1.60 SEK per share, corresponding to a pay-out ratio of 40%. For 2015 the dividend OUTCOME was 0.50 SEK per share, which was paid for the Capitalisation was strengthened in 2016 and second half of 2015, i.e., after the IPO in 2015. capital ratios improved by 1.4 percentage points. The margin to the regulatory requirement for Common Equity Tier 1 capital increased to 4.9 percentage points and for total capital to 2.9 percentage points. The improvement was driven by solid profitability, together with a change in the method used to calculate the capital requirement for operational risks. Nordax’s solid profitability in 2016 strengthened its capitalisation and financed growth in the loan portfolio and the proposed dividend of 40% of net profit for the year. CAPITALISATION DIVIDEND Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Pay-Out-Ratio TARGET OUTCOME TARGET OUTCOME > 12% 14.0% ˜40 % 40 % Total Capital Ratio Dividend 2016 TARGET OUTCOME > 14.6% 16.0% 1.60 SEK 7 BUSINESS MODEL Proven business model PERSONAL LOANS AND SAVINGS OUR MARKETING We offer unsecured personal loans with long We use a total of over 20 different channels to and flexible repayment periods to people who distribute offers in four geographical markets. are financially stable. Our savings customers The majority of lending is through our own receive competitive terms. channels, where we target customers ourselves with offerings. CENTRAL PLATFORM DIVERSIFIED FUNDING All our employees work at our office in StockThe key to our business model is not to rely on holm. Since the start in 2003 we have grown a single source of funding and instead have a to around 200 employees, who service nearly diversified funding structure to match assets and 150,000 customers in Sweden, Norway, Finland liabilities in terms of maturity and currency. and Germany. DATA-DRIVEN AND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS LENDING We are committed to running our business The foundation of our business is our experresponsibly. This is reflected in our attitude tise in risk assessment and marketing. We use toward customers, society, authorities, investors sophisticated data-driven methods to reach and employees. Since 2016 we are a participant customers through our marketing and to make in the UN Global Compact and work actively credit assessments. with sustainability. 8 STRATEGY Focused strategy Nordax has a focused strategy to create amount was 165,000 SEK, with higher averages sustainable and profitable growth. in Norway and Sweden and lower in Finland and Germany. The highest loan amount we offer is PRODUCTS WITH VALUE FOR 500,000 SEK in Norway and Sweden, 50,000 OUR CUSTOMERS EUR in Finland and 40,000 EUR in Germany. Nordax offers large unsecured loans to financialThe longest possible repayment period on our ly stable customers who has a need to bridge loans is 15 years. Since we focus on a stable and the gap between income and expenses. The mature target group, we offer our customers focus on larger personal loans is based on our a way to consolidate smaller debts and reduce long experience in credit assessment and the their monthly cost, but also to borrow for other sophisticated methods we use to reach a strong purchases or investments. customer group through targeted marketing. CENTRAL PLATFORM OFFERS Many people begin to borrow when they move SCALABILITY away from home, e.g., to pay for an education, All operations are carried out at a central office driver’s license, furniture or appliances, or other in Stockholm, where we manage all our marpurchases. We target customers who have kets. Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish and German passed the age of 30 and begun to live more employees work together in customer service. stable lives. Having everything centralised offers many advantages. It simplifies control and manageWe offer our customers long repayment periods ment of regulatory issues, reduces our enviwith a prepayment option without penalties. ronmental impact and shortens decision paths. The total monthly cost of the loan, amortisaThe centralised model allows for scalability and tion and interest is the most important thing cost efficiency, two factors that are becoming for our customers. In 2016 the average new loan increasingly important to stay competitive in an industry with highly standardised products. STATED REASON TO APPLY FOR LOAN ADJUSTED COST/INCOME RATIO % OTHER 13% 32.2 31.0 29.4 28.5 CAR AND 27.3 BOAT 9% CONSOLIDATION OF SMALLER CREDITS 57% REFURBISHMENT 21% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 9 STRATEGY FINANCIALLY STABLE CUSTOMERS ROBUST CREDIT ASSESSMENTS We primarily target customers between the PRODUCE STABLE CREDIT QUALITY ages of 30 and 60. We avoid lending to youngEvaluating risk is part of our DNA thanks to our er people, since they in many cases have not long experience in the industry through various achieved the stability necessary for us to make economic cycles. Knowledge and the collection an accurate credit assessment. The average age and use of relevant data over a long period to of our loan customers is 52. They are financially build algorithms for credit assessments are corstable with an income level in line with or above nerstones in our model. We have a data-driven the national average and many own their own process for credit assessments that begins alhomes. Just over one fourth of those who have a ready with marketing to financially stable loan from us have a co-borrower. Only 2% of our individuals. It is based on statistical models that total lending is to customers younger than 30. we continuously test and improve. Our customers amortise, on average, about 2 The process is partly automated, but many percent of its debt per month which we think is approvals are reviewed manually to ensure that healthy. We do not offer interest-only loans. the data are correct before a final decision is made. The minimum criteria include that the  customer has a permanent address and no history of unpaid and past due debts. We then score the applicant depending, for example, on income and family situation. There is a scoring model for each country based on historical results for our loan portfolio. The scoring model is evaluated and reviewed each month. In the credit assessment we prepare a “left to live on” calculation and look at the customer’s total debt level. Our assessment is thorough, and in 2016 we approved only about one fourth of the applications we received. It is vital from a customer and long-term profitability perspective to never compromise on credit quality. OUR CUSTOMERS NET CREDIT LOSS LEVEL % AVERAGE AGE OWN THEIR OWN 52 HOME years 67% 1.8 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.2 AVERAGE MONTHLY INCOME 37,000 SEK In line with or above the national average in each 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 market 10 STRATEGY STABLE LENDING MARKETS UNIQUE DISTRIBUTION MODEL Nordax is currently active in four markets in Our marketing is effective, and the strategy is Northern Europe: Sweden, Norway, Finland and based in large part in seeking out customers Germany. They all share a stable macroeconomic ourselves. Our loan offers are marketed through outlook, stable public finances, comprehensive several different channels mainly targeted social insurance systems and good access to marketing, but also through loan brokers, digital personal data, which facilitates credit assesschannels and lending to existing customers. ments. Targeted marketing is our core competence and consists of addressed direct mail, unaddressed Our markets are characterised by a proven prodirect mail and marketing through partners. We pensity among private customers to repay their identify clusters of potential customers where debts at the same time that there is an effective we from experience know there may be indilegal system in place for debt collection. The viduals who are interested in and can afford a option of seeking payment through a neutral enlarger loan. Many of our customers are reached forcement authority through wage garnishment through the postal system. In this way we are is also a common denominator for our markets. sure to reach the potential customers we most want to and they in turn have the opportunity to Geographically diversified lending is a strength, consider our offer in peace and quiet. We work since economic conditions and growth proscontinuously to optimise response rates and pects in different markets vary over time. the quality of loan applications with the help of sophisticated data analysis. We prefer direct marketing channels to broker channels, since they are more cost-efficient and have lower credit risk. We use brokers only in segments where we have expertise – in evaluating large personal loans. Despite the higher percentage of approved loans in direct marketing channels, these channels consistently have lower credit risk. Efficiency and lending growth in our direct marketing channels are good, but we have also increased the number of lending channels in recent years to reach more individuals in our target group. NEW LENDING LENDING BY MARKET – CHANNEL DISTRIBUTION DENMARK 1% ONLINE 5% GERMANY 6% FINLAND BROKERS 18% 23% SWEDEN DIRECT 34% MARKETING 52% REPEAT SALES NORWAY 20% 41% 11 STRATEGY DIVERSIFIED FUNDING FACILITATES Maintaining good liquidity is important to us GROWTH AND REDUCES RISK and at year-end we had utilised about 70% Nordax has a diversified funding structure where of deposits to finance our lending. The rest is lending is matched to a great extent with fundplaced in a liquidity reserve, which invests in ing in terms of maturity, term and currency. Our fixed-income securities with AA and AAA ratings long experience in consumer finance has taught that are eligible for refinancing with central us that a sustainable business model should not banks as well as bank holdings. In total, our rely on a single funding source. liquidity reserve amounted to SEK 2.2 billion at year-end and our liquidity measures exceeded The strategy to diversify funding and take a by a wide margin the regulatory requirements. conservative approach to liquidity is chosen in order to reduce refinancing and liquidity risks, With a diversified platform, we ensure that two of the largest and most important risks that we have funding for our future lending growth. the bank has to face. It offers flexibility depending on current market conditions. The majority of our savings accounts We obtain funding by issuing securitised assets are on-demand deposits and have variable inter(ABS), senior unsecured bonds, secured funding est rates. In Germany we offer fixed-rate savings from international banks, deposits from the genaccounts with a term of one or two years. eral public in all our markets and equity. FINANCINGMIX SENIOR UNSECURED BONDS 3% TIER 2 BONDS 2% EQUITY 14% DEPOSITS 46% BANK WAREHOUSES 20% ASSETBACKED SECURITIES 15% 12 STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND that we stay on top in this area have gradually SUSTAINABILITY OUR BUSINESS been increased. It is important for us to have MODEL strong internal governance and control and eduLong-term profitability is dependent on the cate our staff in the area. We have a good relationconfidence in us as a bank. As a publicly listed ship with authorities and regulators, which we are company, we have an especially large responkeen to maintain. We are committed to doing the sibility to authorities and our owners. Taking right thing and contributing to society. We mainresponsibility is part of our culture and pervades tain our registered office in Sweden and pay 22% our operations and how we act with customin Swedish corporate tax on our taxable profit. ers, the community, authorities, investors and employees. The key to Nordax’s operations is Since Nordax operates out of a single office, we responsible lending, where we in our marketdo not have a significant direct impact on the ing are transparent about the terms, pricing environment, but environmental and climate and conditions associated with our products. issues are important to us. Our clearest impact We offer loan products only to customers who on the environment is from the distribution of are financially stable and we always perform a direct mail to potential customers, where we robust credit assessment to reduce the risk that try to use environmentally friendly materials. In our customers will incur future problems. Our our communication with existing customers and customers are offered payment protection insurour internal processes we try to reduce the use ance to reduce the risk of being unable to repay of paper in favour of digital solutions. For more their loan in the event of an illness or job loss. information on our sustainability commitment, see pages 20–27. As an employer, we care about our employees and their working environment. Through regular TAKING RESPONSIBILITY AND monitoring and training, we try to encourage SUSTAINABILITY employees to stay healthy and prevent sick l Responsible lending is the core of our leave. We are committed to gender equality and sustainability efforts diversity and each year conduct a salary audit to l Member of the UN Global Compact ensure that fair wages are being paid. The latest initiative since 2016 survey showed that that there are no unjustified l Equal pay, women paid 1% more than pay differences between women and men. men for comparable functions Business ethics and compliance are critical to l 60/40 distribution between men and us, and these two issues are always at the top of women on the Board of Directors the Board of Directors’ agenda. Without quesl 50/50 distribution between men and tion, we carefully follow all legal and regulatory women in senior management requirements. The internal resources to ensure l Limited direct environmental impact EQUAL ORGANISATION Distribution men and women Salaries men and women Board OF DIRECTORS DIFFERENCE COMPARABLE 60/40 FUNCTIONS +1% for Distribution men and women SENIOR MANAGEMENT women 50/50 13 PRIORITIES Focus on customers and efficiency creates growth Nordax´s priorities are focused on longIMPROVE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND term competitiveness and sustainable STRENGTHEN CUSTOMER LOYALTY growth. The areas below are those we feel l Simplified and improved loan application process will contribute the most in the near term l Increased self-service options l Improved customer relationship management to creating value for our stakeholders. (CRM) INCREASED NEW LENDING AND We are committed to a high level of service for SUSTAINABLE GROWTH our customers, and in 2016 customers satisl Strengthen position in large loans and consolifaction increased. Our aim in 2017 is to further dation of smaller credits improve and simplify for our customers, especiall More and developed sales channels ly in terms of digital services. In the last two years l Improve processes for new customers we have introduced electronic signatures for loan customers in Sweden, Norway and Finland and The aim is to further increase new lending and in 2017 will we give deposit customers the option organic growth in every market. We will focus of managing their savings digitally. For loan cuson being more efficient and relevant in existing tomers we will improve the application process channels, but also on continuing to broaden our and reduce manual steps. It should be easy and offering through more channels and collaboraconvenient to become a customer and to manage tions. In Germany, we have only used addressed loans through digital self-service options. We direct mail, but in 2017 we will evaluate whethwill improve our customer relationship manageer to expand our marketing to more channels. ment (CRM) tools to ensure that we offer the More convenient processes to on-board as a right products at the right times to our existing new customer and an improved experience for customers. existing customers will contribute to increased new lending. A precondition for increased new lending and sustainable growth is that margins SUSTAINABILITY PART remain attractive and credit quality is good. OF OUR BUSINESS l Continue strategic sustainability efforts l Make progress in four identified core areas: INCREASED OPERATIONAL responsible lending, employee well-being, EFFICIENCY business ethics and efficient use of resources l Automated and paperless processes l Focus on efficiency in the organisation In the area of responsible lending the focus is to maintain low credit risk in the lending portfolio. Greater focus was placed on efficiency in 2016, With respect to employee well-being, we will which included a reorganisation of our customer improve and increase the interaction between service units into a geographical structure inleaders and employees through frequent pulse stead of a functional structure. This allows us to surveys. In the priority area of business ethics, more effectively interact with customers. In 2017 we will formalise how we view ethics in a code our customers will get more digital self-services of conduct. In terms of efficient use of resources options. Communication with customers will also we will work on how we can reduce the envibe handled digitally to a greater extent, simplironmental impact of our offices and increase fying our work and improving efficiencies, which the rate of digitisation in order to reduce paper customers appreciate. All our employees are foconsumption. For more information, see page 27. cused more on efficiency and smarter solutions, which is key to become even more competitive. 14 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Strong lending and profit growth In 2016 the loan portfolio continued markets with the highest relative growth in Germato grow and Nordax strengthened its ny. New lending was just over SEK 4.6 billion, an profit and capital position. Growth in the increase of 14% compared to 2015. loan portfolio in all markets, improved margins, increased cost efficiency and SIGNIFICANT PROFIT IMPROVEMENT Net profit improved to 446 MSEK (195). The solid credit quality all contributed to the increase was mainly due to lending growth, strongest profit in Nordax’s history. which generated higher net interest income, positive FX effects and the non-recurring cost HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 of 75 MSEK in 2015 connected with the IPO. l Net profit increased to 446 MSEK (195) l The loan portfolio grew by 18% Adjusted operating profit increased by 30% to l Adjusted operating profit improved by 30% 510 MSEK (392) mainly as a result of increased l Increased cost efficiency net interest income and increased efficiency. l Improved credit quality l Return on equity 23% The adjusted return on equity excluding intanl Stronger capitalisation gible assets improved to 24.6% (23.2) despite l Earnings per share 4.02 SEK (1.76) higher equity. The adjusted return on average l Proposed dividend 1.60 SEK per share (0.50) net loans was 4.3% (3.8). NEW LENDING PRODUCED Earnings per share increased to 4.02 SEK (1.76). STRONG GROWTH Adjusted earnings per share increased by 29% Continued effective marketing and an attractive to 3.58 SEK (2.76). loan offer helped to grow the loan portfolio by 18% to a total of SEK 12.8 billion. Adjusted for FX effects the increase was 12%. The loan portfolio grew in all TOTAL LENDING AND NEW LENDING ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT BILLION SEK MSEK 12.8 10.8 10.0 510 8.4 7.5 392 358 275 4.6 183 3.8 4.1 3.2 2.5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 15 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IMPROVED NET INTEREST INCOME INCREASED EFFICIENCY Total operating income increased by 32% to Nordax is focused on increasing operational 1,176 MSEK (888) mainly driven by a larger loan efficiency and thereby improving the adjusted portfolio and higher net interest margins, but cost to income ratio (which excludes marketing also by positive FX effects. expenses). Marketing expenses, which are an investment in new lending, account for about a Net interest income increased by 19% to 1,100 MSEK third of the total cost base. Marketing efficiency (927). Contributing to the increase were higher is regularly monitored and measured as marketlending volumes, lower funding costs and iming expenses in relation to new lending. proved margins due to new loans granted with higher margins relative to the existing portfolio. The total operating expenses decreased to 439 Net interest income improved in all markets MSEK (481) due to one-off expenses of 75 MSEK and the net interest margin increased to 9.3% in 2015 related to the IPO. General administrative (8.9). In Sweden and Norway lending rates for expenses rose by 11% to 291 MSEK (261). Larger existing customers are adjusted when Nordax’s business volumes and operational investments funding costs change. During the year lending contributed to the increase. Higher regulatoryrates for Swedish customers were reduced by a driven costs and provisions for variable remunetotal of one percentage point and for Norwegian ration due to the improved result during the customers by a half percentage point. In Finland year also raised expenses. The largest share of and Germany lending rates for existing customgeneral administrative expenses is staff costs, ers are adjusted based on market rates. Variawhich account for about 60% of expenses. ble lending rates contribute to a stable interest margin when market rates change. Other operating expenses, which largely consist of marketing expenses, rose by 10% to 136 MSEK Net profit from financial transactions amount(124) as a result of expanded marketing activities, ed to 60 MSEK (-55) with a stronger NOK and which generated an increase in new lending EUR having a positive effect. Nordax has open of 14% during the year. Marketing efficiency positions in currencies to protect its capital adimproved slightly during the year. equacy ratio from currency fluctuations. The FX effect on regulatory capital has a corresponding Non-recurring items during the period related to impact on profit from financial transactions. the VAT reversal associated with the IPO in 2015 and other cost reductions related to the IPO. Net commission income, which largely consists This reduced expenses by a total of 13 MSEK. of income from the sale of payment protection The same period in 2015 included non-recurring insurance (PPI), was stable at 16 MSEK (16). costs of 75 MSEK related to the IPO. The adjusted cost to income improved during the year to 27.3% (28.5). INCREASED INCOME ADJUSTED COST/INCOME RATIO % TOTAL INCOME +32 % 32.2 31.0 29.4 28.5 27.3 IMPROVED NET INTEREST MARGIN 9.3 % (8.9 ) % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 16 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STABLE CREDIT QUALITY Nordax offers retail deposit products to priAND TAX RATE vate customers in all markets where we have a Net credit losses increased slightly to 164 MSEK lending operation. Retail deposit products were (157). The credit loss level improved to 1.4% (1.5). launched in Germany during the year and at year-end deposits in Germany amounted to The level decreased during the year in Finland 1,103 MSEK. Total deposits increased to 7,141 and increased slightly in Sweden from low levels. MSEK (6,001) to finance lending growth. The credit loss levels in Norway and Germany were stable compared to the previous year. Nordax’s funding costs fell during the year, which benefitted customers through lower lendThe lowest credit loss level was reported in ing rates in Sweden and Norway. Finland and the highest in Germany, where the provision level for bad debts is conservative due Nordax has robust liquidity and had a liquidity to Nordax’s shorter history and data on recovreserve at 31 December 2016 of 2,189 MSEK, eries. which is conservatively invested in fixed-income securities with an average rating of AA and bank Credit losses remained well below the target of a holdings. Basically, about 30% of deposits from 2% credit loss level over a business cycle. the public is allocated as liquidity and 70% is used to finance lending. All bank holdings in the Tax amounted to 127 MSEK (55). The effective liquidity portfolio are accessible and all securitax rate was stable at 22%. ties are repo-able with central banks. Nordax’s liquidity measure exceeds by a wide margin the STRONG BALANCE SHEET current and expected future regulatory requireAND LIQUIDITY ments with a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) Total assets increased by 11% during the year of 553% and a stable net stable funding ratio to 15,773 MSEK (14,162) due to a growing loan (NSFR) of 127%. portfolio. Lending to the public grew by 18% to 12,794 MSEK. Lending grew in all markets. Nordax obtains funding about equally from the capital market and deposits from the public. At year-end about 46% of funding was deposits, about 40% capital market funding and 14% equity funding. NET CREDIT LOSS LEVEL SOLID LIQUIDITY % 1.8 LIQUIDITY RESERVE 1.4 1.2 1.5 1.4 2.2 BILLION SEK LCR NSFR 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 553 % 127 % 17 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE EQUITY Total Common Equity Tier 1 capital increased to Equity generation remained strong as a result 1,640 MSEK (1,369) and the Common Equity Tier of the higher profit and total equity grew to 1 capital ratio strengthened to 14.0% (12.6% as of 2,120 MSEK (1,733). 31 December 2015). The margins to the regulatory requirements and the capital target increased REGULATORY CAPITAL during the year. Nordax’s Common Equity Tier Nordax strengthened its capitalisation during 1 capital requirement was 9.1% at year-end and the year and its solid profitability contributed to the capital target is a Common Equity Tier 1 increased buffers relative to regulatory requirecapital ratio of at least 12%. The Common Equity ments and the capital target. Tier 1 capital requirement is comprised of the Common Equity Tier 1 Minimum Requirement of Capital ratios improved during the year and the 4.5%, the Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.5%, total capital ratio was 16.0% (14.6) at year-end. 1.1% for the Countercyclical Capital Buffer and The improvement is due to the solid return Nor1.0% for Pillar II buffers. The countercyclical dax generated and because the method used to buffer is calculated as a weighted average of the calculate operational risk was changed during required level for each country’s portfolio. the year from the basic indicator approach to the alternative standardised approach. The Nordax’s leverage ratio, which measures the regulatory requirement is a total capital ratio of ratio between capital and total assets, improved 13.1% and the target is a total capital ratio over during the year to 10.8% (9.9), which is well over 14% or at least 1.5 percentage points above the the levels indicated for future regulations. regulatory requirement. The capital ratio includes a dividend provision in accordance with the Board of Directors’ proposal to the 2017 Annual General Meeting. TOTAL EQUITY COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL RATIO MSEK 2,120 REQUIREMENT TARGET 1,085 1,287 1,538 1,733 9.1% >12% Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12.6% 14.0% 18 CORE VALUES Sound core values steer the business Nordax has strong core values that are l Responsible – Accountability is part of our important to how the company acts culture and typifies our business and the and is seen by our various stakeholders. way we act towards customers, authorities, Nordax is a customer-centric bank that investors and employees. We have been regulated by the Swedish Financial Superis simple, sound and responsible. Nordax visory Authority since 2004. Our risk was founded by entrepreneurs driven management, governance and compliance by a strong focus on customers and risk processes all maintain high quality. management. This approach is still evident in our day-to-operations and corpol Customer centric – We listen to our customrate culture. ers and consistently maintain a high service level. As a customer, you shall be able to We are a niche bank that is: make reasoned decisions calmly. We are committed to assisting customers who face l Simple – We are agile and efficient. financial difficulties. Our terms for loans and savings accounts are simple and clear. l Sound – Nordax was founded by risk analysts, and risk assessment is part of our DNA. All our decisions are well-founded, and we never take shortcuts. We offer loan products only to customers who are financially stable. Our credit assessment is sound and solid. We have a stable capital position and obtain funding through several sources. 19 SUSTAINABILITY Nordax Sustainability focus Being a responsible business is critical to CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE Nordax’s success. We are convinced that We have many different stakeholders that we it benefits us in the long term while at the create value for through our operations. As a same time delivering value to our stakelender, we are part of an important sector of the holders. If Nordax takes responsibility national economy that provides people a way to redistribute their spending across their lifetime. today, we will be better positioned to reThrough responsible lending, we want to create main a successful business in the future. value for all our stakeholders. The figure below shows how we generate economic value for our stakeholders. DISTRIBUTION OF NORDAX TOTAL GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE 2016, 1 268 MSEK Salaries, social security expenses and pensions 166 MSEK Payments suppliers 241 MSEK Tax expense, non deductible VAT, deposit guarantee fee, resolution fee and fee for stability fund 161 MSEK Interest paid to the public (deposits) 104 MSEK Interest paid for o ther financing 150 MSEK Proposed dividend t o shareholders 178 MSEK Net profit r einvested in Nordax 268 MSEK 20 SUSTAINABILITY NORDAX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR MOST IMPORTANT AREAS As part of our efforts to be a responsible – INTERNAL PERSPECTIVE business, we joined the UN Global Compact in In 2015 we identified our most important sus2016 and present our first sustainability report tainability areas through a materiality analysis according to the international guidelines for that included gathering business intelligence, sustainability present, GRI version G4 level Core, an industry benchmark survey and several issued by the Global Reporting Initiative. This workshops with a select group of key individumeans that we report according to accepted als within Nordax. This was done to identify the guidelines that make sustainability reporting most important areas affecting our competitivecomparable to other companies. For information ness and stakeholders’ confidence in us. on GRI G4 indicators, see the index on pages The most important areas we identified were 110-112. (in no particular order): l Employee well-being SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS, MATERIALl Responsible lending ITY ANALYSIS AND STAKEHOLDER l Financial results DIALOGUE l Financial education We are always seeking to develop our approach l Indirect economic impact to sustainability. To structure our work and l Customer privacy and data security identify the most important issues affecting our l Customer satisfaction competitiveness and stakeholders’ confidence l Environmental impact in us, we performed a materiality analysis in l Money laundering issues 2015 from an internal perspective. In 2016 our l Compliance aim was to validate Nordax’s internal priorities, as part of which we dialogued with selected stakeholder groups to find out which areas they think we should focus on and their expectations. We then weighed the areas our stakeholders see as most important with those Nordax considers strategically important to ensure the creation of long-term value. PROCESS NORDAX SUSTAINABILITY WORK 2015 2016 BUSINESS STAKEHOLDER STRATEGY AND GLOBAL REPORTING REVIEW DIALOGUE PROCESSES COMPACT • Market intelligence • V  alidation of per•S ustainability •J  oined UN Global •S  ustainability re• Benchmark formed materiality strategy Compact porting according • Internal review analysis • Targets to GRI G4 “core” 21 SUSTAINABILITY OUR MOST IMPORTANT ISSUES A sample of the feedback from our stakeholders – EXTERNAL PERSPECTIVE follows: Nordax has a number of different external and internal stakeholders who affect and are affectFEEDBACK FROM OUR CUSTOMERS ed by our operations. We have identified the folThe large percentage of customers feel that lowing stakeholder groups: customers, employNordax’s sustainability approach can help greatees, owners, investors, suppliers and partners, ly to strengthen their loyalty. They also feel that decision-makers, supervisory authorities and the focus on responsible lending, customer satstakeholder organisations. We are in dialogue isfaction and IT security are the most important with many of our stakeholders on a daily basis. areas for Nordax in these efforts. In 2016 we maintained a structured dialog with customers, employees, shareholders and stakeFEEDBACK FROM OUR INVESTORS holder organisations to validate our materialAND STAKEHOLDER ORGANISATIONS ity analysis and understand how they see our Nordax’s investors and stakeholder organisacommitment to sustainability and what they feel tions feel that the company is genuinely commitwe should prioritise going forward. The dialog ted, but that the work would benefit from being was conducted through surveys of Swedish and more strategic and integrated in day-to-day Norwegian lending and savings customers and operations. employees. We have also conducted in-depth interviews with three major shareholders and a FEEDBACK FROM OUR EMPLOYEES stakeholder organisation. The majority of our employees feel that the company’s dedication to sustainability is very In general, there is a consensus on which asimportant for them. They consider responsible pects are important for Nordax to deliver longlending to be the most important area of Nordterm value to our various stakeholders. ax’s sustainability efforts. NORDAX CORE AREAS FOR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Balanced perspective Lending & Social Governance Environment products RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYEE SOLID BUSINESS EFFICIENT USE LENDING WELL-BEING ETHICS OF RESOURCES 22 SUSTAINABILITY Responsible lending In Nordax’s business model there is a for a loan. All our lending is instalment loans and built-in risk that our customers, due to varamortising loans. If a customer wants to amorious circumstances, may incur problems tise faster or prepay their entire loan, we do not repaying their loan, which is not desirable charge any additional fees. for the customer, society or us as a lender. Our ambition is a net credit loss level of 2% over an economic cycle, a level we have been well Given the nature of our business, responsible below in recent years. In 2016 the credit loss lending is the most critical aspect to creating level was further reduced to a total of 1.4%. Our long-term value. To us, responsible lending ambition is to continue to grow the loan portfomeans being transparent in our marketing about lio, but growth may not come at the price of less the terms, pricing and conditions associated thorough credit assessments. with our products. As a customer, you should be able to make well-informed decisions calmly. To attract new customers, maintain and develop relationships with existing customers and for We offer loan products only to customers who the sake of our brand, our customers have to be are financially stable and we always make a satisfied with the services we offer. Nordax robust credit assessment to reduce the risk that conducts systematic customer satisfaction they will face future problems. If a customer has surveys. After speaking with customers, we send a problem repaying a loan, we try to help. We out random questionnaires asking about their have specially trained employees who coninteraction. The questions concern our engagetact customers early on to remind them that a ment, knowledge, ability to resolve the issue payment is late, so that we can together find a on first contact and their general satisfaction. solution and if possible offer advice and support. The response rate is about 20%. The results are followed up systematically at both a unit To make a correct credit assessment, we always and individual level and the target is an overall do a thorough credit check. The assessment is satisfaction rate of at least 85%, which Nordax done in accordance with good lending practice achieved on an aggregate level in 2016. and is always based on the customer’s financial situation and is done in accordance with Nordax’s If our customers for any reason are dissatisfied credit policy. To ensure that the information on with us, we have clearly defined routines in place loan applicants is correct, a large share of our to handle complaints, and we are clear and customers are contacted by phone. In martransparent about where they can turn, both to kets where we have access to less information us at Nordax and outside the company. through credit agencies, we request additional material, e.g., salary statements and tax returns, to ensure that our customers can repay their AMBITIONS 2017 – RESPONSIBLE loans. A prospective customer cannot have a LENDING l Continue our responsible lending with focus record of non-payment, must have enough of on maintaining solid credit quality a margin to afford the loan, which we ensure l Continue to offer advice and support to custhrough our “left to live on” calculation, and cantomers having difficulty repaying their loans not be over-indebted. in order to help them get back on track l Analyse how we can expand our offer to We think it is sound that our customers do not promote lending for environmental improvereceive their money the second after they apply ments 23 SUSTAINABILITY Employee well-being Our employees are our most important we have introduced an engagement index and asset. Competent and motivated employan eNPS score, which measures the willingness ees who enjoy their work provide better to recommend Nordax as an employer. The first service for our customers. As a result of measurement in December 2016 produced an engagement score of 65 (on a scale of 0-100) broad competence and personal responand an eNPS score 3.7 (on a scale between -100 sibility, a corporate culture based on parto + 100, where 0 is a neutral recommendation). ticipation and decisiveness has emerged. We will continuously follow up and work to An unfettered atmosphere, short decision improve these numbers. paths and a working environment notable for cooperation, job satisfaction and A LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENTAL commitment foster motivation. ENVIRONMENT We have to constantly learn from each other and DIALOG WITH OUR EMPLOYEES the world around us to develop as individuals At Nordax we have the benefit of having all our and grow the business. We work almost excluemployees together in a single office, which sively in cross-functional project groups and facilitates a daily dialog and speeds up project see our collective capacity as a success factor. implementation. The most important dialog and Together, we have to continue to learn from dissemination of information occurs on a daily each other and focus on further developing each basis between managers and their employees, employee’s skills. As part of this, we implementbut we also distribute information and share ed an organisational change in 2016 for those ideas in many other ways. Every month we hold units that interact with customers, switching a breakfast meeting for the entire staff where from a functional to a country-based structure. we provide information on current issues and The purpose was to give our customers even projects. There is also an opportunity for employbetter service and at the same time increase ees to bring up any issues they want to discuss. our employees’ competence by giving them a To ensure a deeper dialog and discussion on broader mandate to support customers. performance and future development, employees have an annual performance conversation with In addition to courses outside the company, we their manager. In addition, we focus on continuinvest in effective training methods internally. ous feedback. In the end of 2016 a digital training portal was launched for all employees to partly replace We have historically conducted a major employee traditional classroom training. The portal offers survey every second year, but recently switched employees more flexibility and opportunities to to smaller and more frequent employee pulse build skills. surveys with the assistance of a cloud-based service. The aim is to facilitate a continuous dialogue LEADERSHIP with our employees, which helps us to ensure Leadership at Nordax is a matter of understandtheir well-being. The continuous feedback also ing and taking responsibility for our business gives us an opportunity to adapt the questions and driving it forward through the ability to based on what is happening here and now in the manage and develop others. We place a premibusiness. In addition to incorporating this tool, um on hands-on leadership where managers sit 24 SUSTAINABILITY together with their staff in an open-plan office as a sign of our commitment and generosity to to make daily and individual coaching possiour employees. We are concerned about our ble. The management team works with annual employees’ well-being and are committed to 360-degree evaluations, an online feedback tool maintaining the strong entrepreneurial spirit that gives leaders an opportunity to identify and informal codetermination that already strengths and development needs, which are exists. We rather spend what it costs to join later followed up at individual meetings with an an employer’s association on investments in external coach. wellness, social activities and a sound working environment. SAFE AND SOUND WORKING ENVIRONMENT GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY Improving and developing our working environGender equality and diversity are important to ment is a natural element in Nordax’s developus. Our view is that everyone should be treated ment and is strategically important to us. Our with respect and valued equally. Every employee working environment is characterised by openhas the right to be seen, heard and respected ness, where every employee is treated equally on the job, regardless of age, ethnicity, religion, and with respect. physical limitation, gender or sexual orientation. With respect to ethnic origin, we will continue to To ensure that we maintain a positive place broaden our diversity, e.g., by drafting a hiring to work, we had a team of representatives of policy and formalising our core values. employers and employees join together in 2016 to implement new working environment rules. Of our employees, 67% are women and 33% The group drafted an action plan for further men. Among managers, 57% are women and improvements, including setting guidelines for 43% men. The Senior Management Team conmanaging email. During the year we also consists of an equal number of women and men and ducted a survey to measure work-related stress. on our Board of Directors 5 members are men The overall results show that our employees are and 3 are women. satisfied with leadership and feel they receive strong support from their immediate superviNordax encourages employees to take parental sor and colleagues. Moreover, most feel they leave by supplementing their income for up to have the skills to perform their jobs. The results one year. Various initiatives have been taken show that our challenge, like that of many other to facilitate a work-life balance, including by companies with large customer service units, is trying wherever possible to schedule meetings to give employees more say in these areas. The between 9 am and 3 pm. reorganisation of customer service units during the year was designed to, among other things, We conduct annual salary surveys to ensure that make our employees’ jobs more stimulating. there is no gender pay gap. The latest survey from March 2016 showed that women receive As part of our efforts to create a sound working 101% of men’s salaries. In our industry this is environment, we regularly monitor sick leave, something we can be very proud of. To us, the cooperate with occupational health providers notion of equal wages for equal work goes withand work actively with various initiatives to out question. reduce illness and prevent sick leave. We also offer ergonomic assessments, annual wellness AMBITIONS 2017 – EMPLOYEE subsidies and arrange various wellness chalWELL-BEING lenges and activities. In 2016 we adopted new l Develop our core value work and our commuguidelines on rehabilitation, workplace accomnication platform modations and sick leave to reduce and prevent l Improve and increase interaction and feedabsences. back between Nordax’s leaders and employees with the help of continuous employee Nordax currently has not signed any collective pulse surveys bargaining agreements. We do, however, adhere l Develop a basic company joint training proto the industry’s agreement, which we consider gram for Nordax’s managers essential in order to stay competitive. We see the low level of union membership in the company 25 SUSTAINABILITY Solid Business Ethics Nordax wants to contribute to an ethical Reporting can be done anonymously to closest business community, not least to create manager, the Chief Compliance Officer or the confidence in the financial market. Fair Chairman of the Risk Committee through Nortreatment, transparency and taking respondax’s risk management system. All reports are investigated immediately and appropriate action sibility are three aspects that describe Noris taken. In 2016 there were no reports of irregudax’s view of what business ethics means. larities, unethical or unlawful behaviour in Nordax. For Nordax, it is fundamental to act ethically and responsibly, which includes meeting legal reOUTSOURCING For any company in the financial sector, internal quirements and ethical standards as well as maingovernance and control are indispensable. This taining a sound risk culture. Nordax has estabalso covers activities and businesses that are lished a business ethics framework that includes outsourced to suppliers and partners. Nordax strategies, processes, internal rules and reporting has extensive routines to continuously monitor routines to promote sound and ethical behaviour outsourced operations and ensure compliance in everything the bank does. High ethical standand effective risk management. ards apply to the entire company, from the Board of Directors to each individual employee. SUPPLY CHAIN Nordax’s procurement organisation is centralMost of the business ethics framework is incorised with respect to company-wide purchases porated in Nordax’s policy on ethical standards. and decentralised for function-specific purchasParts of the framework are also in other goves. All employees responsible for procurement erning documents. To create a more uniform are tasked with keeping both sustainability and approach to business ethics, work has begun on economic efficiency in mind. By placing deestablishing a code of conduct. mands on our suppliers, we can contribute to sustainability inside Nordax and out. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Conflicts of interest are unavoidable, and identifying and managing them is essential in order to CUSTOMER RELATIONS Our customers’ needs and demands are the maintain complete confidence. Nordax has routines basis of Nordax’s business. Ethical treatment of to continuously identify and manage potential conpotential and existing customers is fundamental. flicts of interest at every level of the company. Nordax tries to give every customer personalised service. Well-informed decisions are essenFIGHTING FINANCIAL CRIME tial to having satisfied and profitable customers, At Nordax, the term financial crime refers to which in turn creates the potential for building a money laundering, terrorist financing, bribes and sustainable business that creates value. corruption. Nordax takes a number of measures on a daily basis to prevent and detect financial crime. Fighting it is a matter of course for NorAMBITIONS 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS l Complete, communicate and train staff in dax, first and foremost to curb crime in general, Nordax’s risk-based code of conduct but also to protect the business and the brand. l Evaluate how solid business ethics is secured at suppliers and partners WHISTLEBLOWING l Identify key indicators to measure Nordax’s Nordax advocates transparency and encouragperformance in terms of business ethics es employees to report suspected irregularities, unethical or unlawful behaviour within Nordax. 26 SUSTAINABILITY Efficient use of resources Our business has limited direct impact on WASTE MANAGEMENT the environment. The biggest impact is We have a well-functioning waste management from our distribution of direct mail to posolution at our office to maximise recycling. This tential customers. We manage the operapplies to paper, plastics, electronics and other ation from a single office, which reduces recyclables. For example, all reusable electronic equipment is given to a partner company that the need for travel. At the same time, the specialises in reuse and lifecycle management of environment and climate change are one IT products. of the most important issues of our time, and we want to contribute to the UN’s OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT global climate goals. The environmental impact from our office and travel is limited, but here as well we are trying ECO-EFFICIENT CUSTOMER to reduce it. We established a travel policy in COMMUNICATION 2016 that all employees have been informed of Our goal is to handle more of our communicathrough company meetings and the intranet. tion with customers digitally instead of by post. Employees are expected to be eco-conscious This simplifies processes for customers, for us, and cost-effective travellers. We will try to use is more cost effective and reduces our impact more mass transit and travel by train rather than on the environment. In 2016 we started to offer car, taxi or air whenever possible. electronic invoicing in Sweden and started sending general correspondence by text message or Electricity consumed in our office and cooling email instead. The targets in terms of digital defor our server room is from renewable sources. velopment and simplifying processes to reduce In 2016, 225,914 kWh were consumed. paper consumption are ambitious, and much remains to be done. AMBITIONS 2017 – EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES In our direct mail we always use the most envil Continue digitalisation and process improveronmentally friendly paper available. Direct mail ments to reduce paper consumption is one of our core competencies and will remain l Evaluate how we can expand our offer to an important part of our distribution model, but promote environmental improvements we are trying to transition as much as possible of l Sign a “green” lease to review and update our customer flow after that to digital distribution. an action plan to further reduce the office’s environmental impact l Identify key indicators to measure Nordax’s resource consumption 27 RISK MANAGEMENT Sound risk culture generates sustainable profitability Nordax’s business model is based on a l The first line of defence is the risk managerestrictive approach to risk taking, and ment performed daily by operations. the bank has a low risk appetite and risk l The second line of defence is by the Risk Contolerance. This approach to risk pervades trol and Compliance functions, which monitor, control and report the company’s risks and every part of operations and has helped whether they fall within internal and external Nordax over the years to build a sound rules. risk culture. l The third line of defence consists of Internal Audit, which serves on behalf of the Board of Simplifying things, it is only in its lending that Directors and, among other things, regularly Nordax consciously takes risk, in the form of reviews the Senior Management Team as well credit risk. Nordax tries to limit other risks as far as the company’s internal controls, the work as possible and reasonable. This approach to risk of the control functions and the company’s is one reason why Nordax’s business model has risk management. been profitable during both financial crises and in good times. Credit risk management is also The most important risks that Nordax is exposed limited by a conservative credit risk appetite and to are: high demands when it comes to our customers’ creditworthiness, which has led to stable credit CREDIT RISK loss levels that have been below the ambition of Credit risk is defined as the risk that Nordax will 2% over an economic cycle. Nordax’s overall risk suffer a loss because a counterparty does not appetite and risk tolerance is determined by the fulfil its contractual obligations. Board of Directors in the risk and capital policy. Special governing documents are in place as well For Nordax, it is primarily the risk that a customto manage credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk er cannot repay a loan, although credit risk also and operational risks. arises when Nordax invests its liquidity. THREE LINES OF DEFENCE MODEL Nordax was founded by credit risk analysts, To ensure that it effectively manages risk conand the low risk tolerance that distinguishes its sistent with the risk culture and that good interlending is based on many years of experience nal governance and control are in place, Normaintaining low credit losses and sustainable dax has established the three lines of defence profitability over time. model. The three lines of defence are designed to establish robust risk management with clearly Nordax’s credit risk policy sets out the basic redelegated responsibility within operations. The quirements for those who Nordax wants to lend three lines of defence are also an effective way money to – high creditworthiness and low risk. to manage the increasing regulatory requireWithin the framework of these basic requirements Nordax faces in practically every part of ments, loan officers have personal lending limits its business as well as ensure that internal rules based on the officer’s experience with credit are being followed. assessments. Decisions on the highest amounts that Nordax offers are made by Nordax’s most senior credit officers. 28 RISK MANAGEMENT Credit risk also means managing customers who, liabilities in the same currency. Nordax maintains for various reasons, are unable to pay. Nordax’s open currency positions to protect its capital claims department works proactively to take adequacy ratio against changes in foreign exresponsibility for customers at risk of default change rates. and to help them. GLOBAL FACTORS This combination of high creditworthiness 2016 was a turbulent year globally with political requirements and quick and effective responses and economic turmoil: Brexit, terrorist attacks, when a customer incurs problem is an important the failed coup in Turkey, the war in Syria and reason why Nordax has maintained low credit the presidential election in the US, to name just losses over a long period. a few. For Sweden, 2016 was distinguished by a continued focus on household debt. In FebruOPERATIONAL RISKS ary the Riksbank cut the repo rate by 0.15 basis Operational risks are defined as the risk of losses points to -0,50%, and since then the repo rate due to inappropriate or faulty internal processes, has stayed unchanged. In October the Swedish human error, system deficiencies and external government introduced measures to achieve a events, including legal and compliance risks. more responsible market for consumer credit. These measures take aim at so-called high-cost Every part of Nordax’s operations is exposed credit – loans with an effective interest rate to operational risks. The complexity of managof more than 30 percentage points over the ing operational risks has risen in pace with the Swedish Interest Act’s benchmark rate, which increasingly extensive regulatory requirements is currently 0 – and include an interest rate cap, on banks and because of the fact that Nordax is special marketing disclosure requirements and growing. To manage and minimise operational tighter rules on credit assessments. Nordax is risks, we use several different tools and processpositive to the initiative and welcomes policy es such as self-assessments, incident manageinitiatives to eliminate rogue operators and ment, continuity and crisis management, control strengthen consumer protection. testing and the process to approve new products, services and processes. Despite the relatively eventful year, Nordax has not seen a significant impact on its credit In 2016 we identified and documented our signifquality, and during the year the credit loss level icant processes, in part to identify operational was stable at 1.4%. Nordax’s strong customer risks and the key controls in them. The incident base has historically been shown to be resilient reporting process has been made more efficient to economic slowdowns and increased unemand system support is now in place that allows ployment. Nordax’s diversified funding structure all employees to conveniently report incidents. is also a form of built-in resilience to economic slowdowns that facilitates funding even during LIQUIDITY AND MARKET RISK difficult times. (INTEREST RATE, PRICE AND CURRENCY RISKS) CAPITAL AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that Nordax Nordax shall at all times be well-capitalised. The will fail to fulfil payment obligations at maturity Board of Directors has established a capital tarwithout a significant increase in the cost of obget to satisfy the minimum regulatory requiretaining means of payment. Market risk is defined ment and buffer requirements and to manage as the risk that Nordax’s results or equity will risk exposures in situations of financial stress. decrease due to changes in risk factors in the Nordax conducts stress tests through a continfinancial markets. Market risk includes interest uing capital evaluation process to ensure that rate risk, price risk and currency risk. it sets aside sufficient capital for unexpected losses. In addition to these reserves, we maintain Liquidity risk is managed through a well-balcapital buffers pursuant to the Basel III regulatoanced combination of assets and liabilities and ry framework. At year-end our total capital ratio distribution of maturities and currencies. Price was 16.0% (14.6), compared to a capital requirerisk is limited by investing only in stable counment of 13.1% and a capital target of 14.6%. The terparties with strong credit ratings and for Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 14,0% relatively short terms. Interest rate risk is limited (12.6), compared to capital requirement of 9.1% by matching the interest fixing periods for assets and the capital target of minimum 12%. For more and liabilities. The impact of changes in foreign information on our capital adequacy, see page exchange rates is limited by matching assets and 18. 29 NORDAX SHARES Nordax shares Nordax was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s quisitions of companies or businesses. In August Main Market in June 2015. Nordax shares the Board of Directors resolved to repurchase a are traded under the ticker NDX. During maximum of 455,000 shares prior to 2017 Annual the year the value of the Nordax share General Meeting to satisfy obligations resulting from the allotment of shares to employees within rose by 1.5%. Earnings per share were the framework of the Group’s long-term incentive 4.02 SEK (1.76). The Board of Directors plans for 2015 and 2016. During the year 100,000 proposes to the Annual General Meeting shares were repurchased to satisfy obligations a dividend of 1.60 SEK per share (0.50). from the incentive plan for 2015. SHARE CAPITAL TRADING Nordax’s share capital amounts to about 111 MSEK, At year-end Nordax had a market capitalisation of divided into 110.9 million shares, i.e., a share capSEK 5.7 billion and the share price was 51.75 SEK. ital of 1 SEK per share. During 2016 the OMX Stockholm 30 Index gained 4.9%, while the OMX Stockholm Banks Index rose HOLDING OF TREASURY SHARES 17.8%. Nordax’s share price increased by 1.4% durNordax’s Annual General Meeting authorised the ing the year, generating a total return including the Board of Directors to decide to acquire and transdividend paid of 2.5% for 2016. The highest price fer own shares. The holding of treasury shares paid during the year was 57.00 SEK. The lowest may not exceed 10% of all shares in the company. price paid was 35.30 SEK. The average daily turnThe purpose of the authorisation was to enable over on Nasdaq Stockholm was 284,000 shares. the company to satisfy its obligations resulting from the allotment of shares to employees within Nordax’s shares are also traded on other marketthe framework of the Group’s long-term incentive places such as BATS CXE, BATS BXE, Turquoise plans. The repurchased shares can also be used and Aquis. Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for as payment or financing for possible future ac87% of turnover in 2016. SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT Nordax OMX 30 SEK 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 31 Dec 2015 30 Jun 2016 31 Dec 2016 30 NORDAX SHARES DIVIDEND INFORMATION Nordax’s Board of Directors has adopted a diviNordax shall provide its shareholders as well as dend policy that approximately 40% of net profit analysts and other stakeholder’s prompt, accufor the year year shall be distributed. For 2016 rate, consistent and timely information on the the Board is proposing a dividend of 1.60 SEK bank’s operations and financial position. Transper share (0.50 SEK per share in 2015, which parency and openness foster an understanding was paid for the second half of 2015). The proof Nordax’s financial reporting, strategy and the posed dividend corresponds to a pay-out ratio decisions that have been made. Nordax’s annual of 40% and a total dividend of 177.1 MSEK. report and interim reports are available at www.nordaxgroup.com. OWNERSHIP As of 31 December 2016 Nordax had 4,302 INSTITUTIONS AND ANALYSTS shareholders (3,182), of whom 76% had holdCOVERING NORDAX ings of 1,000 shares or less. Just over 3.6% of ABG Sundal Collier, Carnegie, Citigroup, Morgan the shareholders together owned nearly 96% Stanley, Nordea, Pareto Securities, SEB (new in of the company. Nordax’s largest shareholder 2016) and Sparebank 1 Markets (new in 2016), as of 31 December 2016 was funds advised by has coverage on the Nordax share. Vision Capital with a holding of 13.6% 1 (36.1). Vision Capital has been the largest owner since At the end of 2016 four institutions had a buy 2010 and began to reduce its holding when the recommendations and four institutions had a company went public in 2015. Foreign ownership neutral recommendation, on the Nordax share. decreased in 2016 to 37.7% (62.0) at year-end, mainly due to Vision Capital’s reduced holding and increased Swedish institutional ownership. OWNERSHIP CATEGORIES %, as of 31 December 2016 SWEDISH OWNERS PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS 13% (13%) SWEDISH INSTITUTIONAL OWNERS FOREIGN 50% OWNERS (25%) 38% (62%) 1 Vision Capital sold its remaining shares in February 2017. 31 NORDAX SHARES STATISTICS NORDAX SHARE AND OWNERSHIP NORDAX 15 LARGEST OWNERS 1 Share of votes and OWNERSHIP BY COUNTRY 3, % Share of votes 31 December 2016 capital, % 31 December 2016 and capital, % Vision Capital Partners 2 13.6 Sweden 62.6 SEB Fonder incl. Lux 10.2 United Kingdom 24.6 Swedbank Robur Fonder 9.5 USA 4.6 Carnegie Fonder 9.1 Germany 3.1 Öresund, Investment AB 4.9 Luxemburg 2.3 Handelsbanken Fonder 3.9 Others 2.8 Lannebo fonder 3.5 Allianz Global Investors 3.0 Vanguard 2.8 DATA PER SHARE 2016 2015 Morten Falch (CEO and Founder) 2.4 Earnings per share, SEK 4.02 1.76 JP Morgan Asset Management 2.1 Adjusted Earnings per Share, SEK 3.58 2.76 TIAA Teachers Advisors 1.9 Equity per share, SEK 19.2 15.7 Per Bodlund (Founder) 1.7 Dividend per share, SEK 1.60 4 0.50 4 Mats Lagerqvist (Founder) 1.7 Payout-ratio, % 40 4 44 4 Olle Nordlöf (Founder) 1.7 Dividend yield, % 3.1 1.0 15 largest owners 72.0 Number of outstanding shares, millions 110.8 110.9 Share price at year-end, SEK 51.75 51.0 OWNERSHIP Share price/Equity per share 2.7 3.2 STRUCTURE 3 Number of Share of votes 31 December 2016 shareholders and capital, % 1-500 2,628 0.4 SHARE STATISTICS 5 2016 2015 501-1,000 653 0.5 Highest share price, SEK 57.0 52.0 1,001 – 5,000 683 1.5 Lowest share price, SEK 35.3 35.1 5,001 – 10,000 114 0.8 Share price on 31 December, SEK 51.75 51.00 10,001 – 15,000 35 0.4 Turnover of shares per trading day, 15,001 – 20,000 33 0.5 millions 0.3 0.4 20,001 156 95.9 Turnover value traded shares per Totalt 4,302 100 trading day, MSEK 12.7 18.5 Market capitalisation, 31 December, SEKbn 5.7 5.6 OWNERSHIP CATEGORIES 3, % Share of votes Share of votes and capital, % and capital, % 31 December 2016 2016 2015 Foreign Owners 37.7 62.0 Swedish Owners 62.3 38.0 Legal entities 49.8 25.6 Private persons 12.6 12.6 1 Source; Holdings Modular Finance AB. Data from e.g. Euroclear, Morningstar and SFSA 2 Vision Capital sold its remaining shares in February 2017 3 Source; Euroclear 4 Proposal for Dividend 2016. The Dividend for 2015 related to second half of 2015 5 Source; Nasdaq Stockholm 32 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Nordax Group AB (publ) BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Content Board of Directors’ Report Group Structure and Owners 35 Nature and direction of the business 35 Market and competitors 36 Significant events since inception in 2003 37 Multi-year review 37 Major events 2016 38 Income statement and Key Ratios 39 Financial results in 2016 40 Lending volumes 41 Funding 42 Financial position 43 Segments 44 Proposed dividend 46 Financial Targets 46 Employees 46 Changes in exchange rates 46 Significant events after the end of the reporting period 47 34 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Group structure and owners Nordax Group AB (publ) is the parent company of the funding of personal loans within the framework of the Nordax Group. The company’s operational subsidiary Group’s funding structure. is Nordax Bank AB (publ). Nordax Bank has been licensed to conduct banking business since 2014. NorNordax Group AB (publ) was listed on Nasdaq Stockdax Nordic AB (publ), Nordax Nordic 3 AB (publ) and holm’s Main Market in 2015. The largest owner at yearNordax Sverige 4 AB (publ) are registered as financial end was Vision Capital Partners with a total holding of institutions at the Swedish Financial Supervisory 13.6% 1 (36.1). For more information on ownership, see Authority and are used solely for the acquisition and page 32. Nature and direction of the business Nordax is a leading niche bank with operations in Sweden, The age of the loan portfolio affects Nordax’s credit Norway, Finland, Germany and Denmark, offering perlosses. All customers generally pay for the first six sonal loans and savings products. The Bank currently months after the loan has been granted. The first has around 120,000 active loan customers and 28,000 credit losses start to appear after six months, and active savings customers. credit losses normally reach their maximum level 18-36 months after granting. As soon as a loan falls in Nordax offers large personal loans to individuals who, arrears, Nordax makes a provision based on a dynamic based on the absence of historical losses, are deemed country-specific model founded on empirical experito pose a low risk and have high creditworthiness. ence. When the loan is past due more than 180 days, Nordax writes down the carrying amount to the recovLoan customers are typically middle-aged professionerable value, which consists of an estimated future als with incomes above or in line with the national avercash flow, discounted by the effective interest rate on age. They are also close to or above the national averthe loan at the time of impairment. ages for home ownership and do not have a record of non-payment. Nordax also offers savings products Payments received on loans past due more than 180 covered by the state deposit insurance scheme. days are included in the calculation of Nordax’s net credit losses and therefore affect Nordax’s profit. NorNordax aims for controlled growth of the loan portfodax has benefitted from effective debt collection syslio while retaining a focus on customers’ creditworthitems and has obtained significant recoveries on loans ness. The risk assessment process at Nordax begins that have been past due more than 180 days. with designing the features of the loan product and the marketing campaigns, as this has a strong bearing on Nordax’s processes are based on effective data manthe final credit risk in the loan portfolio. Targeted maragement, statistical analysis, a “test and learn” method keting is one of Nordax’s core areas of expertise and and quantitative decision-making. This approach is covers the company’s most important marketing chanapplied throughout the operation, e.g., in marketing, nels such as addressed direct mail, unaddressed direct credit risk assessment, collection and financing. Nordmail and marketing through partners. By using sophisax’s decision analysis and quantitative modelling are ticated statistical methods, Nordax is able to target notable for their strong analytical know-how, which attractive customer segments by excluding from its contributes to effective marketing and higher credit marketing those segments that are unlikely to apply or quality. qualify for a loan. This leads to greater effectiveness in marketing and a higher proportion of approved loan Nordax operates from a single office site in Stockholm applications. Targeted marketing accounted for 52% of where all the employees and functions are located. Nordax’s new lending in 2016. Nordax’s marketing This makes it easy to expand the operation cost effecchannels also sell to existing customers and marketing tively and promotes exchange of information between channels that are not targeted, including credit intervarious functions and markets. Centralised corporate mediaries and online channels. In 2016, 20% of granted governance and risk management, as well as the cenloans came through existing customers, 23% through tralised control functions, enable Nordax to monitor credit intermediaries and 5% through online applicainternal governance and control closely and effections. tively. This also makes it easier to allocate resources. Before a loan is approved, Nordax conducts a thorNordax’s diversified funding consists of asset backed ough credit assessment of each application in accordsecurities, secured funding from international banks, ance with credit policies and applicable laws and regudeposits from the general public, senior unsecured lations. The credit assessment process comprises a bonds, equity and subordinated liabilities. Nordax’s combination of policy rules, referral rules, internal asset backed securities require accessible and detailed credit rating models and a calculation of affordability. information on the loans in the portfolio and that the The maximum amount of loan offered to a customer is loans are performing well. The diversified funding calculated using a credit limit matrix based on the cusreduces Nordax’s liquidity risk and means that it is able tomer’s creditworthiness. to create a larger and more optimised funding mix over time. 1 Vision Capital sold its remaining shares in February 2017. 35 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT The interest rates Nordax charges its customers are charges loan customers is instead tied to a benchmark variable. The customer margin in Norway and Sweden rate, i.e., EURIBOR and CIBOR. When benchmark rates is related to the cost of funding, and interest rates paid change, the rate change is reflected in both assets and by loan customers are adjusted when the cost of fundliabilities, leading to stable net interest margins. Noring changes. Nordax has made a policy decision only dax sets the interest rate on new loans based on varito adjust levels of interest on the Norwegian and ous factors beyond cost of funding and benchmark Swedish loan portfolios if Nordax’s funding costs rates, e.g., credit rating of the customer and the size of increase or decrease by more than 50 basis points. In the loan. Finland, Germany and Denmark the rate Nordax Market and competitors An important driver of development in the personal presence in the personal loan market. One obstacle is loan market is macroeconomic development. Ecoeconomies of scale that to a great extent is a feature of nomic growth such as rising GDP, rising housing prices, the personal loan market. The strict and complicated higher disposable incomes and low unemployment rules and regulations for credit institutions require the usually drive household optimism, private consumer players to create strong functions and systems for spending and demand for personal loans. legal issues, compliance and finance, necessitating significant investments and expertise. When such funcThe personal loan market is characterised by a high tions have been set up, they can normally handle large level of competition and fragmentation. Nordax’s comloan volumes, creating significant economies of scale petitors can be principally divided into two groups: and operational leveraging effects. full-service banks and niche banks. Nordax feels that the niche banks (of which Nordax is one) are taking New players also have to meet increasing, and increasmarket share and that they are Nordax’s closest direct ingly complicated, requirements and provisions, e.g., competitors. The niche banks have product offerings on capital adequacy and liquidity. Compliance requires similar to that of Nordax and offer similar interest a large amount of capital, a strong management focus rates, which are generally higher than the interest rates and sufficient revenue to invest in functions for comoffered by full-service banks. One of the things that pliance and risk control. separates niche banks is which customer groups they serve, in which channels they reach potential customThe ability to make credit assessments requires proven ers and how they finance their lending. models, which in turn depend on access to extensive historical information on the loans. The development The full-service banks offer various secured or unseof these models requires time and experience in lendcured personal loan products, of which unsecured pering, which is an entry barrier to new players. The risk of sonal loans account for a fairly limited share. Full-sermaking incorrect credit decisions is higher when a vice banks have historically had a relatively limited player has established a presence on a new market focus on the personal loan market, with the result that without previous experience or historical results. their offerings in the area are not particularly well known. Their limited focus has led to new players such New players often have limited access to funding due as the niche banks being able to establish a presence to their limited history with regard to credit assessin the market. Personal loan customers often have a ment, financial stability and compliance with regulatendency to differentiate their personal loans from tratory capital requirements. New establishment thereditional bank products such as mortgages and debit fore requires a significant contribution of capital, cards. leading to low return on equity until loan funding has been obtained. There are several barriers to entry that make it difficult for new players of limited size or limited experience of operating in a regulated environment to establish a 36 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Significant events since 2003 2003 Nordax is founded by risk analysts with exten2009 Nordax introduces savings accounts for private sive experience in consumer lending, with customers in Norway. support from Palamon Capital Partners. 2010 The former majority owner Palamon Capital 2004 Nordax starts offering loans to individuals in Partners sells their ownership to funds advised Sweden under the supervision of the Swedish by Vision Capital Partners. Financial Supervisory Authority. 2011 Nordax starts offering savings accounts for 2005 Nordax expands its loan operation to Norway. private customers in Finland. 2006 Nordax launches its operation in Denmark. As 2012 Nordax decides to start a loan operations in there was no possibility of effective collection of Germany. past due loans, Nordax decides not to resume its new lending operation in Denmark after the 2013 Nordax issues senior unsecured bonds denomiglobal financial crisis of 2008. The Danish loan nated in SEK, which were listed on Nasdaq portfolio is being amortised according to plan. Stockholm. 2006 Nordax issues its first asset backed securities, 2014 Nordax receives a banking licence and the loan denominated in EUR and listed on the Irish portfolio passes SEK 10 billion in loan volume. Stock Exchange (ISE). 2015 Nordax listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. 2007 Loan operation started in Finland. 2016 Nordax launches retail deposit products in 2008 Nordax starts offering retail deposits in Sweden. Germany and joins the UN’s Sustainability initiative Global Compact. Multi-year overview KEY RATIOS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 14.0 12.6 12.3 12.0 10.1 Return on equity. % 23.2 12.9 18.0 17.1 13.4 C/I ratio. % 37.3 54.2 45.3 44.0 46.1 Credit loss level. % 1.4 1.5 1.2 1.4 1.8 Number of employees 1 199 212 187 162 138 Summary of income statements Net interest income 1,100 927 781 629 504 Net commission 16 16 15 15 15 Net profit/loss from financial transactions 60 -55 7 5 45 Other operating income 0 0 0 4 15 Total income 1,176 888 803 653 579 Total operating expenses -439 -481 -364 -287 -267 Credit losses -164 -157 -114 -114 -127 Operating profit 573 250 325 251 185 Tax -127 -55 -71 -49 -49 Net profit/loss for the year 446 195 254 203 136 Summary of balance sheets Lending to credit institutions 1,672 1,810 2,212 1,608 2,546 Lending to the general public 12,794 10,841 10,042 8,393 7,456 Bonds and other fixed income securities 959 1,157 1,585 550 1,991 Intangible assets 305 320 316 330 342 Other assets 43 34 35 29 24 Total assets 15,773 14,162 14,190 10,910 12,359 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,205 2,880 2,259 2,314 1,781 Deposits from the general public 7,141 6,001 6,479 4,753 7,165 Issued securities 2,910 3,187 3,581 2,259 2,033 Other liabilities 150 115 134 99 98 Subordinated liabilities 247 246 199 198 197 Equity 2,120 1,733 1,538 1,287 1,085 Total equity and liabilities 15,773 14,162 14,190 10,910 12,359 1 In 2016 the number of employees is calculated at balance sheet date. The comparative periods have been changed accordingly. 37 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Major events in 2016 Quarter 1 Quarter 3 As part of its diversified funding structure, Nordax The Board of Directors decided to repurchase shares issued 500 MSEK in senior unsecured bonds. in accordance with the authorisation of the Annual General Meeting to satisfy obligations within the scope Nordax began offering retail deposit products to of the long-term management incentive plans for 2015 private customers in Germany, which during the year and 2016. A maximum of 455,000 shares may be become an effective source of funding. repurchased, and during the year 100,000 shares were bought back. Quarter 2 Nordax held its first annual general meeting as a listed Nordax received approval from the Swedish Financial company and among the most important resolutions Supervisory Authority to use the alternative standardwere; ised method for calculating operational risks, which l Approval of a dividend of 0.50 SEK per share improves Nordax’s capital ratios. l Jenny Rosberg was elected as a new Board member Olof Mankert was appointed Chief Risk Officer and a l Approval of Directors’ fee, remuneration guidelines new member of the Senior Management Team. for the CEO and management team, and a longterm management incentive plan for 2016 During the quarter the provision rate for loans past l Authorisation of the Board of Directors to resolve due by more than 180 days was adjusted from 90 to to acquire and transfer own shares 80%. The adjustment was made with the support of additional data. The provision level in Germany The maximum loan amount offered in Finland was remains conservative in relation to the rest of the portraised to 50,000 EUR. The loan offering and loan folio. application process in Finland were simplified and improved, leading to increased new lending from the After approval from the Swedish Financial Supervisory third quarter on. Authority, Nordax merged the two wholly owned holding companies Nordax Group Holding AB and Nordax Customer operations, our units that service customers, Holding AB with Nordax Bank AB (publ). was reorganized from a function-based organisation to a country-based organisation. The new organisation Quarter 4 allows us to better interact with customers while at the The Nomination Committee was appointed. The comsame time giving employees more wide-ranging and position of the committee for the 2017 Annual General stimulating assignments. Meeting is Hans Hedström, Carnegie Fonder (Chairman); Hans Ek, SEB Investment Management and Malin Björkmo, Handelsbanken Fonder. Nordax CFO Camilla Wirth decided to leave Nordax in 2017. Lennart Erlandson, CFO of Skandiabanken was recruited in January 2017. Read more about Lennart on page 47. Nordax joined the world’s largest sustainability initiative – the UN Global Compact. 38 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Consolidated income statement GROUP All amounts in MSEK 2016 2015 Operating income Interest income 1,354 1,260 Interest expense -254 -333 Total net interest income 1,100 927 Commission income 16 16 Net profit from financial transactions 60 -55 Other operating income 0 0 Total operating income 1,176 888 Operating expenses General administrative expenses -291 -261 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -25 -21 Other operating expenses -136 -124 Non-recurring items 13 -75 Total operating expenses -439 -481 Profit before credit losses 737 407 Net credit losses -164 -157 Operating profit 573 250 Tax on profit for the period -127 -55 NET PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD/COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 446 195 KEY FIGURES 1 2016 2015 Income statement Total operating income, MSEK 1,176 888 Adjusted total operating income, MSEK 1,113 943 Operating profit, MSEK 573 250 Adjusted operating profit, MSEK 510 392 Net interest margin, % 9.3 8.9 Profit before credit losses, MSEK 737 407 Net profit, MSEK 446 195 Earnings per share, SEK 4.02 1.76 Adjusted earnings per share, SEK 3.58 2.76 Dividend per share 1 Balance sheet 12,794 10,841 Lending to the general public, MSEK 7,141 6,001 Deposits, MSEK 4,636 4,070 New lending volumes, MSEK KPI Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio % 14.0 12.6 Total capital ratio % 16.0 14.6 Return on equity % 23.2 11.9 Net credit loss level (cost of risk) % 1.4 1.5 Net credit loss level % 1.4 1.5 Cost to income ratio 37.3 54.2 Adjusted cost to income ratio % 27.3 28.5 Adjusted return on tangible equity % 24.6 23.2 Adjusted return on average net loans 4.3 3.8 Exchange rates NOK Income statement (average) 1.02 1.05 NOK Balance sheet (at end of period) 1.06 0.96 EUR Income statement (average) 9.47 9.36 EUR Balance sheet (at end of period) 9.58 9.14 1 See page 108 for definitions of key figures. 39 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Financial results in 2016 Net profit rose to 446 MSEK (195) mainly due to higher Other operating expenses, which largely consist of net interest income, positive FX effects and a nonmarketing costs, increased by 10% to 136 MSEK (124) recurring cost of 75 MSEK in 2015 connected with the as a result of expanded marketing activities, which IPO. Adjusted operating profit increased by 30% to generated higher new lending during the year. Market510 MSEK (392) mainly as a result of improved net ing efficiency, measured as marketing costs in relation interest income. to new lending, improved slightly during the year. Non-recurring items during the period related to the Net interest income increased by 19% to 1,100 MSEK VAT reversal associated with the IPO in 2015 and other (927). Contributing to the increase were higher lendcost reductions related to the IPO. This reduced ing volumes and improved margins on new loans expenses by a total of 13 MSEK. The same period in granted with higher margins relative to the existing 2015 included non-recurring costs of 75 MSEK related portfolio. Net interest income improved in all markets to the IPO. and the net interest margin rose to 9.3% (8.9). Total operating expenses decreased to 439 MSEK Net profit from financial transactions amounted to 60 (481) due to the above-mentioned non-recurring costs MSEK (-55), with a stronger NOK and EUR having a in 2015. positive effect. Nordax has open positions in currencies to protect its capital adequacy ratio from currency The credit loss level improved to 1.4% (1.5). The credit fluctuations. The FX effect on regulatory capital has a loss level fell in Finland and rose slightly in Sweden corresponding impact on profit from financial transacfrom low levels. The credit loss levels in Norway and tions. Germany were stable compared to the previous year. Credit losses remained well below the target of 2% Net commission income, which largely consists of over a business cycle. income from the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI), was stable at 16 MSEK (16). Tax amounted to 127 MSEK (55). The effective tax rate was 22% (22). Total operating income increased by 32% to 1,176 MSEK (888) driven by a larger loan portfolio and The adjusted return on equity excluding intangible higher net interest margins, but also by positive FX assets improved to 24.6% (23.2) despite higher equity. effects. The adjusted return on average net loans was 4.3% (3.8). The adjusted cost to income ratio (rolling 12 months) improved to 27.3% (28.5). General administrative Earnings per share increased to 4.02 SEK (1.76). expenses rose by 11% to 291 MSEK (261). The increase Adjusted earnings per share increased by 29% to was due to larger business volumes, operational 3.58 SEK (2.76). investments, increased regulatory-driven costs and higher provisions for variable remuneration due to the The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual Genimproved result during the year. The focus is on further eral Meeting a dividend of 1.60 SEK per share for 2016 improving the adjusted cost to income ratio (excluding (0.50). marketing costs). The adjustments have been made to show the underlying results of operation, reflecting unchanged exchange rates and excluding non-recurring items principally related to the listing. A bridge between statutory and adjusted figures can be found on page 107. 40 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Lending volumes New lending amounted to 4,636 MSEK in 2016, an In constant currencies growth was 12%. Growth was increase of 14% compared to 2015. good in all markets with the highest relative growth rate in Germany followed by Norway. The loan portfolio grew by 18% to 12,794 MSEK (10,841) compared to the same period in 2015. LOAN PORTOLIO DEVELOPMENT 2012–2016 NEW LENDING 2012-2016 Billion SEK MSEK 4,636 12.8 10.8 3,843 4,070 10.0 3,180 8.4 7.5 2,482 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 41 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Funding Maintaining a diversified funding structure and not At the end of the period nominal funding was as folrelying on a single funding source is a cornerstone of lows: 2,427 MSEK (2,763) in asset backed securities, Nordax’s business model. Nordax uses a mix of asset 500 MSEK (453) in senior unsecured bonds, 3,218 backed securities, senior unsecured bonds, warehouse MSEK (2,891) in warehouse funding facilities provided funding facilities provided by international banks and by international banks and 7,135 MSEK (5,991) in deposits from the public. Nordax offers attractive deposits from the public. deposit products with competitive interest rates to customers in all four core markets and in three differNordax has robust liquidity that exceeds current and ent currencies: SEK, NOK and EUR. expected future regulatory requirements. The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), which reflects the short-term Nordax’s funding costs fell in 2016, which benefitted liquidity risk, was 553%, compared with a requirement our existing Swedish customers through two rate of at least 70% in 2016. Nordax’s net stable funding adjustments in the first half-year and our Norwegian ratio (NSFR), which essentially measures more longcustomers through one adjustment. One reason for term structural liquidity risk, was 127%, compared to the lower funding costs was that Nordax during the the future requirement of at least 100% from 2018. year issued a 3-year, 500 MSEK senior unsecured bond to replace a maturing bond. During the year Nordax Nordax had a liquidity reserve of 2,189 MSEK (2,552) at renegotiated the warehouse funding facilities pro31 December 2016. Of these investments, 56% (55) was vided by international banks, which also helped to in Nordic banks, 9% (16) in Swedish covered bonds and reduce funding costs. 35% (29) in Swedish municipal bonds. All investments had credit ratings ranging from AAA to A+ from All retail deposit products are covered by the Swedish Standard & Poor’s, with an average rating of AA. The state deposit insurance scheme up to an equivalent of average maturity was 43 (48) days. All bank holdings 950,000 SEK per depositor. Nordax offers attractive are immediately available and all securities are eligible deposit products with competitive interest rates that for refinancing with central banks. reflect general interest rates as well as Nordax’s assessment of the need for funding through deposits. Lending to credit institutions, which corresponds to In Sweden, Norway and Finland Nordax offers savings cash at bank, decreased slightly during the year to with no fixed term. In Germany Nordax launched retail 1,672 MSEK (1,810), of which 437 MSEK (597) was deposit products in 2016. In the German market Norpledged cash holdings for the funding structure and dax offers 1and 2-year fixed rate accounts. the rest was cash liquidity. Inflows and outflows of deposits from the general pubTotal assets at 31 December 2016 amounted to lic are managed by adjusting interest rates. Nordax 15,773 MSEK (14,162). markets its savings products through online services that compare different saving offerings and through savings cooperations with Avanza in Sweden and Raisin in Germany. 42 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Financial position Equity generation remained strong as a result of the The Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement is comhigher profit and total equity grew to 2,120 MSEK prised of the Common Equity Tier 1 Minimum Require(1,733 at 31 December 2015). ment of 4.5%, the Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.5%, 1.1% for the Countercyclical Capital Buffer and 1.0% for REGULATORY CAPITAL Pillar II buffers. The countercyclical buffer is calculated As of 31 December the total capital ratio was 16.0% as a weighted average of the required level for each (14.6). The improvement during the year is due to the country’s portfolio. solid return Nordax generated and because the method used to calculate operational risk was The risk exposure amount increased to 11,714 MSEK changed during the year. The method was switched (10,834), of which 10,208 MSEK (8,745) relates to from the basic indicator approach to the alternative credit risk, 752 MSEK (624) to market risk and 754 standardised approach, which led to a lower risk expoMSEK (1,465) to operational risk. Nordax uses the sure amount and lower capital requirement for operastandardised approach to measure credit risk, which tional risks. The capital ratio includes a dividend provimeans a 75% risk weight for household exposures that sion equal to 40% of net profit. are not past due and a 100% risk weight for past due household exposures. The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 14.0% (12.6% as of 31 December 2015), compared to an estiNordax’s leverage ratio improved and at year-end mated requirement of 9.1% including the buffer amounted to 10.8% (9.9). requirement within Pillar 2 and the target of at least 12%. RISK EXPOSURE AND CAPITAL RATIOS ACCORDING TO BASEL III 2016 2015 Risk exposure amount, MSEK 11,714 10,834 Total Common Equity Tier 1 capital 1,640 1,369 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio % 14.0 12.6 Tier 1 capital ratio % 14.0 12.6 Total capital ratio % 16.0 14.6 Leverage ratio % 10.8 9.9 Liquidity Coverage Ratio % 553 676 Net stable funding ratio % 127 127 1 See page 108 for definitions of key figures. Cash flow analysis The cash flow for the year was -138 MSEK (-402). The positive cash flow was mainly attributable to that sale of bonds and other fixed income securities Cash flow from operating activities increased during exceeded the investments in bonds and other fixed the year to 2 MSEK (-1,334). The main items within cash income securities. flow from operating activities were operating profit and the increase in lending and deposits to the general The Cash flow from financing activities was negative public. In 2015 the cash flow was negative as an effect for the year and amounted to -325 MSEK (531). The of new lending increasing and at the same deposits negative cash flow was due to that repayment of decreased. issued bonds exceeded the volume of new issued bonds. The positive cash flow in 2015 was mainly The cash flow from investing activities was lower than related to an increase in liabilities to credit institutions. last year and amounted to 185 MSEK (401) for the year. For more information on cash flow see page 70. 43 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Segment SWEDEN 2016 2015 Total net interest income 366 312 Net interest margin % 8.7 7.9 Net credit losses -51 -40 Net credit loss level (cost of risk) % 1.2 1.0 Lending, end of period, MSEK 4,419 4,025 New lending volume, MSEK 1,598 1,280 Portfolio growth, MSEK 394 145 Growth % 9.8 3.7 Sweden was Nordax’s first market, where we started The net interest margin for the period improved to our lending operation in 2004 and the deposit opera8.7% (7.9). The improvement was driven by higher tion in 2008. The total number of loan customers in margins on new lending thanks to lower funding costs. Sweden is slightly over 41,000, the total number of Lending rates for existing loan customers were deposit customers is nearly 16,000 and the average reduced twice during the year by 0.5 percentage loan in Sweden is about SEK 150,000. Our loan cuspoints each time due to lower funding costs. tomers have an average income of just over SEK 30,000 per month, compared to the national average Credit quality remained solid and the credit loss level of SEK 27 000; 53% of loan customers own their own increased slightly to 1.2% (1.0). home and their average age is 53. The loan portfolio in Sweden grew by 10% in 2016 to 4,419 MSEK. New lending increased by 25% to 1,598 MSEK compared to 2015. NORWAY 2016 2015 Total net interest income 436 374 Net interest margin % 9.3 9.3 Net credit losses -81 -70 Net credit loss level (cost of risk) % 1.7 1.7 Lending, end of period, MSEK 5,218 4,125 New lending volume, MSEK 1,966 1,720 Portfolio growth, MSEK 1,093 191 of which FX effects 492 -387 Growth excluding FX effects, % 14.6 14.7 Nordax started its lending operation in Norway in gian market remained high during the year and new 2005 and the deposit operation in 2009. The total lending increased by 16% compared to the previous number of loan customers in Norway was just over year to 1,921 MNOK. 38,000 at year-end and the number of deposit customers nearly 7,000. The average loan in Norway is The net interest margin was stable compared to 2015 NOK 186,000. Our loan customers have an average at 9.3% (9.3). Lending rates for existing customers in income of just over NOK 39,000 per month, compared Norway were reduced once during the year by 0.5 perto the national average of NOK 43,000; 76% own their centage points due to lower funding costs. Margins on own home and their average age is 50. new lending remain higher than the portfolio margin. Lending rates on the existing portfolios in Sweden and The Norwegian loan portfolio performed strongly durNorway are adjusted when Nordax’s funding costs ing the year with stable margins and stable credit risk. change beyond a specific level. The loan portfolio amounted to 5,218 MSEK, an increase of 1,093 MSEK or 15% compared to 31 DecemCredit quality remained strong during the year and the ber 2015 in constant currency. Demand in the Norwenet credit loss level was stable at 1.7% (1.7) for 2016. 44 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINLAND 2016 2015 Total net interest income 229 199 Net interest margin % 10.8 10.9 Net credit losses -9 -27 Net credit loss level (cost of risk) % 0,4 1,5 Lending, end of period, MSEK 2,262 1,964 New lending volume, MSEK 706 702 Portfolio growth, MSEK 298 276 of which FX effects 104 -82 Growth excluding FX effects, % 9.9 21.2 Nordax started its lending operation in Finland in 2007 stant currency compared to the same period in 2015. and the deposit operation in 2011. The total number of New lending in local currency was stable compared to loan customers in Finland was nearly 28,000 at yearthe previous year. end and the number of deposit customers just over 1,700. The average loan in Finland is nearly EUR The net interest margin decreased slightly compared 13,000. Our loan customers have an average income of to the same period in 2015 to 10.8%. about EUR 3,900 per month, compared to the national average of EUR 3,300; 88% own their own home and Credit quality remained strong and the net credit loss their average age is 53. level decreased to 0.4% (1.5) compared to 2015. Credit quality improved in Finland with higher recoveries and The loan portfolio in Finland amounted to 2,262 MSEK lower provisions due to a stable trend in claims. at year-end, an increase of 298 MSEK or 10% in conGERMANY 2016 2015 Total net interest income 61 32 Net interest margin % 9.3 7.6 Net credit losses -23 -15 Net credit loss level (cost of risk) % 3.5 3.6 Lending, end of period, MSEK 761 548 New lending volume, MSEK 366 368 Portfolio growth, MSEK 213 254 of which FX effects 35 -16 Growth excluding FX effects, % 32.5 91.9 Germany is Nordax’s youngest market. Nordax started level. Direct mail is the only channel used in the Gerits lending operation in Germany in 2012 and the man market to reach potential customers. deposit operation in 2016. The total number of loan customers in Germany was nearly 8,000 at year-end Net interest margin increased to 9.3% (7.6) compared and the number of deposit customers nearly 4,000. to the full-year 2015. The increase was an effect of The average loan in Germany is about EUR 13,000. higher rates on new lending as well as lower funding Our loan customers have an average income of costs. EUR 3,700 per month, compared to the national average of EUR 3 100 ; 40% own their own home and their The net credit loss level was 3.5% (3.6) during the year. average age is 51. The provision rate for loans past due by more than 180 days was adjusted during the year from 90% to 80%. The loan portfolio amounted to 761 MSEK at year-end, The adjustment was made with the support of addian increase of 32% in constant currencies compared to tional data and after careful evaluation of the recovery the same period in 2015. New lending was stable comprocess. pared to 2015 at 39 MEUR. Provision levels in Germany remain conservative comNew lending in Germany has been stable and conpared to the total provision level of 62% for Nordax’s trolled and the net interest margin is at an attractive overall portfolio. 45 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Dividend proposal The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual GenNo dividend will be paid in relation to the company’s eral Meeting a dividend of 1.60 SEK (0.50) per share, own holding of shares. The proposed record day is which represents 40% of earnings per share for 2016. Tuesday, 2 May and Euroclear expects to distribute the The total proposed dividend amounts to 177.1 MSEK. dividend to shareholders on Friday, 5 May 2017. Financial targets Nordax established financial targets in connection with the IPO in 2015. All the targets were reached in 2016. The financial targets are: TARGET OUTCOME Maintain a return through the cycle above 3 % on net average loans 4,3% Maintaining a payout ratio of approximately 40% of net profit 40% Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio above 12%, Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 14.0% a total capital ratio above 14% and Total capital ratio 16.0% a buffer of at least 1.5 percentage points above the requirements 4.9 percentage points above the requirement for Common Equity for Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio Tier 1 capital ratio and 2.9 percentage points above the requirement for total capital ratio Employees The average number of employees during the year was employees on long-term sick leave was 4.4% (4.3). Staff 213 (208), of whom 136 (136) were women and 77 (72) turnover was 17.1% (6.8) during the year. men. The number of employees at year-end was 260 (250), of whom 206 (217) were permanent staff and 54 Nordax aims for an even gender distribution and equal (33) were temporary. The number of full-time equivaopportunities for all irrespective of background, genlent employees was 199 (212). Women made up 67% of der, religion or sexual orientation. Staff surveys are conthe employees at year-end and men 33%. The proporducted regularly, and the results are used to develop tion of women on the Senior Management Team was the business and evaluate managers. Nordax wants to 50% at year-end. contribute to a learning workplace where everyone is given an opportunity to develop. Short-term absence due to illness was 2.9% (3.3) during the year and total absence due to illness including Changes in exchange rates Nordax’s results are affected by changes in exchange To ensure a capital adequacy ratio in line with the comrates between SEK, NOK. EUR and DKK. The exchange pany’s financial targets despite exchange rate fluctuarates affect the conversion of receivables and liabilities tions, Nordax has open currency positions. As a result to SEK. Nordax’s policy is to limit the effects of fluctuof the open currency positions, the effects of changes ations in exchange rates by matching assets and liabiliin exchanges rates are offset in the statement of finanties in the same currency. Nordax also uses derivatives cial position by the corresponding effect that the to limit the effect. Nordax does not use derivatives to changes have on Nordax’s income statement. This limit the effects of changes in exchanges rates on effect is recognised in net profit from financial transfuture income or expenditure. actions. NORDAX’S EXCHANGE-RATE SENSITIVITY Currency Change Impact on Nordax’s operating profit NOK +/5% +/18 MSEK EUR +/5% +/8 MSEK DKK +/5% +/0 MSEK 46 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Significant Events after the end of the reporting period Lennart Erlandson was recruited as the new Chief She has previously held senior positions at Nordea, Financial Officer (CFO). He was most recently CFO at Nets and Sparebank 1 Forsikring in Norway and held Skandiabanken, prior to which he had a long career at several board assignments, among them at Visa BanSEB Kort, most recently as Head of Finance & Operakegruppe AS, MasterCard Forum, Scandpower IT AS tions, CFO. Lennart begins his new position in April 2017. and Visa Norge AS. The Nomination Committee conOn 14 February 2017 Vision Capital sold its remaining siders Susanne Hannestad to have broad and relevant shares in Nordax to Swedish and international instituexperience of the Norwegian financial market. She also tional investors. After the sale Lannebo Fonder, has experience in strategic planning and creation of Öresund and JP Morgan Asset Management disclosed effective governance and internal control, as well as that they had increased their holdings to more than 5% from digital change of business models and will help to of the number of shares in the company. diversify and broaden the Board of Directors. On 22 February 2017 Nordax announced that the NomNordax has reached an agreement on cooperation ination Committee for the 2017 Annual General Meetwith the credit management services company Lining is proposing the election of a new Board member, dorff to continuously sell non-performing loans in Susanne Hannestad, as well as the re-election of Board Sweden, Norway and Finland. The first sale is expected members Christian Beck, Arne Bernroth, Katarina during the second quarter of 2017. The sales are Bonde, Morten Falch, Andrew Rich, Jenny Rosberg expected to have a marginal but positive effect on and Synnöve Trygg. It also recommended Arne BernNordax results for 2017. As from the second quarter of roth for re-election as Chairman of the Board. Board 2017, up to half of the non-performing loans that are member Hans Larsson declined re-election and has overdue more than 90 days will be sold to Lindorff (so requested to step down from the Board effective called forward-flows). By selling the non-performing immediately. The reason is that there is a risk of a conloans, the cash flow from such loans is accelerated and flict of interest between Nordax’s operations and Nordax’s risk exposure is reduced. Nordax has historiNordnet, where Hans Larsson was recently elected cally not sold non-performing loans and the existing Chairman of the Board. portfolio of non-performing loans is not part of the cooperation. Susanne Hannestad, born 1961, is the founder and CEO of Fintech Mundi AS and Bozan AS and Chairman of Payr AS, VIO Media AS and Førstehjelperen AS. 47 CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS Chairman’s comments The past year was an eventful one both geopolitically Hans has been a valuable contributor in the Board and for Nordax as a company. The concerns we felt since he was elected during 2015. heading into the Brexit referendum and the US election and their potential impact on the financial marThe Board’s work during the year was focused on kets fortunately so far did not come to pass, though the strategic agenda, including how digitisation can we took measures early on to manage any market make us more efficient and improve how our customchanges and currency fluctuations. In our work, the ers experience their contacts with us. We also spent Board of Directors is always planning to minimise the a great deal of time on our expansion in Germany, risk of the improbable. where we have tried to balance risk with opportunity. We are feeling more secure about our development in Regulatory pressure for change in the financial Germany, which was manifested during the year by a market remains great, with many new and extensive reduction in provisions levels for bad debts. regulations at a national and European level. During the year, for example, new rules were implemented In 2015 the Board of Directors initiated a structured on market abuse and financial recovery plans. The approach to sustainability. Two milestones during the Board of Directors and the company meet regularly year were joining the UN Global Compact and the with outside advisors to better understand and be inclusion of a sustainability report in this year’s annual aware of the requirements we are subject to and the report in accordance with the international GRI G4 opportunities that the new regulations present to us. framework. Two of the more comprehensive future regulations we prepared for during the year were the new EU General Nordax’s ownership base has changed and the preData Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the second vious principal owner, the British private equity firm Payment Services Directive (PSD 2), both of which Vision Capital, sold its remaining shares in February come into force in 2018. The new accounting standard 2017. As a result, we have added many new shareIFRS 9, which, among other things, regulates the recholders, both in Sweden and internationally. We are ognition of credit losses, was also given a great deal pleased to be able to attract new owners and will do of consideration. We have come quite far in impleour best to meet their expectations. menting the new standard thanks to our streamlined business model, statistical expertise and centralised We are also pleased to propose a dividend of 1.60 SEK data storage. per share, in line with our financial target of a dividend pay-out ratio of 40%. It is a strength to be able to do During the second half of the year the Board of Directhis and at the same time continue to build our capital tors, through the Audit Committee, devoted considerbuffer against the regulatory requirements we face. able time to evaluating a number of audit firms, as the We have a strong financial position and an increased new legislation requires a rotation of auditors after a buffer, which creates a good margin to finance future certain time. The Nomination Committee has issued a growth and handle any volatility and changes in future recommendation to the 2017 Annual General Meeting regulatory requirements. for election of auditors based on the Audit Committee’s thorough evaluation. Öhrlings PricewaterhouseI would like to express my warmest thanks to Nordax’s Coopers has been Nordax’s auditor since the beginmanagement and staff for their excellent work during ning and over the years has excellently supported the the year. As Chairman of the Board, I am proud of the company in its development, not least in connection tremendous commitment I see to grow Nordax into an with the IPO in 2015. I would like to express our thanks even bigger company in the future. for a great working relationship through the years. I would also would like to express my gratitude to Arne Bernroth Hans Larsson who left the Board in February 2017 Chairman of the Board after becoming the new Chairman in Nordnet. Stockholm 22 March 2017 48 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Nordax Group AB (publ) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction Shares in Nordax Group AB (publ) (“Nordax”) have Nordax has prepared this corporate governance been listed on the Main Market of Nasdaq Stockholm report in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act since 17 June 2015. The company is the parent comand the Swedish Corporate Governance Code pany of the Nordax Group and holds all the shares in (referred to below as “the Code”). The description the operating subsidiary Nordax Bank AB (publ) below explains how Nordax follows the rules. For fur(“Nordax Bank”). In autumn 2016 Nordax merged the ther information about the Code, see www.bolagsstytwo wholly owned holding companies Nordax Group rning.se. Holding AB and Nordax Holding AB with Nordax Bank. Nordax Bank conducts a banking business and is In accordance with the fundamental rules on the govunder the supervision of the Swedish Financial Superernance and organisation of a limited liability comvisory Authority. Nordax and Nordax Bank follow a pany, Nordax is governed through the General Meeting number of laws and rules on good corporate governof Shareholders, the Board of Directors appointed by ance and control of the business, such as the Swedish the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Companies Act (2005:551), the Annual Accounts Act Chief Executive Officer appointed by the Board of (1995:1554), the Annual Accounts Act for Credit InstiDirectors and the Board of Directors’ control of the tutions and Securities Companies (1995:1559), the Nordax management. The auditor appointed by the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, Nasdaq StockAnnual General Meeting issues an audit report on his holm’s Rule Book for Issuers, the Banking and Finance or her audit of the company’s annual report and conService Act and the International Financial Reporting solidated accounts, on the disposition of profit and on Standards. In addition, Nordax Bank is covered by a the administration of the company and its operations number of regulations and general guidelines issued by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and Officer. the European Banking Authority (“EBA”). Articles of Association The Nordax Articles of Association regulate the comExtraordinary General Meeting at which a question pany’s operation, among other things. The object of concerning amendment of the Articles of Association the company’s business is to own and manage securiis to be discussed must, under the Companies Act, ties and to conduct other business activities compatibe issued no earlier than six weeks and no later than ble therewith. The Articles of Association do not confour weeks prior to the meeting. The current Articles tain any conditions concerning the appointment or of Association of Nordax were adopted at an Extradismissal of members of the Board of Directors, with ordinary General Meeting held on 11 May 2015. The the exception of a condition on the minimum and maxArticles of Association are available on the website imum number of Board members. A notice of an www.nordaxgroup.com. 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Ownership and right to vote The share capital consists of one share class, where all the shares carry the same rights. The share capital as Information on the date and time of future AGMs and of 31 December 2016 totalled SEK 111 million, distribhow shareholders exercise the right of initiative can be uted into 110,945,598 shares and votes. The largest found on the Nordax website www.nordaxgroup.com shareholder, Vision Capital Partners, with a total holdunder Corporate Governance no later than the date ing of 13.6 percent 1 at 31 December 2016, the second when the third quarter report in the year preceding the largest owner was SEB Fonder with a total holding of AGM is published. If the Board of Directors finds rea10.2 percent. son to hold a General Meeting of Shareholders prior to the next scheduled General Meeting of Shareholders, General Meeting of Shareholders or if the company’s auditor or at least ten percent of The General Meeting of Shareholders is the company’s the shares so request, an Extraordinary General Meethighest decision-making body. At a General Meeting, ing may be convened. A notice convening an Extraorshareholders exercise their right to vote on matters dinary General Meeting at which a matter concerning such as adoption of the income statement and stateamendment of the Articles of Association is to be disment of financial position, consolidated income statecussed must be issued no earlier than six weeks and no ment and statement of financial position, dividend and later than four weeks prior to the meeting. other dispositions of profit or loss, discharge from liability for Board members and the CEO, election of The AGM on 11 May 2016 was attended by 48 shareBoard members and auditors, Board fees and audit holders representing just over 78% of the total number fees, nomination procedure for appointment of the of shares and votes in the company. The company’s Nomination Committee, and remuneration guidelines auditor and all Board members except Katarina Bonde for senior management. The Annual General Meeting were present at the meeting, as well as all members of (AGM), under the Articles of Association, has to be the company’s Nomination Committee. The 2016 AGM held within six months following the end of the finanpassed the following resolutions: cial year. In addition to the Annual General Meeting, • approval of the company’s income statement and an Extraordinary General Meeting may be called. statement of financial position and the consolidated income statement and statement of financial posiUnder the Nordax Articles of Association, a General tion for the financial year 2015 Meeting of Shareholders has to be held in Stockholm. • payment of a dividend of 0.50 SEK per share in Under the Articles of Association, a notice convening a accordance with the Board’s proposal General Meeting must be published in the Swedish • discharge of the Board members and the CEO Official Gazette (Post och Inrikes Tidningar) and be from liability for 2015 made available on the Company’s website. At the time • approval of number of Board members and auditors of the notice convening a General Meeting of Share• approval of the fees paid to Board members and holders, information regarding the notice has to be auditor announced in the newspaper Dagens Nyheter. A notice • election of the Board of Directors, the Chairman convening the Annual General Meeting must be issued of the Board and auditor no earlier than six weeks and no later than two weeks • approval of remuneration guidelines and other before the meeting. The material released prior to and employment terms for the CEO and management in connection with the General Meeting as well as the team minutes of the General Meeting will be made available • approval of Management Incentive Plan 2016 on the Company’s website www.nordaxgroup.com. • authorisation of the Board of Directors to resolve to acquire and transfer the company’s own shares to To be entitled to vote at a General Meeting of Shareholdenable it to satisfy its obligations resulting from the ers, shareholders must attend the meeting, either perallotment of shares to employees within the framesonally or by proxy. In addition, shareholders are work of the Group’s long-term incentive plans and, in required to be registered in their own name in the regisaddition, to create an appropriate capital structure ter of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB at any given time while enabling the implementation on a specific date prior to the meeting and have notified of acquisitions and transfer of repurchased shares the company of their intention to participate in accordon Nasdaq Stockholm or outside Nasdaq Stockholm ance with the instructions in the notice convening the to be used as payment or financing for possible meeting. Shareholders may vote all the shares they own future acquisitions of companies or businesses (up or represent. Shareholders wishing to have a matter disto 10% of all shares in the company) cussed at the General Meeting of Shareholders must sub• transfer of no more than 455,000 shares to particimit a written request by email to ir@nordax.se or by post pants in the Management Incentive Plan 2015 and to Nordax Group AB (publ), Attn: Board of Directors, Box Management Incentive Plan 2016 23124, SE-104 35 Stockholm, Sweden. Requests must be received by no later than the date stated on the website, which for the 2017 AGM is 9 March 2017. 1 Vision Capital sold its remaining shares in February 2017. 2 In February 2017 SEB Fonder notified that they had decreased their holdings to below 10 percent. 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Committee and the nomination procedure Pursuant to the Code, the company has a Nomination than two months before the AGM, the members repreCommittee to present proposals to the General Meetsenting these shareholders must relinquish their duties ing concerning the following: and new members must be appointed by the new • proposal for Chairman of the Annual General shareholders who, at that time, are among the three Meeting largest shareholders. The term of office of the Nomina• proposal for Board of Directors tion Committee extends until a new Nomination Com• proposal for Chairman of the Board of Directors mittee has been appointed. If a member of the Nomi• proposal for fees and other remuneration of memnation Committee withdraws from his or her duties bers of the Board of Directors and any remuneration before the term of office of the Nomination Committee for Committee work has come to an end, the same shareholder who • proposal for auditor appointed the departing member, if considered neces• proposal for fee payable to the company’s auditors sary, has the right to appoint a new member, or, if the • proposal for any changes to the procedure for shareholder is no longer among the three largest appointing a Nomination Committee shareholders, the next largest shareholder. Changes to the composition of the Nomination Committee must At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 14 April be announced immediately. 2015, it was decided to adopt principles for appointing the Nomination Committee. According to these princiThe composition of the Nomination Committee must ples, which were not changed by the 2016 AGM, the be announced no later than six months prior to the Nomination Committee is to consist of representatives AGM. The members of the Nomination Committee are of each of the three largest shareholders based on not remunerated for their duties. However, Nordax shareholding at 31 August, according to the register of reimburses reasonable costs that the Nomination shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. The Committee deems necessary for it to fulfil its duties. member representing the largest shareholder is to be appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee. If The names of the members of the Nomination Comone or more shareholders who have appointed memmittee and the shareholders they represent were pubbers to the Nomination Committee are no longer lished on 7 October 2016. among the three largest shareholders at a time more COMPOSITION OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE1 Percentage of shares at Percentage of shares at Name Representing 31.08.2016 31.12.2016 2 Hans Hedström (Chairman) Carnegie Fonder 7.4 9.1 Malin Björkmo Handelsbanken Fonder 5.2 3.9 Hans Ek SEB Investment Management 0.5 10.2 1 The Nomination Committee is not composed of representatives of the three largest shareholders at 31 August 2016, as some shareholders have chosen to refrain from appointing a representative, in accordance with the revised Code, and their turn has been taken instead by the next shareholder in size. 2 Source; Holdings Modular Finance AB. Data from e.g. Euroclear, Morningstar and SFSA. Nordax’s Chairman of the Board, Arne Bernroth, Board of Directors have also been evaluated. When the served as an adjunct member of the Nomination ComNomination Committee presents proposals for Direcmittee. tors’ fees, comparisons are made with companies engaged in similar operations and of a similar size and The Nomination Committee’s proposals, as well as a complexity. Pursuant to the Code, the Nomination report on its work, are published no later than in conCommittee, in assessing the Board’s evaluation and in junction with the notice convening the AGM. Shareits proposal for a Board of Directors to the 2017 AGM, holders may contact the Nomination Committee with has to pay particular attention to the requirement for nomination proposals. Such proposals may be sent by diversity and breadth in the Board of Directors and to email to ir@nordax.se or by post to Nordax Group AB endeavour to attain an even gender distribution. (publ), Attn: Nomination Committee, Box 23124, SE-104 35 Stockholm, Sweden. The Nomination Committee’s proposal to the 2017 AGM on the auditor’s election must contain the Audit The Nomination Committee appointed in October 2016 Committee’s recommendation. If the proposal differs held three meetings in 2016 at which minutes were from the alternative recommended by the Audit Comkept, and between these meetings maintained contact mittee, the Nomination Committee must clarify the by phone and email. The Nomination Committee has reasons why the Audit Committee’s recommendation also reviewed and discussed the results of the evaluawas not followed in its proposal. The auditor or audition of the Board of Directors and its work as well as of tors proposed by the Audit Committee must also have the Chairman, in which the size and composition of the been in the Audit Committee’s selection procedure 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors Under the Nordax Articles of Association, the Board of Work of the Board of Directors Directors must consist of no fewer than five and no more The Board of Directors is responsible for the compathan twelve members. The members are elected annuny’s administration and organisation. These responsially at the Annual General Meeting for the period until the bilities include determining and reviewing overall tarend of the next AGM. The Nordax Board of Directors congets and strategies taking into consideration Nordax’s sists since the 2016 AGM of eight elected members and long-term financial interests, the risks to which Nordax no deputies. The Chief Executive Officer sits on the Board. is exposed and applicable capital requirements, ensuring that the company has satisfactory control of comThe company is the parent company of the Nordax Group pliance and that internal rules on risk management, and holds all the shares in Nordax Bank. The composirisk control and risk reporting are established, ensurtion of the Board of Directors is identical in Nordax and ing that there are appropriate systems to monitor and Nordax Bank. control the company’s operations and the risks with which the company and its operations are associated, Composition of the Board of Directors continuously evaluating the Group’s financial position, The 2016 AGM re-elected all the Board members and ensuring that information and financial reports except Daryl Cohen and Richard Pym, who declined released by Nordax are characterised by openness and re-election. Jenny Rosberg was elected as a new memare correct, relevant and reliable. The Board is also ber. The Chairman of the Board is Arne Bernroth. After responsible for establishing guidelines for how the the election the Board consisted of the following memCompany acts in society to ensure the long-term bers: Arne Bernroth (Chairman), Christian Beck, Katacapacity of Nordax to create value. rina Bonde, Morten Falch, Hans Larsson 1 , Andrew Rich, Jenny Rosberg and Synnöve Trygg. The Board held its The Board’s work follows written rules of procedure first meeting following the AGM on 11 May 2016. adopted annually at the first meeting of the new Board of Directors following the Annual General Meeting. The Chairman of the Board rules of procedure follow, among other things, the The Chairman of the Board is elected by the General Swedish Companies Act, the Banking and Finance Meeting of Shareholders. If the Chairman terminates Business Act, applicable regulations issued by the steps down before the end of his term, the Board of Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and guideDirectors will appoint a new Chairman from among its lines issued by the European Banking Authority (EBA). members until the end of the General Meeting when a The rules of procedure govern, among other things, new Chairman is elected. The Chairman is responsible the Board’s processes for decision-making and Board for the management of the Board’s work and ensuring meetings, as well as the distribution of work between that such work is well organised and conducted effecthe Board, the Chairman and the Board committees. tively, supervising that the Board receives the training The rules of procedure also regulate the distribution of required for its duties, verifying that executive manwork between the members of the Board and the Chief agement implements the Board’s decisions, initiating Executive Officer. The rules of procedure are revised at the annual evaluation of the work of the Board and the least once per year. The Board meets according to an CEO, and representing the Board to the shareholders annual schedule and on the basis of an annual plan. 1 Hans Larsson resigned from the Board of Directors February 22, 2017 to avoid a potential risk of conflict of interest after he was elected as Chairman of Nordnet. OVERVIEW OF BOARD MEETINGS 2016 MONTH TASKS February Annual financial statements and year-end report 2015, report by Internal Audit to Audit Committee, budget 2016, decision on variable remuneration for 2015 for management and heads of control functions, business review Sweden March Decision to issue senior unsecured bonds, Board’s evaluation of the CEO, report by Internal Audit to Remuneration Committee, gender equality analysis, decision on fixed compensation for management and heads of control functions, decision to offer retail deposit products in Germany April Annual report 2015 and interim report first quarter 2016, report by external audit to Board, report by Internal Audit to Audit Committee, business review Norway May Annual General Meeting and first Board meeting, decision to merge the two wholly owned holding companies Nordax Group Holding AB and Nordax Holding AB with Nordax Bank AB (publ), decision to raise the maximum loan amount in Finland to EUR 50,000, business review Finland June Approval of ICAAP report 2016, decision to apply to use alternative standardised approach to calculate operational risks, decision on early redemption of SCL II (securitisation issued July 2011) on first possible date , business review Germany July Interim report second quarter 2016 August Decision on timetable to procure auditing services and mandatory audit firm rotation, decision on strategic digital development, decision to repurchase shares in accordance with AGM’s authorisation September Strategy and business development, decision to appoint Chief Risk Officer October Interim report third quarter 2016 November Decision to join UN’s Global Compact initiative, presentation of Board evaluation December Report from Internal Audit to Audit Committee, draft budget 2017 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Further meetings may be convened to address issues objectivity and independence of the external auditor, that cannot be addressed at one of the regular sesapproving the external auditor’s advisory services and sions. The Board makes decisions on matters concernmonitoring the calculation and follow-up of fees for ing the company’s strategic orientation, e.g., through a advisory services and in connection with rotation of business plan and budget, financing, material organithe external auditor; and submitting recommendations sational changes and governing documents in the to the Nomination Committee, along with information form of policies. The Board discusses the company’s to the Board on the election of the audit firm. interim reports and decides on adoption and publication of the financial reports. The Board regularly folAs part of its duties, the Audit Committee must, lows up the Group’s risks and compliance through among other things, support the Board in its work to reporting from the independent functions for compliensure that Nordax has an effective internal risk manance and risk control. The Board also receives reports agement and control framework, participate in the on internal control from Mazars SET Revisionsbyrå AB, planning of the audit work by discussing the scope and to which Nordax Bank has outsourced the Internal the focus of the audit work with the external auditor Audit Function. The Group’s external auditors submit and the executive management, and review the exterreports on reviews of the administration of the comnal auditor’s audit plan and support the Board in its pany and the financial reporting. The Chief Executive work to ensure the quality of Nordax’s financial reportOfficer, also a member of the Board, attends the ing. Furthermore, the Audit Committee must review Board’s meetings. The Chief Financial Officer, the and recommend for approval by the Board the annual Treasurer and other staff attend as necessary to presplans for Nordax’s compliance and the risk control ent reports. The minutes of the Board’s meetings are functions, review and approve a risk-based audit plan kept by the Chief Legal Counsel. for Nordax’s Internal Audit Function, evaluate audit reports, verify that Nordax’s management takes the The Board of Directors of Nordax held 13 meetings in necessary corrective actions in a timely manner to 2016, of which 11 were regular sessions, one followed address control weaknesses and other problems identhe election of the new Board and one was unschedtified by the auditors, monitor the choice of accountuled. The Board of Directors of the operating subsidiing policies and principles, and perform other tasks ary Nordax Bank held 16 meetings in 2016, of which 11 delegated to the Audit Committee by the Board. were regular sessions, two followed the election of a new Board and three were unscheduled. The regular The Audit Committee consists of three Board memsessions always include financial reporting, operabers: Jenny Rosberg (Chairman), Hans Larsson 1 and tional reporting by the CEO and the function manager Andrew Rich. All of the members are independent of based on the annual plan and reporting from the indeNordax and its executive management, and the majorpendent control functions for risk control and compliity of the members are independent of the company’s ance. In addition to the recurring reporting presented major shareholders. At least one member has accountat each of its regular sessions, the Board discusses ing or auditing proficiency. issued during the year as listed on page 53. The Audit Committee held eight meetings during the Board committees year, of which six were regular sessions and two were The Board of Directors of Nordax has established the unscheduled. The company´s external auditors following committees and adopted a policy for each attended three of the meetings and the internal audicommittee, which among other things governs the tors attended five of the meetings. work and mandate of the committee. The issues and matters addressed at each committee’s meetings are Risk Committee reported verbally through the chairman of the comThe main responsibilities of the Risk Committee mittee at the next meeting of the Board. The minutes include supporting the Board of Directors in identifyof committee meetings are provided to all Board meming and defining risks within Nordax’s business and bers. ensuring that risk taking is measured and controlled. In addition, the Risk Committee is responsible for moniAudit Committee toring and reviewing Nordax’s risk strategy and its The main duties of the Audit Committee include moniimplementation, monitoring and reviewing Nordax’s toring Nordax’s financial reporting; issuing recommenrisk appetite and risk tolerance (including limits and dations and proposals to ensure the reliability of the exposure), and monitoring and reviewing risk managereporting; monitoring the effectiveness of Nordax’s ment processes and policies. internal controls, internal audits and risk management with respect to the financial reporting; keeping The Risk Committee consists of three Board members: informed on the audit of the annual report and consoliHans Larsson 1 (Chairman), Jenny Rosberg and Katadated accounts as well as the conclusions of the rina Bonde. Supervisory Board of Public Accountant’s quality control; informing the Board of the results of the audit and The Risk Committee held six meetings during the year, in what ways the audit contributed to the reliability of of which five were regular sessions and one was the financial reporting as well as of the role the Audit unscheduled. Committee has played, reviewing and monitoring the 1 Hans Larsson resigned from the Board of Directors February 22, 2017 to avoid a potential risk of conflict of interest after he was elected as Chairman of Nordnet. 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Remuneration Committee policy on diversity and suitability assessment of Board The main duties of the Remuneration Committee members, the Chief Executive Officer and other meminclude preparing the Board of Directors’ decisions on bers of the Senior Management Team pursuant to regissues concerning remuneration principles, remuneraulations issued by the Swedish Financial Supervisory tion structures and other terms of employment, as well Authority and guidelines issued by the EBA. The policy as decisions on measures to monitor the application of states that the composition of the Board must achieve Nordax’s remuneration policy. The Remuneration diversity in terms of gender, age, geographical origin, Committee prepares the Board’s decisions on remuand educational and professional background, and neration for the executive management and employthat an assessment must be made of each individual’s ees with overarching responsibility for any of Nordax’s experience, expertise, reputation and judgement, takcontrol functions. In addition, the Remuneration Coming account of a broad set of criteria. mittee is responsible for monitoring and evaluating Nordax’s variable remuneration programmes as well The Nomination Committee has received information as monitoring and evaluating the application of the from the company on the above-mentioned rules and remuneration guidelines that the Annual General guidelines that impact the Nomination Committee’s Meeting is legally obliged to establish. task to nominate members of the Nordax Board of Directors and has studied the Board’s policy described The Remuneration Committee also supports the Board above. of Directors in ensuring that the risks associated with Nordax’s remuneration systems are identified, manEvaluation of the work of the Board of Directors and aged and reported. This includes ensuring that Nordthe Chief Executive Officer ax’s remuneration systems comply with applicable An evaluation of the Board of Directors and its work labour law and other laws, regulations and guidelines was made during the fourth quarter of 2016. The evaluapplicable to Nordax, as well as that Nordax’s employation was based on responses to an online questionees are remunerated fairly and responsibly with the naire as well as interviews with each member concompany’s long-term interests in mind. ducted by an independent party. The evaluation contributes to and is aimed at further improving the The Remuneration Committee consists of three Board Board’s work and assists the Nomination Committee in members: Arne Bernroth (Chairman), Synnöve Trygg assessing the composition of the Board and its size. and Christian Beck. All the members of the Committee The evaluation reviews whether the members actively are independent of the company and the Senior Mantake part in the work and discussions of the Board and agement Team. any committees, whether the climate at the Board’s meetings contributes to and fosters open discussions, The Remuneration Committee held three meetings how the Chairman of the Board carries out his work, during the year. and whether the Board members contribute independent judgement. The Board continuously evaluates Diversity and suitability policy the work of the Chief Executive Officer. A separate Pursuant to the rules on management review, all memevaluation of the CEO’s work was made in 2016 and bers of the Board of Directors have to be approved by one will be made in 2017 in conjunction with the decithe Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, and the sion on variable remuneration. The outcome of the composition of the Board has to fulfil the requirements evaluation was reported to the Nomination Committee of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The by the Chairman of the Board. Board of Directors of Nordax Bank has also adopted a 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CEO and Senior Management Team The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board of decides on individual remuneration to, among others, Directors and is responsible for the day-to-day manthe CEO and other members of the Senior Manageagement of the company’s affairs and operations in ment Team. accordance with the Board’s guidelines, adopted policies and instructions. Pursuant to Nordax’s remuneration policy, total variable remuneration must not limit Nordax’s ability to The division of work between the Board and the CEO is maintain an adequate capital base or, if necessary, set forth in the rules of procedure for the Board and strengthen its capital base. This is ensured through, the instructions for the CEO established by the Board. among other things, the Board’s Risk Committee. FurPursuant to these instructions, the CEO is responsible thermore, there must be an appropriate balance for ensuring that the Board receives objective, detailed between the fixed and variable components of the and relevant information necessary for making remuneration. The fixed components must represent a informed decisions. Accordingly, the CEO must continsufficient portion of an employee’s total compensation ually keep the Board informed of, among other things, for it to be possible to set the variable remuneration developments in Nordax’s operations, sales, earnings components to zero. Variable remuneration in one and financial position, liquidity, risk situation and other year must never exceed 100 percent of the individual’s significant business events and circumstances. fixed annual salary. The Senior Management Team comprises the CEO and Pursuant to the remuneration policy, the assessment the senior executives appointed by the CEO. The Norof the result that forms the basis for calculating variadax Senior Management Team at the end of 2016 conble remuneration must primarily be based on risk-adsisted of eight persons: four women and four men. The justed profit measures. This assessment must take CEO and the Senior Management Team hold formal account of both current and future risks and the actual Senior Management Team meetings weekly and addicost of the capital and liquidity required by operations. tional informal meetings as required. For information Should Nordax use subjective risk-based assessments on the CEO and members of the Senior Management to adjust results, the considerations underlying the Team, see page 64. adjustments must be balanced and appropriately documented. The assessment must aim to promote NordThe CEO has appointed a number of forums as support ax’s long-term, sustainable results, and its underlying for his work directing operating activities to assist the business cycle must be considered when the resultCEO and other function managers in making decisions based remuneration is paid. that affect day-to-day operations, based on material produced by the heads of functions or for preparation Remuneration to members of the Senior Management of recommendations by the Senior Management Team Team is subject to regulatory restrictions and requirefor approval by the Board. The forums are intended to ments pursuant to the Swedish Financial Supervisory coordinate and assess the effect of proposed strateAuthority’s regulations and guidelines. At least 60% of gies and decisions prior to implementation and include the variable remuneration must be deferred for a the Risk Profile Forum, the Risk and Compliance period of three years for senior executives and a Forum and the Interest Margin Forum. period of five years for the CEO. For information on remuneration to the CEO and Senior management, see Remuneration of the Senior Management Team note 10. Remuneration for members of the Senior Management Team consists of a fixed salary and variable, perforRemuneration of the Board mance-based remuneration. The variable remuneraThe following compensation amounts have been tion is offered through a long-term incentive plan adopted for the Board of Directors for the period until based on both cash compensation and shares in the the end of the 2017 Annual General Meeting: SEK company. 1,100,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 400,000 to each of the other members of the Board. It The Board of Directors has adopted a remuneration was also decided to pay SEK 50,000 for each assignpolicy consistent with the Swedish Financial Superviment as chairman or a member of the Board’s commitsory Authority’s regulations and the guidelines issued tees. No compensation was paid to the Chairman of by the EBA. The policy is based on a risk analysis and the Board for committee work. No compensation was covers all employees of the Nordax Group. The policy paid either to Andrew Rich or to Board members who states that remuneration and other benefits must be receive a salary from the company. Provided that it is competitive to promote Nordax’s long-term interests cost neutral for Nordax, remuneration may be invoiced while discouraging excessive risk taking. The Board through a Board member’s wholly owned company. 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Auditor The Company’s auditor is appointed by the General At the General Meeting held on 11 May 2016 Öhrlings Meeting of Shareholders. The Nordax Audit CommitPriceWaterhouseCoopers AB was re-elected as auditee assesses the work of the auditor and will assist the tor for the period until the end of the 2017 Annual GenNomination Committee in preparing proposals for an eral Meeting. Helena Kaiser de Carolis is the auditor in auditor. An auditor for Nordax is elected annually purcharge. Helena Kaiser de Carolis is an authorised pubsuant to the Companies Act and the Articles of Assolic accountant. ciation. Öhrlings PriceWaterhouseCoopers The auditor reviews and submits an audit report on SE-113 97 Stockholm, Sweden his or her audit of the Nordax annual report and conTelephone +46 10 212 4000 solidated statements, on the company’s disposition of its profit or loss and on the administration by the A more detailed presentation of the auditor, the audiBoard of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, tor in charge, and the fees and reimbursement of costs and expresses an opinion on the corporate governpaid to the auditors can be found in note 10. ance report. The reports mentioned will be submitted and presented to the shareholders at the Annual GenIn accordance with the provisions of the EU’s audit eral Meeting. The auditor also reviews Nordax’s interim package on audit firm rotation that took effect in June reports and the year-end report, and presents a review 2016, Nordax initiated a procurement process during report to the Audit Committee at regular meetings of the year. Nordax’s Audit Committee is responsible for the Committee when the reviewed interim reports or the tendering ahead of the election of the auditor. Noryear-end report are discussed, as well as to the Board dax’s Nomination Committee will propose auditors to of Directors. the Annual General Meeting. The Audit Committee assists the Nomination Committee in its work. Internal control and risk management Pursuant to the rules of procedure of the Board of part of Nordax’s second line of defence. The Risk ConDirectors, the Board is responsible for working for trol Function is responsible for independently reviewgood internal control to be a feature of the organisaing and analysing Nordax’s risks and risk management. tion and the company’s business in order to ensure The responsibility of the Risk Control Function that the company’s business is conducted in accordincludes providing a comprehensive and objective ance with applicable rules. The Board of Directors view of Nordax’s risks, monitoring risk limits, conmust make certain that the company has an effective trolling and analysing Nordax’s material risks, and organisation that identifies, measures and controls the identifying new risks that may arise as a result of risks that arise in operations and that ensures reliable changed circumstances. The Risk Control Function is financial reporting. The Board of Directors establishes also responsible for verifying that relevant internal internal rules for sound and effective control and risk rules, processes and routines in the risk management management and continuously ensures that these framework are appropriate and complied with, and for rules are followed. proposing amendments thereto, if needed. Three lines of defence model The Risk Control Function reports at least quarterly to To ensure adequate control of risks and compliance the Board of Directors and the CEO, and regularly with laws, regulations and internal governing docuattends Board meetings. In addition, the Risk Control ments, Nordax’s risk management and internal control Function reports to the Audit Committee and the Risk are built according to the three lines of defence model. Committee. Nordax’s Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the Risk Control Function and. is a direct subordiThe first line of defence nate of the CEO. On a regular basis, and whenever nec– Risk management by operations essary, the Chief Risk Officer has direct contact with Nordax’s business units and support functions (Credit the Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Risk, Treasury, Decision Science, Legal, Finance, IT, HR, Audit Committee and the Risk Committee. IR, Marketing and Operations) are responsible for the risks that arise within their operations and must idenRisks identified by the Risk Control Function are mantify, assess, control and internally report risks. This aged and followed up on a regular basis by, among includes responsibility for ensuring that clear proothers, Nordax’s Risk Profile Forum, which is attended cesses and routines are in place together with internal by the CEO and risk owners, and the Risk and Compligoverning documents that govern how Nordax must ance Forum, where the Compliance Function and repoperate in various respects. resentatives of business units and support functions also participate. The second and third lines of defence – Independent control functions Compliance Function Risk Control Function The Board of Directors has established a Compliance The Board of Directors has established a Risk Control Function whose work is based on a policy adopted by Function whose work is based on a policy adopted by the Board. The Compliance Function is part of Nordthe Board of Directors. The Risk Control Function is ax’s second line of defence. The Compliance Function 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT is responsible for independently supporting and tions to the relevant departments or functions. The reviewing the business operations as a part of its work Internal Audit Function is directly subordinate to the in ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and Board through the Audit Committee. internal rules, as well as generally accepted practices or accepted standards regarding the operations that Risk management processes are subject to licenses obtained by Nordax. The ComNordax identifies its risks through, among other pliance Function is also responsible for independently things, incident reporting, the new product approval reviewing and evaluating the appropriateness and process, self-assessments of operational risks, risk effectiveness of the measures taken by Nordax and the owners’ quarterly evaluation of Nordax’s risk profile processes implemented for the purpose of managing and the control functions’ independent reviews and compliance risks. The Compliance Function is responcontrols. sible for issuing recommendations based on identified deficiencies and also regularly providing information The self-assessments of operational risks are made on regarding any risks that could arise as a consequence the basis of Nordax’s material processes and identify of a lack of compliance. The Function also provides important risks specifically related to the business assistance in drafting internal governing documents units and support functions that are covered by those and supports the business operations when new prodmaterial processes. In addition to providing support ucts are developed, as well as in connection with any for the business units’ ongoing risk identification and changes in the organisation. The Compliance Function risk management, the self-assessments provide a basis is also responsible for ensuring that the employees for the control functions’ risk-based annual plans. obtain information and training on new or amended internal and external rules. The evaluation of Nordax’s risk profile is conducted on the basis of Nordax’s operating environment and idenThe Compliance Function submits a compliance report tifies external risks that could have an impact on Nordto the Board of Directors and the CEO at least quarax’s operations. The risk profile is updated on a quarterly and regularly attends the Board’s meetings. The terly basis by Nordax’s risk owners, who are persons Compliance Function also regularly reports to the with specialised knowledge of a particular risk and are Audit Committee. Nordax’s Chief Compliance Officer best suited to assess the risk exposure. Nordax’s risk is a subordinate of the CEO and maintains direct conprofile is compiled by the Risk Control Function and tact with the Chairman of the Board on a regular basis, discussed at the quarterly Risk Profile Forum, which and whenever necessary. the CEO and risk owners attend. The risk profile is presented to the Risk Committee at least four times a year, Risks identified by the Compliance Function are manand the risks that rank highest based on probability aged and followed up on a regular basis by, among and potential impact are reported to the Board four others, Nordax’s Risk and Compliance Forum, where times a year on a special risk radar. the Compliance Function and representatives of business units and support functions participate. The effectiveness of controls and routines that have been implemented by business units and support Internal Audit Function functions in the day-to-day business to manage comThe Board of Directors has established an Internal pliance risks is evaluated and controlled on an ongoing Audit Function whose work is based on a policy basis by the Compliance Function through independadopted by the Board of Directors. ent reviews and controls. Management and monitoring of identified risks and recommendations issued by the The Internal Audit Function is part of Nordax’s third Compliance Function are partly the responsibility of line of defence. Nordax has outsourced the Internal Nordax’s Risk and Compliance Forum, where repreAudit Function to the audit firm Mazars Set Revisionssentatives of business units and support functions parbyrå AB (“Mazars”). The scope of the outsourced serticipate. Completed reviews, identified risks and recvices is governed by a written agreement pursuant to ommendations are presented to the Board of Directors which Mazars must perform the services in accordance at least four times a year. with the policy adopted by the Board of Directors, applicable laws, regulations, practices, written audit To support the risk management processes, Nordax instructions adopted by the Board and the risk-based has an IT system for governance, risk management and audit plan adopted by the Board. The Internal Audit compliance (“GRC system”). The GRC system ensures Function is responsible for reviewing and evaluating rapid access to information on business risks and operNordax’s first and second lines of defence. Internal ational risks and currently comprises the following risk Audit also includes an independent audit of the IT sysmanagement processes: incident reporting, whistletems and information security. In addition, the function blowing and risk profile evaluation. Nordax is working reviews and evaluates whether Nordax’s internal rules continuously to transfer risk management processes are suitable and consistent with laws and regulations to the GRC system. and, based on its observations, issues recommenda58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors’ report on internal control IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL REPORTING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR OF 2016 Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Risk management Accounts Act and the Code, the Board of Directors is Risk management in Nordax, comprising risks pertainresponsible for the internal control of both Nordax and ing to financial reporting, is proactive and monitors the entire Nordax Group. Internal control over financial risks, emphasising evaluation, controls and training. reporting is built around the six fundamental pillars of Nordax applies available techniques and methods of internal control presented below: control environment, risk management in a cost effective way. Risk managerisk management, control activities, information and ment is an integral part of the business operations. communication, follow-up, and evaluation and positions regarding internal audit. Control activities Various control activities are built into the financial System of internal control and risk management with reporting process. The control activities comprise respect to financial reporting both general and detailed controls intended to preInternal control over financial reporting is a process by vent, detect and correct errors and discrepancies. The which it is ensured that established principles of intercontrol activities are prepared and documented at nal control and financial reporting are complied with company and department level, based on a reasonable and that the company’s financial reporting is prepared level related to the risk of errors and the impact of such in accordance with laws, regulations, applicable errors. The head of each department is primarily accounting standards and generally accepted responsible for managing the risks associated with accounting principles, as well as other requirements to their department’s operations and financial reporting be met by companies whose transferable securities are processes. Furthermore, high IT security is crucial to listed for trading on a regulated market. good internal control over financial reporting. Rules and guidelines are therefore in place to ensure the Control environment availability, accuracy, privacy and traceability of inforThe control environment described in the corporate mation in the business systems. governance report, including a clear and transparent organisational structure, distribution of responsibility Information and communication and governing documents such as internal policies, The company has information and communication instructions and manuals, is fundamental to Nordax’s paths aimed at promoting complete and accurate internal control over financial reporting. This also financial reporting. Governing documents in the form includes the ethical guidelines communicated to all of internal policies, instructions and manuals pertainemployees, which are crucial to a good control enviing to financial reporting have been made available ronment. Examples of policies, instructions and manuand known to the appropriate employees, and have als include the Board of Directors’ rules of procedure, been supplemented by relevant descriptions of routhe CEO’s instructions, the policies for the Risk Control tines and processes. Ongoing information, dialogue, Function, the Compliance Function and the Internal training and controls ensure that employees are Audit Function, and the policy for reporting and certiinformed of and understand the internal regulatory fication. framework. The internal regulatory framework of policies, instructions and manuals, supplemented by Another part of the control environment consists of descriptions of routines and processes, represents the risk assessment, i.e., identification and management of most important tool for disseminating information to the risks that can impact the financial reporting and ensure financial reporting. The system used for finanthe control activities intended to prevent, detect and cial reporting covers the entire Group. correct errors and discrepancies. External communication is aimed at providing a true To ensure adequate risk management and compliance and fair view of Nordax and is governed by the comwith laws, regulations and internal governing documunication policy. Nordax holds meetings for invesments, Nordax’s risk management and internal control tors and analysts and takes part in investor seminars. are built around the three lines of defence. 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors’ measures to follow up the internal evaluations of operations with respect to risk managecontrol over financial reporting ment and compliance and cover the entire organisaThe Board of Directors’ measures to follow up the tion. internal control over financial reporting are taken in, among other ways, through the Board’s ongoing folThe Group’s information and communication paths are low up of the company’s and the Group’s finances and regularly followed up to ensure that they are appropriresults, key ratios, expenses in relation to budgets and ate for the financial reporting. forecasts, etc., but also through the Board’s review and follow up of the external and internal auditors’ audit Evaluation of and positions on internal audit reports. The Board receives monthly financial reports Nordax’s Internal Audit Function is appointed by, and and discusses the company’s and the Group’s financial is directly subordinate to, the Board of Directors. The situation at each Board meeting. The Board and the role of Internal Audit is governed by policy on the Board’s Audit Committee also review the quarterly Internal Audit function, and the function’s work is financial reporting and annual accounts, as well as the based on a review plan reviewed by the Audit Commitfindings and conclusions of the external and internal tee and adopted by the Board. auditors. The plan is based on a risk assessment made in coopNordax’s Accounting and Reporting unit regularly eration with Nordax’s external auditors and the Chaircompiles and reports financial and operational figures man of the Audit Committee. The work of internal and analyses for function heads, management and the audit includes reviewing and assessing whether sysBoard of Directors. Accounting and Reporting works tems, internal control mechanisms and routines are actively to monitor operating expenses in relation to appropriate and effective and issued recommendabudgets and forecasts. This is done in close interaction tions are followed, as well as reporting at least annually with the management team and the rest of the organito the Board and the Audit Committee. sation. Internal audit has been outsourced to an external The Risk Control, Compliance and Internal Audit conparty with the aim of ensuring quality and independtrol functions verify that policies, instructions and ence in evaluations and reviews. manuals are complied with. The Board receives at least quarterly reports from Risk Control and Risk Compliance. The reports contain 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors Arne Christian Katarina Bernroth Beck Bonde Position Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of Remuneration Member of Remuneration Member of Risk Committee Committee Committee Education BSc in Economics, Master of Laws and Advanced MSc in Physics and MatheLund University Studies in Political Economics, matics, Royal Institute of Oslo University Technology, Stockholm Elected 2010 2004 2015 Year of birth 1947 1956 1958 Nationality Swedish Norwegian Swedish Other assignments Chairman of Emra gruppen AB Chairman of the Board of Chariman of the Board with subsidiaries, Ceres Food Arcasa Arkitekter AS, Cant Propellerhead Software AB and Motala Verkstad Group Invest AS, Case Holding AS Aktiebolag, Opus Group AB AB. Member of the Board of and Design og Interior AS. (publ) och IMINT Image elcecat AB and Scandinavian Member of the Board of Blår Intelligence AB. Member of Chemotec AB. Member of the AS and of the Advisory Board Aptilo Holding AB, Avega Advisory Board of Axcel Manof Palamon Capital Partners Group AB, Fingerprint Cards agement, CEO of elcecat AB AB, Birger Jarl Securities AB, Mycronic AB (publ), Micro Systemation AB (publ) Independent of the company Yes Yes Yes and the management Independent of Yes Yes Yes major shareholders Previous experience Senior management positions Multiple board assignments, Senior management positions in Nordea and Skandia including Chairman of the in the IT industry Board of Espresso House Sweden AB and Banqsoft AS Own and related parties' 135,639 shares 1,025,899 shares 1,500 shares holdings at 31 December 2016 Audit Committee, attendance 31 Risk Committee, attendance 22 44 Remuneration Committee, 3 13 attendance Board of Directors meetings, 13 13 10 attendance Directors’ fees, SEK 1,100,000 400,000 400,000 Fees for committee 50,000 50,000 assignments, SEK 1 Arne Bernroth was Chairman of the Audit Committee through 11 May 2016. 2 Arne Bernroth was a member of the Risk Committee through 11 May 2016. 3 Christian Beck was elected a member of the Remuneration Committee on 11 May 2016. 4 Katarina Bonde was elected a member of the Risk Committee on 11 May 2016. 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors Morten Hans Andrew 2 Falch Larsson 1 Rich Position CEO and Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of Risk Committee Member of Audit Committee Member of Audit Committee Education B.Sc. (Hons) in business BSc in Business Administration MA (Hons) in History of Art, administration, and Economics, Uppsala University of Edinburgh University of Bath University Elected 2004 2015 2010 Year of birth 1967 1961 1974 Nationality Norwegian Swedish British Other assignments Member of the Board of Responsible for Group M&A Linderyd Advisory AB, Lunda at Jardine Lloyd Thompson Advisory AB, Lindorff AB and Group plc (JLT) and Fellow of Lock TopCo AS, the holding the Institute of Chartered company of the Lindorff Accountants in England and Group. CEO of Linderyd AdviWales sory AB and Lunda Advisory AB Independent of the company No Yes Yes and the management Independent of Yes Yes No major shareholders Previous experience Co-founder of Nordax, senior Senior management positions Former Partner and Member management positions at GE at SEB of the Board of Vision Capital Capital, Citigroup and AVCO/ LLP and Member of the Board The Associates of JDR Enterprises Limited and ADDO Food Group Limited Own and related parties' 2,697,738 shares 3,000 shares holdings at 31 December 2016 Audit Committee, attendance 8 8 Risk Committee, attendance 6 Remuneration Committee, 22 attendance Board of Directors meetings, 13 12 13 attendance Directors’ fees, SEK 400,000 Fees for committee 100,000 assignments, SEK 1 Hans Larsson resigned from the Board of Directors February 22, 2017 to avoid a potential risk of conflict of interest after he was elected as Chairman of Nordnet 2 Andrew Rich was previously Vision Capitals appointed representative in the Board of Directors. He left his assignment at Vision Capital in January 2017. Andrew Rich was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee through 11 May 2016. 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors Jenny Synnöve Rosberg Trygg Position Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of Audit Committee Member of Remuneration Member of Risk Committee Committee Education Executive MBA, Stockholm BSc in Business School of Economics Administration, Stockholm University Elected 2016 2015 Year of birth 1966 1959 Nationality Swedish Swedish Other assignments CEO and Member of the Board Member of the Board of of ROPA Management AB, Intrum Justitia AB, LandsMember of the Board of IRtalks hypotek Bank AB, Valitor HF, AB and NetEnt AB (publ) and Volvofinans Bank AB, Precise Member of the Audit CommitBiometrics AB and Wrapp AB tee of NetEnt AB (publ) Independent of the company Yes Yes and the management Independent of Yes Yes major shareholders Previous experience Senior management positions CEO of SEB Kort at Nasdaq, Erik Penser Bankaktiebolag, Skandia, Nordiska Fondkommission and Pronator Own and related parties' 10,000 shares 2,000 shares holdings at 31 December 2016 Audit Committee, attendance 51 Risk Committee, attendance 42 Remuneration Committee, 3 attendance Board of Directors meetings, 10 3 12 attendance Directors’ fees, SEK 400,000 400,000 Fees for committee 100,000 50,000 assignments, SEK 1 Jenny Rosberg was elected Chairman of the Audit Committee on 11 May 2016. 2 Jenny Rosberg was elected a member of the Risk Committee on 11 May 2016. 3 Jenny Rosberg was elected a Non-Executive Director at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2016. 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Senior Management Team AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016 Christine Johanna Morten Andreas Ahlm Clason 1 Falch Frid Credit Risk Manager Group Treasurer CEO and Executive Director Head of Investor Relations Born 1967 Born 1965 Born 1967 Born 1977 Employed 2004 Employed 2011 Co-Founder Employed 2016 In current position since 2004 In current position since 2011 In current position since 2004 In current position since 2016 Education: MSc in Business Education: BSc in Economics Education: BSc Honours Education: MSc in Business and Economics, Stockholm and Business Administration, degree in Business AdminisAdministration, Lund University University Stockholm School of tration, University of Bath Economics Own and related parties’ holdOwn and related parties’ holdOwn and related parties’ holdOwn and related parties’ holdings as of 31 December 2016: ings as of 31 December 2016: ings as of 31 December 2016: ings as of 31 December 2016: 271,279 shares 271,279 shares 2,697,738 shares 1,650 shares Jacob Olof Kristina Camilla Lundblad Mankert Tham Wirth 2 Nordlind COO and Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer Chief Legal Counsel Chief Financial Officer Born 1978 Born 1979 Born 1972 Born 1970 Employed 2004 Employed 2013 Employed 2007 Employed 2011 In current position since 2009 In current position since 2016 In current position since 2007 In current position since 2011 Education: MSc in Business Education: Master of Laws Education: Master of Laws Education: MSc in Business Administration, B.Sc. in (LL.M), Stockholm University (LL.M), Stockholm University and Economics, Stockholm Business Law, School of University Economics and Management, Lund University Own and related parties’ holdOwn and related parties’ holdOwn and related parties’ holdOwn and related parties’ holdings as of 31 December 2016: ings as of 31 December 2016: ings as of 31 December 2016: ings as of 31 December 2016: 1,085,115 shares 666 shares 54,256 shares 50,586 shares 1 Johanna Clason has chosen to leave Nordax, but remains in her role until June 2017. 2 Camilla Wirth left Nordax in March 2017 and will be replaced by Lennart Erlandson. Read more about Lennart Erlandson on page 47. 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Other Senior Managers AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016 Per Olof Malin Fredrik Alinder Bengtsson Frick Hedberg Marketing Director Data Scientist, deputy HR Manager CIO Malin Mats Tom Jönsson Lagerqvist Rabben Operations Director Data Scientist Manager, Marketing Director Co-Founder 65 2016 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Nordax Group AB (publ) 66 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Multi-year review GROUP KEY RATIOS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 14.0 12.6 12.3 12.0 10.1 Return on equity, % 23.2 11.9 18.0 17.1 13.4 C/I ratio, % 37.3 54.2 45.3 44.0 46.1 Credit loss level, % 1.4 1.5 1.2 1.4 1.8 Number of employees 1 199 212 187 162 138 Summary of income statements Net interest income 1,100 927 781 629 504 Net commission 16 16 15 15 15 Net profit/loss from financial transactions 60 -55 7 5 45 Other operating income 0 0 0 4 15 Total income 1,176 888 803 653 579 Total operating expenses -439 -481 -364 -287 -267 Credit losses -164 -157 -114 -114 -127 Operating profit 573 250 325 251 185 Tax -127 -55 -71 -49 -49 Net profit/loss for the year 446 195 254 203 136 Summary of balance sheets Lending to credit institutions 1,672 1,810 2,212 1,608 2,546 Lending to the general public 12,794 10,841 10,042 8,393 7,456 Bonds and other fixed income securities 959 1,157 1,585 550 1,991 Intangible assets 305 320 316 330 342 Other assets 43 34 35 29 24 Total assets 15,773 14,162 14,190 10,910 12,359 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,205 2,880 2,259 2,314 1,781 Deposits from the general public 7,141 6,001 6,479 4,753 7,165 Issued securities 2,910 3,187 3,581 2,259 2,033 Other liabilities 150 115 134 99 98 Subordinated liabilities 247 246 199 198 197 Equity 2,120 1,733 1,538 1,287 1,085 Total equity and liabilities 15,773 14,162 14,190 10,910 12,359 1 In 2016 the number of employees is calculated at balance sheet date. The comparative periods have been changed accordingly. 67 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Consolidated income statement GROUP All amounts in MSEK Not JAN-DEC 2016 JAN-DEC 2015 Operating income Interest income 7,14 1,354 1,260 Interest expense 7,14 -254 -333 Total net interest income 1,100 927 Commission income 8,14 16 16 Net profit from financial transactions 9,14 60 -55 Other operating income 0 0 Total operating income 1,176 888 Operating expenses General administrative expenses 10,14 -291 -261 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2,14,19 -25 -21 Other operating expenses 14 -136 -124 Non-recurring items 11,14 13 -75 Total operating expenses -439 -481 Profit before credit losses 737 407 Net credit losses 12,14 -164 -157 Operating profit 573 250 Tax on profit for the period 13 -127 -55 NET PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD/COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 446 195 Attributable to: The Parent Company's shareholders 446 195 Non-controlling interest Earnings per share, SEK 2 4.02 1.76 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 2 4.02 1.76 Average number of outstanding shares 2 110,912,265 110,945,598 68 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Consolidated statement of financial position GROUP All amounts are in MSEK Not 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 ASSETS Lending to credit institutions 5,6,15 1,672 1,810 Lending to the general public 5,6,14,16 12,794 10,841 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 5,6,17 959 1,157 Tangible assets 18 7 8 Intangible assets 19 305 320 Other assets 20 19 9 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 17 17 TOTAL ASSETS 15,773 14,162 LIABILITIES, PROVISIONS AND EQUITY Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 5,6,21 3,205 2,880 Deposits from the general public 5,6 7,141 6,001 Issued securities 5,6,22 2,910 3,187 Current tax liability 23 36 10 Deferred tax liability 13 30 9 Other liabilities 24 16 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income 68 72 Subordinated liabilities 5,6,25 247 246 Total liabilities 13,653 12,429 Equity Share capital 111 111 Other capital -4 Other capital contributions 736 736 Retained earnings, incl. profit for the 1,277 886 Total equity 2,120 1,733 TOTAL LIABILITIES, PROVISIONS 15,773 14,162 69 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Consolidated cash flow statement GROUP All amounts are in MSEK JAN-DEC 2016 JAN-DEC 2015 Operating activities Operating profit (Group) / profit before tax (Parent 573 250 Adjustment for non-cash items Exchange rate effects 1 -60 55 Income tax paid -80 -81 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant 25 21 Amortisation of financing costs Unrealised changes in value of bonds and other fixed3 0 Change in operating assets and liabilities Decrease/Increase in lending to the general public -1,577 -1,110 Decrease/Increase in other assets -10 2 Decrease/Increase in deposits from the general public 1,140 -478 Decrease/Increase in other liabilities -12 7 Cash flow from operating activities 2 -1,334 Investing activities Purchase of equipment -9 -26 Investment in bonds and other interest bearing securities -3,879 -3,403 Sale/disposal of bonds and other fixed income securities 4,073 3,830 Cash flow from investing activities 185 401 Financing activities Increase in liability to credit institutions 186 3,136 Repayment of debt to credit institutions -2,395 Issue of subordinated loans 244 Redemption of subordinated loans -194 Issued bonds 500 1,079 Repayment of issued bonds -952 -1,339 Paid dividend -55 Repurchase own shares -4 Cash flow from financing activities -325 531 Cash flow for the period -138 -402 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,810 2,212 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,672 1,810 Cash and cash equivalents are defined as treasury bills eligible for refinancing and lending to credit institutions. Pledged cash and cash equivalents according to Note 26 are available to Nordax in connection with monthly settlement under financing arrangements and are thus defined as cash and cash equivalents because they are pledged for not more than 30 days and therefore are current. Operating income for the Group includes interest income paid by the public totalling SEK 1,351 (1,250) million and interest income paid by credit institutions totalling SEK 3 (10) million, as well as interest expenses paid to the public totalling SEK 91 (108) million and interest expenses paid to credit institutions totalling SEK 148 (199) million. 1 Unrealized exchange rate effects are now included in operating assets and liabilities instead of as a non-cash item. 70 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Statement of changes in consolidated equity GROUP  Restricted equity Non restricted equity Total Other contribRetained All amounts are in MSEK Share captial Other capital uted capital earnings OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2015 1 846 691 1,538 Comprehensive income Net profit/loss for the year 195 195 Total comprehensive income 195 195 Transactions with shareholders Intragroup restructuring (see Note 1) 110 -110 0 Total transactions with shareholders 110 -110 0 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2015 111 736 886 1,733 OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2016 111 736 886 1,733 Comprehensive income Net profit/loss for the year 446 446 Total comprehensive income 446 446 Transactions with shareholders Dividends paid -55 -55 Repurchase of own shares -4 -4 Total transactions with shareholders -4 -55 -59 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2016 111 -4 736 1,277 2,120 71 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Notes Amounts stated in the notes are in SEK million unless otherwise indicated. Note 1 General information Nordax Group AB (publ) (Corporate Identity Number Financial Supervisory Authority, Nordax merged the 556993-2485), with its registered office in Stockholm, two wholly owned holding companies Nordax Group is the parent company of a group that includes the Holding AB and Nordax Holding AB with Nordax Bank subsidiary Nordax Bank AB. In its turn, Nordax Bank AB (publ). AB owns companies whose business includes owning companies and managing shares in companies. The Nordax Group AB (publ) acquired as of May 11 2015, Group’s main operations consist of lending to private through a share exchange, Nelson Luxco Sarl which individuals in the Nordic region. was the former ultimate parent company for the Nordax Group. The transaction was purely a share Information on the consolidated situation exchange under common control and is considered to The top company in the consolidated situation is Norbe a pure reorganisation. Since this is a reorganization dax Group AB (publ). The following companies are under common control, and it was carried out through included in the consolidated financial statements for a share exchange Nordax Group AB (publ) cannot be the group in accordance with full IFRS and in the considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the group-based financial statements for calculation of consolidated financial statements prepared as a capital requirements: Nordax Group AB (publ), Nordax continuation of the previous Nordax Group. Bank AB (publ), Nordax Finans AS, PMO Sverige OY, Nordax Nordic AB (publ), Nordax Sverige AB, Nordax The consolidated financial statements and annual Nordic 4 AB (publ), Nordax Sverige 4 AB (publ), Norreport for Nordax Group AB (publ) for the financial dax Nordic 2 AB and Nordax Nordic 3 AB (publ). year 2016 were approved by the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer to be published on 22 Changes in the consolidated situation March 2017 for adoption by the Annual General During 2016, with the approval of the Swedish Meeting in 2017. Note 2 Accounting and measurement policies The most important accounting policies applied in (iii) Transactions with related parties preparing these consolidated financial statements are All related-party transactions are conducted accordindicated below. ing to the arms-length principle. Otherwise, there are no material differences in the ParThe consolidated financial statements for the Nordax ent Company’s accounting policies compared with the Group have been prepared in accordance with InternaGroup’s accounting policies presented below. tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. together with the Credit Institutions and Consolidated financial statements Securities Companies Act (1995:1559), the SwedishFiThe consolidated financial statements have been prenancial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendapared on the basis of the cost method, except as tion RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Regulations for regards instruments, treasury bills eligible for refinancGroups as well as the Swedish Financial Supervisory ing, bonds and other securities measured at fair value Authority’s regulations and guidelines FFFS 2008:25. through profit and loss. (i) Shares in Group companies Consolidation of subsidiaries Shares in Group companies are recognised at cost in Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the Parent Company. Distributions received are recogcontrol. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed nized as revenue when the right to receive payment is to or has the right to variable returns from its holding in virtually certain. Tests for impairment are performed the entity and is able to affect this return through its quarterly and an impairment loss is recognised when a influence in the entity. Subsidiaries are included in the permanent decline is established. consolidated financial statements from the date when control passes to the Group. They are deconsolidated (ii) Group contributions from the date on which the control ceases. Group contributions received from subsidiaries are recognised as financial income in the income stateTranslation of foreign currency ment. Group contributions paid to subsidiaries are recognized as increase in participations in Group compa(i) Functional currency and reporting currency nies to the extent that impairment is not required. The Items included in the financial statements for the diftax effect of Group contributions paid and received is ferent units in the Group are measured in the currency recognised in the income statement in cases where the used in the financial environment in which the comGroup contribution is recognised in the income statepany concerned is mainly active (functional currency). ment. As the Group contribution is recognized in The functional currency and reporting currency of the equity, the tax effect is also recognised in equity. Parent Company, which is the Swedish krona (SEK), is used in the consolidated financial statements. 72 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES (ii) Transactions and balance sheet items end of 2016 based on value in use. This means that the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the expected future cash flows of the assets are estabfunctional currency at the exchange rate applicable on lished by calculating the present value with a discount the transaction date. Exchange gains and losses arisrate. The expected future cash flows are based on the ing in the payment of such transactions and in the Group’s prepared five-year plan. The key assumptions translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign in the five-year plan are the management’s estimation currencies at the rate prevailing on the reporting date of growth and net profit including credit losses, estiare recognized in the income statement under the item mated by the Board of Directors. The assumptions are Net profit from financial transactions. based on both historical experience and market data. Property, plant and equipment The cash flow calculations have been made based on Items of property, plant and equipment are recognized five years of assumed cash flows and an estimated at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over final value at the end of the five-year period that is their useful life. The depreciation period for property, equal to the book value of the assets. No growth is plant and equipment is between 3 and 5 years. Impairassumed after the forecasting period. The Group conment testing takes place if there is an indication of a siders an unweighted Tier 1 capital ratio of 15% to be decline in value. reasonable. The discount rate ranges between 4.1% and 5.3% (5.2%) after tax, depending on country, and Intangible assets has been established on the basis of an assumed requirement for return on equity of 20%, as well as (i) Internally developed software market yield requirements in funding the assets. Costs of software maintenance are recognised as an expense when they arise. Development costs directly Based on the calculation described above, there was attributable to development and testing of identifiable no impairment of goodwill at year-end. Nor would a and unique software products controlled by the Group change in discount rate, which is the most sensitive are recognised as intangible assets when the following parameter (+1 percentage point) lead to any impaircriteria are met: ment. Goodwill was previously monitored at total • it is technically possible to complete the software level, but since 2014 goodwill has been monitored and so that it can be used, tested at operating segment level, based on relative • the entity’s intention is to complete the intangible values of the segments existing at the time of acquisiasset and use or sell it, tion. The carrying amount of goodwill is attributable • the conditions necessary to use or sell the software to Sweden at SEK 90 (93) million, to Norway at SEK exist, 114 (105) million and to Finland at SEK 47 (53) million. • it can be shown how the software generates probable future financial benefits, Financial assets • adequate technical, financial and other resources The Group classifies its financial assets in the following are available to complete the development and to categories: financial assets measured at fair value use or sell the software, and through profit and loss and loans and receivables. The • the expenditure attributable to the software during classification depends on the purpose for which the its development can be calculated in a reliable manfinancial asset was acquired. Management determines ner. the classification of the financial assets on initial recognition. Development costs are recognised as an asset in the balance sheet if it is probable that the future economic (i) Financial assets measured at fair value benefits will accrue to the company. Development through profit and loss costs not meeting the criteria for capitalisation are Financial assets measured at fair value through profit expensed as incurred. Development costs which have and loss are financial assets held for trading and those previously been recognised as an expense are not recfinancial assets that management at initial recognition ognised as an asset in the subsequent period. Developclassified to this category, i.e. designated at fair value. A ment costs for software recognised as an asset are financial asset is classified in this category if it is amortised over its estimated useful life, which is not acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the more than five years. short term. Derivatives are classified as held for trading as the Group does not apply hedge accounting. Assets (ii) Goodwill in this category, so-called derivatives, are classified as The carrying amount of goodwill is attributable to the current assets, i.e. with the intent to be used within 12 acquisition of Nordax Holding AB in 2010. The carrying months and are recognised under the items Other amount of customer relationships, which is an estimate assets. Nordax has chosen to classify bonds and other of the value of acquired customer databases, is also fixed-income assets as financial assets measured at fair attributed to goodwill. The intangible asset attributavalue through profit and loss (the fair value option) ble to customer databases is amortised over a period since the management at initial recognition classified of ten years. During the year Nordax Holding AB these assets to this category, i.e. designated at fair merged with Nordax Bank AB, consequently the goodvalue. will is now attributable to Nordax Bank AB. (ii) Loans and receivables Value in use Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial Goodwill relates to the whole Group, Nordax Holding assets, which have fixed or determinable payments AB. The recoverable amount was established at the and which are not listed on an active market. They are 73 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES included in current assets with the exception of items If, at a later time, the amount by which an asset needs with a due date more than 12 months after the balance to be impaired decreases and the decrease can be sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets. objectively attributed to an event after the impairment The Group’s loans and receivables consist of Lending was made (as in the case of an improvement in a borto credit institutions, Lending to the general public, rower’s creditworthiness), the previously made impairCash and bank balances at central banks and Other ment is reversed by reducing the amount of the proviassets in the balance sheet. sion. (iii) Recognition and measurment Financial liabilities Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised The Group classifies its financial liabilities in the followon the settlement date. Financial instruments are iniing categories: financial liabilities measured at fair tially recognised at fair value plus transaction value through profit and loss and other financial liabiliexpenses, which applies to all financial assets not recties. ognised at fair value through profit and loss. Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss (i) Financial liabilities measured at fair value are initially recognised at fair value, while related through profit and loss transaction costs are recognised in profit and loss. Financial liabilities measured at fair value through Financial assets are derecognised when the right to profit and loss are financial liabilities held for trading. receive cash flows from the instrument has expired or A financial liability is classified in this category if it is has been transferred and the Group has transferred acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the substantially all the risks and benefits associated with short term. Derivatives are classified as held for tradright of ownership. Financial assets measured at fair ing as the Group does not apply hedge accounting. value through profit and loss are recognised after the Change in fair value is recognised in the income statetime of acquisition at fair value. Loans and receivables ment item Net profit from financial transactions. Liabilare recognised at amortised cost with application of ities in this category are recognised under the items the effective interest method. Other liabilities. Gains and losses due to changes in fair value pertain(ii) Other financial liabilities ing to the category of financial assets measured at fair Other financial liabilities are recognised under the value through profit and loss are recognised in the items Liabilities to credit institutions, Deposits from income statement in the period in which they arise and the public, Issued securities and Subordinated liabiliare included in the income statement item Net profit ties and are measured at amortised cost with applicafrom financial transactions. tion of the effective interest method. Fair value of listed securities is based on current bid Where material covenants exist, this should be disprices. If the market for a financial asset is not active closed. (and for unlisted securities), the Group determines fair value by applying measurement techniques such as Lending use of information pertaining to recent transactions on Loan receivables intended to be held to maturity are an arm’s length basis, reference to the fair value of classified as financial assets. These are recognised in another instrument which is essentially equivalent and the balance sheet at amortised cost net of realised and analysis of discounted cash flows. In this respect, marexpected credit losses. Received arrangement comket information is used to as great an extent as possimissions are included in the cost of loan receivables. ble, while company-specific information is used to as small an extent as possible. Disbursement takes place immediately after granting, whereupon there are no commitments in granted, Cash and cash equivalents are defined as treasury bills non-disbursed loans. eligible for refinancing and lending to credit institutions. Pledged cash and cash equivalents according to Credit losses consist of write-off for the year of Note 27 are available to Nordax in connection with observed credit losses, provisions for loans with an monthly settlement under financing arrangements and individually identified loss event (individually identiare thus defined as cash and cash equivalents. fied loss even is understood to mean receivables past due more than 180 days) and group provision for (iv) Impairment of assets carried at amortised receivables measured as a group (past due 1-180 days). cost No individual reservation is made for a loss event until The bank assesses, at each reporting date, whether the receivable is 180 or more days past due. there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset When the value of a loan receivable has declined, the or group of assets has declined in value, and impaircarrying amount is written down to the recoverable ment is made, only if there is objective evidence that amount, which is defined as the estimated future cash they have declined in value as a result of one or more flow discounted by the initial effective interest rate for events that have occurred after the asset was first recthe instrument at the time of impairment, i.e. the initial ognised (“loss event”), and the loss event (or loss effective interest rate. events) has (or have) an impact on future expected cash flows from the financial assess or from the group See note 3 and 4. of financial assets and this impact can be estimated with reasonable assurance. 74 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Interest income For defined-contribution pension plans, the Group Interest income is recognised as income with applicapays contributions to publicly or privately administion of the effective interest method. The Group recogtered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, connizes transaction costs such as opening fees, invoicing tractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further fees and monthly fees as income when it is probable payment obligations once the contributions have been that future economic benefits will flow to the company paid. The contributions are recognised as the pension and these benefits can be measured reliably, and will is vested. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an be recognised as interest income. Transaction costs asset to the extent that cash repayment or decrease in are included in the calculation of effective interest rate. future payments can accrue to the Group. Commission income (ii) Shared-based payments Commission income consists of insurance commission. Nordax introduced a management incentive plan Income comprises the fair value of the amount that combines cash and shares in 2015 and the Annual received or which will be received for services sold in General Meeting 2016 approved a similar plan for 2016. the Group’s operating activities. The Group recognizes The incentive plans comprise two remuneration income when it is probable that future economic benecomponents: a cash component and a share-based fits will flow to the company and these benefits can be component in the form of deferred restricted stock measured reliably. units. Shares and social security contributions are expensed in the period in which the free shares are Net profit/loss from financial transactions earned, which is the same year that the variable Net profit/loss from financial transactions include realremuneration is earned. After the Board of Directors ised gains and losses on all financial instruments. Gains has decided on the variable remuneration, shares can and losses include gains and losses from changes in be acquired within the framework of Nordax’s longthe exchange rate and profit from investments in term incentive plans at the prevailing market price on bonds and other fixed-income securities. the date of the Board’s decision. Repurchased shares are recognised as a reduction in equity. General administrative expenses General administrative expenses refers to employee The deferred restricted stock units convert to shares benefit expenses and other administrative expenses, when the qualifying period has elapsed. The qualifying such as IT expenses, external services (audit, other serperiod is 3 years for all participants in the plan with the vices), costs of premises, telephone and postage and exception of the CEO, who has a qualifying period of other expenses. 5 years. To qualify for restricted stock units, the participant must remain an employee throughout Tax the qualifying period. Recognised income taxes comprise tax which is payable or receivable pertaining to the current year, adjustNo share-based payments have been made up to and ments pertaining to the current tax of previous years including 2016. and changes in deferred tax. Tax liabilities/assets are measured at what, in the company’s assessment, is due Segment to be paid to or received from the tax authority. The segment information is presented based on the perspective of the chief operating decision-maker, and Deferred tax is recognised in its entirety on all tempothe segments are identified on the basis of internal rary differences arising between tax base and carrying reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, who is identiamount of assets and liabilities for tax purposes. fied as the chief operating decision-maker. Nordax has Deferred income tax is recognised with application of the following operating segments: Sweden, Norway, the tax rates applicable on the balance sheet date. Finland, Denmark and Finland which reflects Nordax’s lending portfolio. Income not directly attributable to Earnings per share segments is allocated with effect from 2014 with alloBasic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss for cation keys in accordance with internal principles that the year attributable to shareholders of the company the senior management considers to provide a fair by the weighted average number of ordinary shares allocation to the segments. The chief operating decioutstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per sion-maker mainly follows the income concept of share is the same as undiluted earnings per share since operating income. there was no dilution. New and revised standards adopted by the Group Employee benefits None of the IFRS standards or IFRIC interpretations that are mandatory for the first time in the financial (i) Pension expenses year commencing on 1 January 2016 have had a mateThe Group’s pension plans are funded through payrial impact on the Group’s income statement or balments to insurance companies. The Group only has ance sheet. Revisions of the Annual Accounts defined contribution pension plans. A defined-contriAct for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies bution plan is a pension plan under which the Group and FFFS 2008:25 have led to changes in presentation pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity. The and disclosures. Group has no legal or informal obligations to pay further contributions if this legal entity does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees all the benefits relating to employee service in current and prior periods. 75 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES New applicable standards, amendments and interpreincurred losses. Financial assets are divided into three tations of existing standards that have not yet entered stages based on the risk of default. Stage 1 comprises into force and have not been adopted early by the assets that have not had a significant increase in credit Group. risk, stage 2 comprises assets that have had a significant increase in credit risk, and stage 3 comprises IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the classificaimpaired assets. In stage 1 provisions correspond to tion and measurement, including impairment, of finan12-month expected credit losses. In stage 2 and 3 procial assets and liabilities, as well as hedge accounting. visions correspond to lifetime expected credit losses. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July An important aspect affecting the size of the provi2014. It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that address the sions according to IFRS 9 is the trigger for transferring classification and measurement of financial instruan asset from stage 1 to stage 2. The Group must ments. The standard will be applied to financial years decide which parameters to use to determine the beginning 1 January 2018 and has been adopted by the increase in credit risk and how much these parameters EU. Prospective application is permitted. The Group have to change for them to entail a significant increase will not apply IFRS 9 prospectively. in accordance with the rules. Customers who are past due more than 30 days on their payments and customIFRS 9 retains a mixed measurement model but simpliers which an elevated risk relative to the established fies it in certain respects. There will be three measurerisk level are transferred to stage 2 according to the ment categories for financial assets: amortised cost, Group’s preliminary definition. fair value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss. How an instrument is In the current model the provision for loans with indiclassified depends on the company’s business model vidually identified loss events (receivables past due and the instrument’s characteristics. There will be more than 180 days) and collective provision for colthree business models for debt instruments that are lectively measured receivables is based on an estabfinancial assets that determine which valuation catelished model where the criterion for a loss event is the gory to apply. To recognise a financial asset at amordelayed payment of principal and interest. A loss event tised cost requires, apart from it being consistent with in the existing model is not expected, however, to fully the business model, that the asset’s contractual terms correspond to the trigger that moves an item from catat any point in time only give rise to cash flows that are egory 1 to 2 according to IFRS 9. payments of the principal amount and interest. Even if the financial asset meets the definition for the business When the Group estimates losses during the remaining model and the cash flows are only payments of the term according to IFRS 9, they are based on probabiliprincipal amount and interest, the company can, as in ty-weighted, forward-looking information. The work to IAS 39, choose to apply recognition at fair value determine macroeconomic scenarios to take into through profit and loss. Debt instruments that are account the nonlinear aspects of expected credit financial assets and meet the definition of SPPI (Solely losses is underway and has not yet been finalised. The Payment of Principal and Interest) but whose business use of forward-looking information will increase commodel does not lead to recognition at amortised cost plexity and make the provisions more dependent on are recognised at fair value through other comprehenmanagement’s view of economic development. sive income or profit and loss depending on the business model. Investments in equity instruments are recThe Group expects, in accordance with the prospectus ognised at fair value through profit and loss, but there from the IPO 2015, credit loss provisions to increase is also an option upon initial recognition to recognise because even performing assets are included in the the instrument at fair value through other comprehencalculation of expected credit losses. The new requiresive income. There is then no reclassification to profit ments are expected to increase the provisions for and loss when the instrument is divested. Independent credit losses and reduce equity for the initial applicaderivatives are recognised at fair value through profit tion period. This is not expected to have a significant and loss. In the case of financial liabilities, classification effect on large exposures. The impact on capital adeand measurement do not change, apart from when a quacy cannot yet be determined, since the Basel Comliability is recognised at fair value through profit and mittee is working on new rules for the transition to loss based on the fair value alternative. Value changes IFRS 9, and these rules are not yet complete. When any attributable to changes in own credit risk are then rectransition rules cease to apply, the effects of IFRS 9 are ognised in other comprehensive income. expected to have a negative impact on capital adequacy, since the decrease in equity is expected to IFRS 9 changes the requirements for application of reduce Common Equity Tier 1 capital. hedge accounting by replacing the 80-125 criteria with requirements for the financial relationship between IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is the hedging instruments and hedged asset and by having new standard for revenue recognition. IFRS 15 replaces the same hedging ratio as used in risk management. IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts, as Hedging documentation is also little changed in comwell as all associated interpretations (IFRIC and SIC). parison with what was prepared under IAS 39. The In IFRS 15 revenue is recognised when the customer Group currently does not apply hedge accounting. gains control of the sold goods or services, a principle that replaces the previous principle that revenue is recIFRS 9 also introduces a new model for calculating the ognised when risks and benefits are assumed by the credit loss provision arising from expected credit buyer. The basic principle in IFRS 15 is that a company losses. This means that the credit losses are recogrecognises revenue in a way that best reflects the nised based on expected loss events and not on transfer of the promised goods or service to the cus76 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES tomer. A company can choose between full retroactivcash flow from operating activities. Recognition for ity or prospective application with additional disclothe lessor will not be significantly affected. Differences sures. The standard will be applied to financial years compared to the current standard can arise due to the beginning 1 January 2018 and has been adopted by the new definition of a lease. In IFRS 16 a contract is, or EU. Prospective application is permitted. The Group contains, a lease if it conveys a right to control an idenwill not apply IFRS 15 prospectively. The Group has not tified asset for a period of time in exchange for payyet evaluated the effects of IFRS 15. ment. The standard will be applied to financial years beginning 1 January 2019 and has not been adopted by IFRS 16 Leases mainly affects recognition for lessees the EU. Prospective application is permitted of IFRS 15 and will mean that nearly all leases are recognised in is applied from the same reporting date. The Group the statement of financial position. The standard elimihas not yet evaluated the effects of IFRS 16. nates the distinction between operating and finance leasing in IAS 17 and requires that a right to utilise the None of the IFRS standards or IFRIC interpretations leased asset is recognised as an asset in the statement that have not yet entered into force are expected to of financial position and that a financial liability correhave had a material impact on the Group. sponding to the lease payments is recognised. A voluntary exception can be made for short-term conChanges in accounting policies tracts and contracts with marginal value. The income During 2016, the accounting policies remained essenstatement will also be affected because expenses are tially the same as in 2015. higher at the beginning of the contract and lower at the end. Operating profit is affected by the replaceParent Company ment of lease expenses with interest expenses and The Parent Company’s annual report has been predepreciation/amortisation. Cash flow from operating pared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act activities will be higher since payments of the principal (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Accounting amount in the lease liability are recognised as cash Standards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 “Accountflow from financing activities and only the part of the ing for legal entities”. payment that refers to interest can be recognised as 77 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 3 Significant accounting estimates Nordax has made a number of significant estimates the variable rate instrument at the time of impairment and assumptions affecting the measurement of assets of the instrument. and liabilities in the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated Management uses estimates based on historical credit against previous experience and other factors, such as losses for assets with the same credit risk and attribanticipated future events. utes as those in the loan portfolio. The methods and assumptions used to forecast future cash flows are The measurement of lending to the general public reviewed regularly to reduce the difference between includes non-observable inputs and therefore belongs estimated and actual losses. to Level 3. The value has been established by calculating the present value of the expected future cash flows Calculation of fair value of the assets with a discount rate. The future expected The fair values of financial instruments which are cash flows have been based on the size of the portfolio traded in an active market (such as financial instruat the end of the balance sheet date and an expected ments held for trading and available-for-sale financial future cash flow of 15 years, which is the maximum instruments) are based on quoted market prices at the term. The Group considers an unweighted Tier 1 capital balance sheet date. A market is regarded as active if ratio of 15% to be reasonable. The discount rate ranges quoted prices from an exchange, broker, industry between 4.1% and 5.3% (5.2%) after tax, depending on group, pricing service or regulatory authority are eascountry, and has been established on the basis of an ily and regularly available, and these prices represent assumed requirement for return on equity of 20%, as actual and regularly occurring arm’s length market well as market yield requirements in funding the assets. transactions. The quoted market price used for the Group’s financial assets is the current bid price. These Impairment of loan receivables, credit risk instruments belong to Level 1. The Nordax Group regularly reviews its credit portfolios in order to identify impairment losses. In order to Fair value of financial instruments not traded in an determine whether impairment should be recorded active market are established using inputs other than through profit or loss, an assessment is made of quoted market prices that are observable for the asset whether there are indications of reductions in future or liability, either directly (i.e. in the form of quoted estimated cash flows from receivables in the credit prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from quoted prices). portfolio. These indications may be a decline in payMarket data is used as far as possible when such data is ment status among a group of debtors or worsened available. If all significant inputs required for the fair economic conditions correlating with suspension of value measurement of an instrument are observable payments in the portfolio. the instrument belongs to Level 2. When the value of a loan receivable has declined, the In cases where one or several significant inputs are not carrying amount is written down to the recoverable based on observable market information the instruamount, which is defined as the estimated future cash ment is classified as Level 3. The company does not flow discounted by the initial effective interest rate for have any financial liabilities measured at Level 3. Note 4 Financial risk management Financial risk factors liquidity. Risk management is supervised by the risk Through its operations, the Group is exposed to both control function which reports to the Board of Direccredit risks and other financial risks, market risk tors in accordance with FFFS 2014:1. (including currency risk, interest-rate risk at fair value, interest-rate risk in cash flow and price risk) and liquid(i) Credit risks in general ity risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy Lending activities are based on policies adopted by focuses on managing credit risks which have been the Board of Directors. All loans are assessed in a septaken intentionally and minimising the potentially arate, centrally located department in the Group. adverse effects of unpredictability in the financial markets. The Group employs derivative instruments to As consumer loans are provided without physical colhedge certain risk exposure. lateral, credit assessment is an important element. To obtain a loan, the customer and submitted application Risk management is handled primarily by a credit documents must fulfil a number of policy rules, such as department and a central treasury department in minimum income, minimum age, maximum indebtedaccordance with policies determined by the Board of ness and no record of non-payment. Decisions on Directors. The treasury department identifies, evaluloans are based on creditworthiness, which is deterates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation mined using a model for calculating the probability with the Group’s operational units. The Board draws up that a borrower will be able to adhere to the concluded written policies both for overall risk management and agreements (“credit scoring”). A customer’s credit for specific areas, such as credit risk, foreign-currency score determines, for instance, how much he or she risk, interest-rate risk, use of derivative and non-derivwill be able to borrow. The credit decision is additionative financial instruments and investment of surplus ally based on a calculation of affordability to ensure 78 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES that the customer is able to repay the loan. The ity to manage and control credit risk. Great emphasis is affordability calculation assesses the customer’s placed on establishing procedures to deal with this. income, housing expenses, borrowing costs and living Among other things, reporting takes place at least expenses. In cases where it is not possible to obtain monthly to the management team and the Board of income and debt information from credit reference Directors. Credit risk reporting is also a standing agencies the customer is required to submit further agenda item at each Board meeting. The risk control information in addition to the application documents, and compliance unit perform regular checks to ensure such as a salary specification and tax return, to confirm that loans are issued in accordance with the instruchis or her stated income and debts. This information is tions adopted by the Board. Under the instructions, used to assess the customer’s financial situation, for any deviations must be reported to the Board. When instance by calculating the customer’s debt ratio and a the Group has received loans from external parties, “left to live on” amount. these parties also perform regular and extensive credit risk assessments. Credit risks in other counterparty relationships, such as derivatives and financial investments, are regulated (iv) Principles for credit risk provisions by a policy adopted by the Board of Directors. CollatPrinciples for credit risk provisions are indicated in eral agreements are used to limit counterparty risks in Note 2 and Note 3. When the value of a loan receivable derivative contracts. has declined, the carrying amount is written down to the recoverable amount, which is defined as the esti(ii) Measurement of credit risk mated future cash flow discounted by the initial effecThe credit risk in the portfolio is measured against the tive interest rate for the instrument at the time of specified targets on an ongoing basis. The measureimpairment. Management uses estimates based on hisments are based partly on how loans perform over torical credit losses for assets with the same credit risk time, how old the individual loans are (“vintage”) and and attributes as those in the loan portfolio. The meththe maturity of the overall portfolio. Measurements are ods and assumptions used to forecast future cash made depending on the risk that a loan will fall into flows are reviewed regularly to reduce the difference arrears and whether it has been impaired. Continuous between estimated and actual losses. measurements are also made on a segment basis. The applicable credit regulations and scoring models are Provisions are calculated for loans with an individually followed up continuously to ensure the effectiveness identified loss event (individually identified loss even is of applied regulations and models. The results of these understood to mean receivables past due more than measurements are used as a basis for any adjustments 180 days), and group provision for receivables measto credit regulations and scoring models. ured as a group (due 1 180 days) is based on an established model. The criteria for determining whether a (iii) Risk management and control loss has occurred are delays in the payment of princiThe Group’s continued operations depend on its abilpal and interest. MAXIMUM EXPOSURE TO CREDIT RISK All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Credit risk exposures relate to the balance sheet as follow: Lending to credit institutions 1,672 1,810 Lending to the general public 12,794 10,841 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 959 1,157 Total 15,425 13,808 The assets above are recognised at carrying amount in accordance with the balance sheet. 79 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES LENDING TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC Allocation of provision 31 december 2016 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Germany TOTAL past due receivables Not yet past due 4,021 4,719 109 1,957 732 11,538 Past due 30 days 50 143 3 80 15 291 -30 10% Past due 60 days 28 63 2 33 9 135 -33 24% Past due 90 days 28 39 2 12 4 85 -32 37% Past due 120-150 days 24 41 0 18 6 89 -46 52% Past due 180 days or more 685 683 308 361 38 2,075 -1,278 62% Total past due 815 969 315 504 72 2,675 -1,419 53% Total 4,836 5,688 424 2,461 804 14,213 Reserve1 -417 -470 -290 -199 -43 -1 419 Total lending to the general public 4,419 5,218 134 2,262 761 12,794 LENDING TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC Allocation of provision 31 december 2015 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Germany TOTAL past due receivables Not yet past due 3,690 3,772 150 1,699 537 9,848 Past due 30 days 44 96 5 82 8 235 -23 10% Past due 60 days 21 37 3 27 4 92 -20 22% Past due 90 days 18 28 3 14 2 65 -24 36% Past due 120-150 days 29 29 1 23 3 85 -43 51% Past due 180 days or more 574 513 292 282 13 1,674 -1,048 63% Total past due 686 703 304 428 30 2,151 -1,158 54% Total 4,376 4,475 454 2,127 567 11,999 Reserve 1 -351 -350 -275 -163 -19 -1,158 Total lending to the general public 4,025 4,125 179 1,964 548 10,841 1 Provision for receivables which are more than 180 days past due are assessed individually and total SEK -1,278 (-1,048) million. The group provision is SEK -141 (-110) million. The difference between the provision recognised above and credit losses as indicated in the income statement is due to exchange rate effects, which are accounted for under Net profit from financial transactions. When a loan becomes past due more than 180 days the carrying amount is written down to the recoverable amount, which is defined as the estimated future cash flow discounted by the initial effective interest rate for the instrument at the time of impairment. Expected recoveries are assumed to be generated up to 13 years from the date on which the receivable becomes past due more than 180 days. The methods and assumptions used to forecast future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce the difference between estimated and actual losses. The senior management uses estimates based on historical data and forecasts for longer periods where there are no own historical data. 80 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES PROVISION FOR CREDIT LOSSES All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Provision for loans with individually identified loss events 1 Opening reserve at start of year -1,158 -957 allocated during the year -96 -92 foreign exchange effects 2 -24 1 Provision for loans with individually identified loss events -1,278 -1,048 Group provision for receivables measured as a group 3 Opening reserve at start of year -110 -87 allocated during the year -24 -28 foreign exchange effects 2 -7 5 Group provision for receivables measured as a group at end -141 -110 Total provision for credit losses -1,419 -1,158 1 Individually identified loss events refer to loans which are more than 180 days past due 2 Exchange-rate effects are recognised in Net profit/loss from financial transactions 3 Group valued receivables and performing receivables where no loss event has yet been identified pertain to loans past due between one and 180 days CREDIT QUALITY All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Credit quality pertaining 1 Rating A 828 707 Rating B 2,355 1,982 Rating C 4,662 3,843 Rating D 3,103 2,712 Rating E 418 445 No rating 172 159 Total 11,538 9,848 1 Credit quality is based on ratings A to E, where A is the lowest risk and E is the highest risk. Creditworthiness is determined using a model for calculating the probability that a borrower will be able to adhere to the concluded agreements (“credit scoring”). Regarding credit quality for lending to credit institutions and bonds and other interest bearing securities, please see Note 4 under Information on liquidity risk. 81 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Risk concentrations in financial assets with credit risk exposure – geographical areas A breakdown of credit exposure by geographical area is presented below. The values are carrying amounts. The allocations are based on the domiciles of borrowers. CREDIT EXPOSURE 31 december 2016 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Germany TOTAL Lending to credit institutions 1,672 1,672 Lending to the general public 4,419 5,218 134 2,262 761 12,794 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 959 959 Total 7,050 5,218 134 2,262 761 15,425 31 december 2015 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Germany TOTAL Lending to credit institutions 1,810 1,810 Lending to the general public 4,025 4,125 179 1,964 548 10,841 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1,157 1,157 Total 6,992 4,125 179 1,964 548 13,808 No credit limits were exceeded during the year. Market risk The Board of Directors has adopted a policy stipulating that the Group continually measures and reports Foreign exchange risk interest rate risk. This is divided into two parts: fixed The Group is active in the Nordic countries and Gerrate deposits and other interest rate risk. Deposits with many and is exposed to currency risks arising from a fixed interest rate are measured through a parallel currency exposure in relation to NOK, DKK and EUR. shift downward on the interest rate curve of 2.0 units The most significant currency risk arises in the translawith an interest rate floor of 0% and has a limit of 40 tion of receivables and liabilities in foreign currency. MSEK (N/A). Other interest rate risk is measured The Group’s policy is to largely limit the risk by matchthrough a parallel shift upward of the interest rate ing assets and liabilities in the same currency. Derivacurve of 2.0 units with a limit of 20 MSEK (20). The tives are used when considered necessary to attain actual exposures at year-end were 11 MSEK (N/A) and this balance. The Group also protects the capital ade4 MSEK (11), respectively. quacy ratio against any exchange rate effects with respect to the portfolios in foreign currency, which Lending to the public, lending to credit institutions, results in exchange rate effects in the income statebonds and other fixed-income securities have an averment. The impact due to exchange rate effects on the age fixed interest term of less than three months. portfolios is consequently offset by a corresponding Funding through the asset-backed securities market effect on Group earnings. (securitised) and secured funding from two international banks has an average fixed interest term of one The Board of Directors has adopted a policy stipulatmonth. Corporate bonds have a fixed interest term of ing that the company continually measures and three months and deposits from the public have an reports its exchange rate risk. It contains established average fixed interest term of 0 months, with the limits for the maximum permitted net exposure in forexception of deposits with a fixed interest rate, which eign currencies. The current limit adopted by the have a term of up to two years. Other assets, liabilities Board is 1,000 MSEK (700) and actual exposure and equity do not accrue interest. amount is 752 MSEK (624), distributed into 438 (394) MNOK, 9 (13) MDKK and 29 (25) MEUR. A change of Liquidity risk 5% in the value of SEK against the other currencies Refer to the section on capital adequacy. would cause a change in profit/loss and in equity of 38 (31) MSEK, distributed into 22 MNOK (20), 0.5 MDKK (0.6) and 1.5 MEUR (1.3). Interest rate risk attributable to cash flow and fair value In principle, the Group’s assets and liabilities have a fixed interest term of one month. The Group’s interest rate risk is consequently very limited as regards both the fair value of assets and liabilities and the margin between interest income and interest expenses. 82 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES The table below presents an analysis of the Group’s date. The contractual maturity for issued securities financial liabilities to be settled net, broken down exceeds five years, see Note 22 for further information. according to the time remaining until the first contracThe amounts stated in the table are the contractual, tual date of early redemption, at the balance sheet undiscounted cash flows. MATURITY DISTRIBUTION Less More 31 december 2016 than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years than 5 years TOTAL Liabilities to credit institutions 49 49 1,323 2,609 4,030 Deposits from the general public 6,846 295 7,141 Issued securities 55 55 637 3,136 3,883 Subordinated liabilities 16 16 46 314 392 Trade payables and other liabilities 46 46 Total 7,012 415 2,006 6,059 15,492 Less than 1 More than 5 31 december 2015 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years years TOTAL Liabilities to credit institutions 59 2,923 2,982 Deposits from the general public 6,001 6,001 Issued securities 508 1,653 1,091 3,252 Subordinated liabilities 15 15 46 312 388 Trade payables and other liabilities 33 33 Total 6,616 4,591 1,137 312 12,656 Capital adequacy analysis Capital adequacy information in this document refers Information on the consolidated situation to information the disclosure of which is provided for The ultimate parent company in the consolidated situin Chapter 6, Sections 3-4 of the Regulations and Genation is Nordax Group AB (publ). The following comeral Recommendations (FFFS 2008:25) on the annual panies are included in the consolidated financial stateaccounts of credit institutions and securities compaments for the group of financial companies in nies (investment firms) and information as referred to accordance with full IFRS and in the group-based in the Regulations and General Recommendations on financial statements for calculation of capitalrequirecapital adequacy and risk management (FFFS 2014:12) ments: Nordax Group AB (publ), Nordax Bank AB of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. As of (publ), Nordax Finans AS, PMO Sverige OY, Nordax the first quarter of 2014 a capital adequacy analysis for Nordic AB (publ), Nordax Sverige AB, Nordax Nordic 4 the consolidated situation is reported. Other informaAB (publ), Nordax Sverige 4 AB (publ), Nordax Nordic tion required under FFFS 2014:12 is provided on the 2 AB och Nordax Nordic 3 AB (publ). Company’s website, www.nordaxgroup.com. 83 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES CAPITAL ADEQUACY Consolidated situation All amounts in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 OWN FUNDS Common Equity Tier 1 capital 1,942 1,678 Deduction from own funds -302 -309 Total Common Equity Tier 1 capital 1,640 1,369 Tier 2 capital 234 217 Net own funds 1,874 1,586 Risk exposure amount for credit risk 10,208 8,745 Risk exposure amount for market risk 752 624 Risk exposure amount for operational risks 4 754 1,465 Total risk exposure amount (risk weighted assets) 11,714 10,834 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 14.01% 12.64% Tier 1 capital ratio 14.01% 12.64% Total capital ratio 16.01% 14.64% Capital adequacy ratio (own funds / capital requirement) 2.00 1.83 Total Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement including buffer requirement 8.13% 7.72% of which, capital conservation buffer requirement 2.50% 2.50% of which, countercyclical capital buffers 1.13% 0.72% Common Equity Tier 1 capital available for use as buffer 1 9.51% 8.14% Specification own funds Common Equity Tier 1 capital: Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 843 847 of wich share capital 111 111 -of wich other contributed capital 736 736 of wich repurshase of own shares -4 Retained earnings 831 691 Independently reviewed interim profits 446 195 Calculated dividend 2 -178 -55 Common Equity Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 1,942 1,678 Regulatory adjustments: Intangible assets -297 -309 Own shares -4 Total regulatory adjustments to Common Equity Tier 1 -302 -309 Common Equity Tier 1 1,640 1,369 Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital instrument 234 217 Tier 2 capital 234 217 Total capital 1,874 1,586 Specification of risk exposure amount 3 Institutional exposures 336 365 Covered bonds 20 41 Household exposures 8,966 7,629 Past due items 840 669 Other items 46 41 Total risk exposure amount for credit risk, Standardised Approach 10,208 8,745 Exchange rate risk 752 624 Total risk exposure amount for market risk 752 624 Operative risk according to alternative Standardized Method 2016 and Basic Indicator Approach 2015 4 754 1,465 Total risk exposure amount for operational risks 754 1,465 LEVERAGE RATIO Exposure measure for calculating leverage ratio 15,479 13,862 Leverage ratio 10.81% 9.88% 1 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 14.01% less the statutory minimum requirement of 4.5% excluding the buffer requirement. A total capital requirement of a further 3.63% of which capital conservation buffer of 2.50% and 1.13% for the countercyclical capital buffers is also applicable. 2 C alculated dividend consists of MSEK 178 attributable to the current financial year. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has approved Nordax’s application to include earnings in the capital base on condition that the responsible auditor has reviewed the surplus, that the surplus has been calculated in accordance with applicable accounting rules, that predicted costs and dividends have been deducted in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and that the calculation has been made in accordance with Regulation (EU)No 241/2014. 3 The capital requirement is 8% of the risk exposure amount pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR). 4 D uring the period the method for calculating operational risk was changed from basic indicator approach to the alternative standardized method. 84 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Internal capital requirement calculated. Key ratios from the balance sheet (such as As of 31 December 2016 the internal capital assessthe cash ratio, loan-to-deposit ratio, liquidity coverage ment for Nordax consolidated situation amounted to ratio, net stable funding ratio and deposit usage) are 97 MSEK (83). The internal capital requirement is calculated and monitored over time to illustrate the assessed using Nordax internal models for economic financial structure and the Group’s liquidity risk. capital and is not fully comparable to the estimated Liquidity risk is measured monthly for different scenarcapital requirement published by the Swedish Finanios and events (such as less favorable advance rates cial Supervisory Authority due to differences in and changed cash flows) and illustrated separately and assumptions and methodologies. in combination. Information on liquidity risk pursuant to FFFS 2014:12 The contingency plan specifies a clear division of The Group defines liquidity risk as the risk of failing to responsibilities and contains instructions for how the fulfill payment obligations at maturity without a signifiGroup should respond in a liquidity crisis situation. The cant increase in the cost of obtaining means of payment. plan specifies appropriate actions for managing the The Group uses asset-backed borrowing in which parts consequences of different crisis situations and conof the Group’s asset portfolios are pledged as collateral tains definitions of events which trigger and escalate for the loans. The Group’s long-term strategy is to match the contingency plan. The contingency plan has been lending assets with the maturities of liabilities. The strattested and updated. egy is aimed at achieving a diversified funding platform comprising equity, subordinated debt, asset backed As of 31 December 2016, Nordax had a liquidity coversecurities (“ABS”), bank warehouse age ratio (EBA definition) of 553% (676). As of the funding facilities, deposits from the general public and same date the net stable funding ratio was 127% (127), senior unsecured bonds. calculated in accordance with the Basel Committee’s definition, which may be altered when adopted by the The goal is to use funding sources which: EU. • Provide a high degree of matching, of currencies and interest period as well as maturities, between Nordax had a liquidity reserve at 31 December 2016 of assets and liabilities. MSEK 2,189 (2,552). Of these investments, 56 (55) per • Offer diversification in terms of markets, investors, cent was in Nordic banks, 9 (16) per cent in Swedish instruments, maturities, currencies, counterparties covered bonds and 35 (29) per cent in Swedish municiand geography. pal papers. All investments had credit ratings ranging • Carry a low liquidity risk and offer a high possibility from AAA to A+ from Standard & Poor’s, with an averof refinancing at maturity, as evidenced by price age rating of AA (except 27 MSEK in exposure to stability, regularity of issuance and a broad investor Avanza Bank AB). The average maturity was 43 (48) base. days. All bank holdings are accessible and all securities • Provide access to relatively large volumes, to meet are repo-able with central banks. the funding requirements for a growing balance sheet. At 31 December 2016 Nordax’s sources of funding comprised MSEK 2,427 (2,763) in funding through the The Group has an independent function for liquidity risk asset-backed securities market (securitized), MSEK control. The function reports directly to the Board and 500 (453) in senior unsecured bonds, MSEK 3,218 CEO.Liquidity is measured on a daily basis and reported (2,891) in warehouse funding facilities provided by to the Company’s management. Liquidity risk is reported international banks in addition to MSEK 7,135 (5,991) in to the Board of Directors at each board meeting. Deposits from the general public. The figures refer to the nominal amounts. Cash flows expected to result from the liquidation of all assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items are 85 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 5 Classification of financial assets and liabilities GROUP Financial instruments Investments measured at fair value held to Loans and Other financial 31 december 2016 through profit and loss maturity receivables liabilities TOTAL Designated Held for at initial trading recognition Assets Lending to credit institutions 1,672 1,672 Lending to the general public 12,794 12,794 Bonds and other fixed income 959 959 Derivatives 1 1 Total assets 1 959 14,466 15,426 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 3,205 3,205 Deposits from the general public 7,141 7,141 Issued securities 2,910 2,910 Subordinated liabilities 247 247 Total liabilities 13,503 13,503 Financial instruments Investments measured at fair value held to Loans and Other financial 31 december 2015 through profit and loss maturity receivables liabilities TOTAL Designated Held for at initial trading recognition Assets Lending to credit institutions 1,810 1,810 Lending to the general public 10,841 10,841 Bonds and other fixed income 1,157 1,157 Derivatives 3 3 Total assets 3 1,157 12,651 13,811 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 2,880 2,880 Deposits from the general public 6,001 6,001 Issued securities 3,187 3,187 Subordinated liabilities 246 246 Total liabilities 12,314 12,314 Trade receivables, trade payables and prepaid/accrued items are not included in the classification above as they are not tangible, and are recognised instead as Loan and receivables or Other financial liabilities. No offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities has taken place. 86 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 6 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities GROUP Fair value gain Carrying (+)/ Fair value 31 december 2016 amount Fair value loss (-) Assets Lending to credit institutions 1 1,672 1,672 Lending to the general public 2,4 12,794 14,952 2,158 Bonds and other fixed income 959 959 Derivatives 1 1 Total assets 15,426 17,584 2,158 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 1 3,205 3,205 Deposits from the general public 7,141 7,141 Issued securities 3 2,910 2,910 0 Subordinated liabilities 3 247 254 7 Total liabilities 13,503 13,510 7 Fair value gain Carrying (+)/ Fair value 31 december 2015 amount Fair value loss (-) Assets Lending to credit institutions 1 1,810 1,810 Lending to the general public 2,4 10,841 12,483 1,642 Bonds and other fixed income 1,157 1,157 Derivatives 3 3 Total assets 13,811 15,453 1,642 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 1 2,880 2,880 Deposits from the general public 6,001 6,001 Issued securities 3 3,187 3,205 18 Subordinated liabilities 3 246 254 8 Total liabilities 12,314 12,340 26 1  Fair value is deemed to be the same as the carrying amount, as these are of a short-term nature. 2 The measurement includes significant non-observable inputs and belongs to Level 3. 3 Fair value data for issued securities and debenture loans belong to Level 2, as the inputs for measurement are based directly or indirectly on quoted prices 4 Fair value for lending to the general public is calculated after tax. The value for 2015 has been adjusted according to the new method. The table below shows financial instruments carried at either directly in the form of quoted prices or indifair value based on the classification in the fair-value rectly, i.e. derived from quoted prices (Level 2). hierarchy. The different levels are defined as follows: • Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for • Inputs for the asset or liability which are not based identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) on observable market data (non observable inputs) • Inputs other than quoted market prices included in (Level 3) Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, No transfers between levels occurred in 2016. GROUP 31 december 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 TOTAL Assets Bonds and other fixed income securities 959 959 Derivatives 1 1 Total assets 959 1 960 31 december 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 TOTAL Assets Bonds and other fixed income securities 1,157 1,157 Derivatives 3 3 Total assets 1,157 3 1,160 87 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 7 Net interest income GROUP All amounts are in MSEK JAN-DEC 2016 JAN-DEC 2015 Interest income from the general public 1 1,351 1,251 Interest income from credit institutions 3 9 Total interest income 1,354 1,260 Interest expenses to the general public -91 -108 Interest expenses to credit institutions -147 -200 Interest expenses debenture loans -16 -25 Total income expenses -254 -333 Net interest income 1,100 927 1 Interest income on financial assets impaired totals SEK 64 million (SEK 53 million). Note 8 Commission income GROUP All amounts are in MSEK JAN-DEC 2016 JAN-DEC 2015 Insurance commission 16 16 Total 16 16 Note 9 Net profit from financial transactions GROUP All amounts are in MSEK JAN-DEC 2016 JAN-DEC 2015 Changes in exchange rates 64 -55 Profit from investments in bonds and other fixed-income securities -4 0 Group contributions Net profit/loss from financial transactions 60 -55 The Group profit pertains to profit/loss from changes in exchange rates in the net position and flows in operations related to lending in NOK and DKK as well as lending in EUR and profit from investments in bonds and other fixed-income securities. Note 10 General administrative expenses GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Employee benefit expenses Salaries and fees -110 -101 Pension expenses -11 -11 Social security contributions -37 -36 Other employee benefit expenses -7 -7 Total employee benefit expenses -165 -155 Other administrative expenses IT expenses -29 -26 External services -34 -30 Costs of premises -10 -9 Telephone and postage -25 -26 Other -28 -15 Total other administrative expenses -126 -106 Total general administrative expenses -291 -261 88 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Fees to auditors Pwc Audit engagement -1 -1 Audit work in addition to the Audit assignment -1 -1 Tax advisory services 0 0 Other services 1 0 -6 Total -2 -8 Mazars Other services -1 -1 Total -1 -1 KPMG Other services 1 0 -2 Total 0 -2 EY Other services 1 0 -2 Total 0 -2 Deloitte Other services 0 Total 0 Total expense for audit fees -3 -13 1 The greater part pertains to expenses arising in connection with the issuing of an offering memorandum and listing of Nordax shares on Nasdaq Stockholm, and the expenses are recognised under the item Non-recurring expenses. GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Specification of salaries and fees 1 Directors, Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives -21 -21 Other employees -94 -85 Total -115 -106 Breakdown of social security contributions Directors, Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives -5 -7 Other employees -32 -29 Total -37 -36 Breakdown of pension expenses Directors, Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives -3 -2 Other employees -8 -9 Total -11 -11 Breakdown of average number of employees (converted to full-time equivalents) Women 123 113 Men 69 66 Total 192 179 1 Of the total breakdown of salaries and fees, SEK 5 million pertains to fees invoiced for members of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. Regular working hours have been defines as available working time. This does not include overtimes or fulltime or parttime leave. The figures related to the full year. 89 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES GROUP Number 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Breakdown between women and men on the Board of Directors Women 3 2 Men 5 7 Total 8 9 Breakdown between women and men in the senior management Women 4 5 Men 4 2 Total 8 7 GROUP Basic salary/ Variable Pension All amounts are in TSEK Board fee remuneration cost Total Remuneration and other benefits 2016 Chairman A. Bernroth -1,600 -1,600 CEO M. Falch -2,502 -516 -591 -3,609 Director C. Beck -547 -547 Director K. Bonde -739 -739 Director H. Larsson -821 -821 Director J. Rosberg -602 -602 Director A. Rich 0 0 Director S. Trygg -739 -739 Other senior management (7 persons) -10,300 -3,061 -2,545 -15,906 Basic salary/ Variable Pension All amounts are in TSEK Board fee remuneration cost Total Remuneration and other benefits 2015 Chairman A. Bernroth 1 -861 -861 CEO M. Falch -2,716 -367 -427 -3,510 Director C. Beck -438 -438 Director K. Bonde -495 -495 Director D. Cohen 0 0 Director H. Larsson -520 -520 Director R. Pym 2 -931 -931 Director A. Rich 0 0 Director S. Trygg -616 -616 Other senior management (7 persons) -11,584 -1,565 -1,945 -15,094 1 Chairman of the board Oct-Dec 2015 (379 TSEK) 2 Chairman of the board Jan-Oct 2015 (829 TSEK) Social security contributions are included in provisions in variable remuneration for other senior management. 90 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Information on remuneration system shares for the 2016 plan (100,000 shares were repurInformation on the remuneration according to the chased for the 2015 plan). Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations on supervisory requirements and capital buffers (FFFS 2016 2015 2014:12) is provided on Nordax’s website www.nordaxgroup.com. Number of restricted share units: 129,231 90,709 Share price on day immediately 52.50 41.10 Share-based remuneration preceding the award decision: Nordax has a long-term management incentive plan Market value of units upon reward: 6,784,628 3,728,140 comprising the following remuneration components: 40% of the variable remuneration is paid out in cash in the same year that the decision to grant the remuneraCEO and other senior management tion is made, while 60% of the variable remuneration is The term of notice for the CEO is 6 months regardless of deferred for up to 3 years or, in the case of the CEO, 5 whether notice is given by the company or the employee. years (the qualifying period), in the form of restricted The CEO has a non-compete clause of 24 months, which share units. Deferral takes place each year when the prevents him from operating a competing business. variable cash remuneration is paid out. One requirement for a participant to be entitled to receive an The term of notice for other senior management is 4 award is that the participant remains an employee months for the employee and 9 months for the comthroughout the qualifying period. After the qualifying pany. If terminated during the period 20 Novemberperiod the restricted share units are converted to 1 January or 20 May – 20 July, the term of notice for the shares. One (1) restricted share unit entitles its holder employee is 6 months instead of 4 months. to one (1) share. If employment terminates before vesting, all deferred restricted stock units as a rule lapse on No employees, including the CEO, are eligible for sevthe date on which the participant ceases to be erance upon termination. employed. The shares awarded in the incentive plan are common shares that are entitled to dividends after All employees including the CEO are entitled to an the qualifying period. occupational pension according to the following premium scale: The number of restricted share units is determined from • Salary components to 7.5 income base amounts 4.5% the established amount for deferred variable remunera• Salary components over 7.5 income base amounts 30% tion divided by the market price of the Nordax share • Annual pensionable salary is calculated as monthly based on settlements on the business day immediately salary x 12.2. preceding the day of the award decision, i.e., 7 February 2017 for the 2016 plan (9 February 2016 for the 2015 plan). With respect to the incentive plans, reference is made to the section of the accounting policies on Within the framework of the long-term management employee benefits, as well as the section on shareincentive plan, Nordax intends to repurchase 130,000 based remuneration. Note 11 Non-recurring costs Non-recurring costs of MSEK -13 (75) refer to events reductions associated with the IPO were recognised and transactions which have an impact on profit of during the period, which reduced costs by a total of 13 such magnitude that it is prudent to highlight these MSEK. The same period in 2015 included a non-recurwhen the financial performance of the period is comring cost of 75 MSEK related to the IPO. The total net pared with earlier periods. Non-recurring items related cost for the IPO in 2015 amounted to 62 MSEK, after to VAT reversal from the IPO 2015 and other cost the dissolution of the reserve in 2016. Note 12 Credit losses GROUP All amounts are in MSEK JAN-DEC 2016 JAN-DEC 2015 Credit losses Write-offs for the period pertaining to actual credit losses -44 -37 Gross value of new receivables during the year past due more than 180 days -476 -371 Payments received during the year pertaining to loans past due more than 180 days 241 191 Adjustment to recoverable value pertaining to receivables past due more than 180 days 139 88 Total provision for loans with individually identified loss event 1 -96 -92 Group provision for receivables valued as a group 2 -24 -28 Credit losses for the year -164 -157 1 Individually identified loss event pertains to receivables past due more than 180 days, see also Note 4 under the section on credit risk. 2 Group provisions for loan receivables due between one and 180 days. 91 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 13 Tax on profit for the year GROUP All amounts are in MSEK JAN-DEC 2016 JAN-DEC 2015 Tax recognised in profit or loss Current tax on profit for the year -105 -60 Deferred tax expense/income -22 5 Tax on profit for the year -127 -55 Reconciliation of effective tax Reported profit before tax 573 250 Tax at current tax rate -127 -55 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses 0 0 Tax effect of non-taxable income 0 0 Tax on profit for the year according to the income statement -127 -55 Deferred tax recognised in the balance sheet 30 9 Opening balance deferred tax liability 9 29 Through profit or loss -5 -5 Related to temporary differences 26 -15 Closing balance deferred tax liability 30 9 Deferred tax liability is attributable to Deferred tax related to business combinations 54 54 Recognised in profit or loss -44 -39 Deferred tax liability attributable to temporary differences in accrued costs of loans 20 -6 Deferred tax liability according to balance sheet 30 9 Deferred tax to be regained in 12 months -4 -5 Deferred tax to be regained after 12 months 34 14 The applicable tax rate is the tax rate for income tax in the Group. The tax rate is 22% (22%). The deferred tax liability pertains to temporary differences in accrued arrangement fees for loans and handling fees. 92 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 14 Operating segments The segment information is presented based on the lending portfolio. Income not directly attributable to perspective of the chief operating decision-maker, and segments is allocated with distribution keys in accordthe segments are identified on the basis of internal ance with internal principles that the senior managereporting to the Chief Executive Officer, who is identiment considers to provide a fair allocation to the segfied as the chief operating decision-maker. Nordax has ments. The chief operating decision-maker mainly the following operating segments: Sweden, Norway, follows the income concept of operating income. Finland, Denmark and Finland which reflects Nordax’s GROUP JAN–DEC 2016 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Germany TOTALT Income statement Interest income 1 426 582 10 264 72 1,354 Interest expenses -60 -146 -2 -35 -11 -254 Total net interest income 366 436 8 229 61 1,100 Commission income 7 7 0 2 16 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -11 -8 0 -4 -2 -25 Operating expenses 2 -84 -88 -3 -43 -14 -232 Non-recurring costs 3 13 Marketing expenses 2 -32 -45 0 -26 -32 -135 Profit before credit losses 246 302 5 158 13 737 Credit losses -51 -81 0 -9 -23 -164 Operating profit 195 221 5 149 -10 573 Balance sheet Lending to the general public 4,419 5,218 134 2,262 761 12,794 JAN-DEC 2015 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Germany TOTALT Income statement Interest income 1 420 542 14 242 42 1,260 Interest expenses -108 -168 -4 -43 -10 -333 Total net interest income 312 374 10 199 32 927 Commission income 8 7 1 16 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -11 -5 0 -2 -2 -21 Operating expenses 2 -132 -113 -6 -43 -21 -315 Non-recurring costs 3 -75 Marketing expenses 2 -27 -49 0 -22 -27 -125 Profit before credit losses 150 214 4 133 -18 407 Credit losses -40 -70 -5 -27 -15 -157 Operating profit 110 144 -1 106 -33 250 Balance sheet Lending to the general public 4,025 4,125 179 1,964 548 10,841 1 Interest income refers to revenues from external customers. 2 Operating expenses consist of net results of financial transactions, other operating income, general administrative expenses and the portion of other operating expenses that does not pertain to marketing expenses. 3 Non-recurring expenses pertain to expenses arising in conjunction with the issuing of an offering memorandum and listing of Nordax shares on Nasdaq Stockholm. 93 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 15 Lending to credit institutions GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Banks 1,672 1,810 Total 1,672 1,810 The Group’s lending to credit institutions includes SEK 480 (597) million in pledged assets for liabilities to credit institutions and issued securities. Note 16 Lending to the general public GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Households 12,794 10,841 Total 12,794 10,841 The Group item includes SEK 9,479 (9,190) million in pledged assets for liabilities to credit institutions and issued securities. Lending takes place in the currency of the country concerned. The geographical breakdown is presented in Note 4. Of total lending, SEK 11,959 million (10,182) has a maturity of more than one year. Note 17 Bonds and other fixed-income securities GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Holdings broken down by issuer Swedish municipalities 755 745 Swedish covered bonds 204 412 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 959 1,157 All holdings are listed, SEK 0 million (106) has a maturity of more than one year and the remainder less than one year. Note 18 Tangible assets GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Non-current assets Cost at start of year 21 18 acquisitions during the year 2 4 disposals during the year -1 Cost at end of year 23 21 Accumulated and amortisation at start of year -13 -11 amortisation for the year -3 -3 reclassification between property, plant and equipment and intangible assets disposals during the year 1 Accumulated amortisation at end of year -16 -13 Carrying amount 7 8 94 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 19 Intangible assets GROUP Internally Contractual generated softclient ware develop31 december 2016 Goodwill relationships ment costs TOTAL Opening carrying amount 251 48 21 320 purchases 6 6 amortisation -14 -7 -21 Closing carrying amount 251 34 20 305 Cost 251 99 60 410 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses -65 -40 -105 Carrying amount 251 34 20 305 Internally generated Contractual software client development 31 december 2015 Goodwill relationships costs TOTAL Opening carrying amount 251 60 5 316 purchases 20 20 amortisation -12 -4 -16 Closing carrying amount 251 48 21 320 Cost 251 99 54 404 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses -51 -33 -84 Carrying amount 251 48 21 320 Note 20 Other assets GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Other 19 9 Total 19 9 Note 21 Liabilities to credit institutions GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Foreign banks 3,205 2,880 Total 3,205 2,880 For the above liabilities in the Group, collateral has been provided in an amount of SEK 5,567 (4,927) million for receivables attributable to Lending to the general public and SEK 169 (188) million to Lending to credit institutions. Granted credit totals SEK 3,218 (3,074) million. The Group’s strategy for liquidity risk is aimed at achieving a diversified funding platform comprising equity, subordinated debt, securitised assets (“ABS”), bank credit facilities, Deposits from the general public and corporate bonds. 95 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 22 Issued securities GROUP All amounts are in MSEK Term Early redemption 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Bonds issued by Nordax Sverige 4 AB, issued in SEK Dec 2038 Nov 2018 1,087 1,081 Bonds issued by Nordax Nordic AB, issued in NOK Oct 2028 Aug 2016 21 Bonds issued by Nordax Nordic 3 AB, issued in NOK Jan 2037 Jun 2017 1,326 1,632 Bonds issued by Nordax Bank AB, issued in SEK Mar 2019 497 453 Total 2,910 3,187 The foreign-exchange positions for securities issued in SEK and NOK are fully matched against assets in the currencies concerned. Securities issued in Nordic AB, Nordic 3 AB and Sverige 4 AB are listed on the Irish stock exchange. Securities issued in Nordax Bank AB are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. For the above liabilities, collateral has been provided in an amount of SEK 3,912 (4,262) million for receivables attributable to Lending to the general public and SEK 311 (409) million to Lending to credit institutions. The amounts above pertain to volumes issued to external investors. Note 23 Current tax liability GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Current tax liability 36 10 Total 36 10 Note 24 Other liabilities GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Trade payables 1 9 Other 15 15 Total 16 24 96 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 25 Subordinated liabilities GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Subordinated loans 247 246 Summa 247 246 SPECIFICATION 31 DECEMBER 2016 Currency Date of issue Principal amount Coupon rate Maturity 1 Subordinated bonds SEK 2015-03-12 250 Stibor 3 mon +5,75% 2025-03-18 31 December 2015 Currency Date of issue Principal amount Coupon rate Maturity 1 Subordinated bonds SEK 2015-03-12 250 Stibor 3 mon +5,75% 2025-03-18 1 First call date March 2020 Note 26 Pledged assets GROUP All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Pledged assets for own liabilities Lending to the general public 9,479 9,190 Lending to credit institutions 480 597 Total 9,959 9,787 Note 27 Contingent liabilities The Group does not have any contingent liabilities. Note 28 Transactions with related parties The Group has not had any transactions with related parties. Note 29 Significant events after balance sheet date No events with significant impact on the information in this report have occurred after the end of the reporting period. 97 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Parent Company income statement PARENT COMPANY 2014-12-02 All amounts in MSEK Not JAN-DEC 2016 2015-12-31 Net income 198 1 Operating expenses Personnel expenses 1 -5 -2 Other external expenses 7 -77 Total operating expenses 2 -79 Operating profit 200 -78 Profit/loss from financial investments Group contributions 0 141 Interest and similar expenses -1 0 Profit/loss from financial investments -1 141 Profit/loss after financial items 199 63 Tax on profit for the period NET PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD/COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 199 63 98 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Parent Company statement of financial position PARENT COMPANY Alla belopp anges i MSEK Not 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 ASSETS Financial assets Shares in Group companies 2 4,970 4,970 Total financial assets 4,970 4,970 Total non-current assets 4,970 4,970 Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 189 141 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 0 Total current receivables 190 141 Cash and bank balances 22 83 Total current assets 212 224 TOTAL ASSETS 5,182 5,194 EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 111 111 Other equity -4 Share premium reserve 4,859 4,859 Retained earnings, incl. net profit for the year 213 69 Total equity 5,179 5,039 Liabilities Current liabilities Accrued expenses and deferred income 3 0 Other liabilities 0 0 Liabilities to Group companies 0 155 Total current liabilities 3 155 Total liabilities 3 155 TOTAL EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES 5,182 5,194 99 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Parent Company statement of cash flows PARENT COMPANY 2014-12-02 All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 2015-12-31 Operating activities Profit after financial items 199 63 Adjustment for non-cash items Anticipated dividends -121 -141 Change in operating assets and liabilities Decrease/Increase in other assets -1 Decrease/Increase in other assets to Group companies 73 Decrease/Increase in other liabilities 3 Decrease/Increase in liability to Group companies -155 155 Cash flow from operating activities -2 77 Investing activities Acquisition of financial assets -4,970 Cash flow from investing activities -4,970 Financing activities Paid dividend -55 Repurchase own shares -4 New issue 4,970 Result of the liquidation of Nelson LuxCo Sarl 6 Cash flow from financing activities -59 4,976 Cash flow for the period -61 83 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 83 0 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 22 83 100 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Parent Company statement of changes in equity PARENT COMPANY  Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Total Share Other premium Retained All amounts are in MSEK Aktiekapital capital reserve earnings SHARE CAPITAL 2 MARCH 2014 1 1 Comprehensive income Net profit/loss for the year 63 63 Total comprehensive income 63 63 Transactions with shareholders Result of the liquidation of Nelson LuxCo Sarl 6 6 Intragroup restructuring 110 4,859 0 4,969 Transactions with shareholders 110 4,859 6 4,975 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2015 111 4,859 69 5,039 OPENING BALANCE 1 JANUARY 2016 111 4,859 69 5,039 Comprehensive income Net profit/loss for the year 199 199 Total comprehensive income 199 199 Transactions with shareholders Dividends paid -55 -55 Repurchase of own shares -4 -4 Transactions with shareholders -4 -55 -59 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2016 111 -4 4,859 213 5,179 The share capital consists of 110,945,598 ordinary shares of the same share class and with a quotient value of SEK 1. All shares have equal voting rights. 101 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND NOTES Note 1 Employee benefit expenses PARENT COMPANY All amounts are in MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Employee benefit expenses Salaries and fees -3 -2 Pension expenses -1 0 Social security contributions -1 0 Other employee benefit expenses 0 Total employee benefit expenses -5 -2 Note 2 Parent Company shares in Group companies PARENT COMPANY Corporate Identity Registered Share of Share of Number of Book value 31 december 2016 Number office equity votes shares SEK thousand Nordax Group AB 556993-2485 Stockholm 100% 100% 20,010,076 4,970,052 Nordax Bank AB (publ) 556647-7286 Stockholm 100% 100% 50,100,000 Nordax Sverige AB 556794-0126 Stockholm 100% 100% 100,000 Nordax Nordic AB (publ) 556787-1891 Stockholm 100% 100% 500,000 Nordax Nordic 2 AB 556823-4255 Stockholm 100% 100% 50,000 Nordax Nordic 3 AB (publ) 556961-5254 Stockholm 100% 100% 500,000 Nordax Nordic 4 AB (publ) 559049-5023 Stockholm 100% 100% 500,000 Nordax Sverige 4 AB (publ) 559007-7425 Stockholm 100% 100% 500,000 Nordax Finans AS, Norge 986 568 158 Oslo 100% 100% 100,000 PMO Sverige OY, Finland 1983408-0 Helsingfors 100% 100% 1,000 Total 4,970,052 PARENT COMPANY Alla belopp anges i MSEK 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Opening balance, cost 4,970 acquisitions 500 4,970 disposals -500 reclassification between property, plant and equipment and intangible assets amortisation Closing balance, cost 4,970 4,970 Opening balance, impairment Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Carrying amount 4,970 4,970 102 PROPOSED DISPOSITION OF PROFITS Note 3 Proposed disposition of profits THE FOLLOWING PROFITS ARE AT THE DISPOSAL OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING: All amounts are in SEK Retained earnings 4,873,522,859 Net profit/loss for the year 199,316,744 Total 5,072,839,603 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROPOSES THAT THE PROFITS BE APPROPRIATED AS FOLLOWS: All amounts are in SEK Dividend to shareholders of SEK 1.60 per share, total 177,144,957 carried forward to new account 4,895,694,646 Total 5,072,839,603 The Board of Directors proposes that the 2017 Annual pared in accordance with generally accepted accountGeneral Meeting that SEK 177,144,957 be distributed to ing principles in Sweden and the consolidated financial the shareholders at SEK 1.60 per share, and that the statements have been prepared in accordance with AGM authorise the Board of Directors to determine the international accounting standards as prescribed by date of payment of the dividend, which must fall the European Parliament and the Regulation (EC) before the next AGM. No dividend will be paid in relaNo1606/2002 dated July 19, 2002 on the application tion to the company´s own holding of shares. As a conof International Accounting Standards. The annual sequence of the Board’s proposal on disposition of financial reports and the consolidated financial stateprofits, the Board of Directors makes the following ments give a true and fair view of the Parent Compastatement: ny’s and the Group’s financial position and results of operations. It is further assured that the administration Nordax Group AB (publ) is to pay to the shareholders report for the Parent Company and Group provides a the part of the company’s profits not deemed to be true and fair overview of the development of the Parneeded to meet the requirements made by the nature, ent Company’s and Group’s business activities, finanscope and risks of the operation for the size of equity cial position and results of operations as well as the and the consolidation needs, liquidity and financial significant risks and uncertainties to which the Parent position in other respects of the Group. Company and its subsidiaries are exposed. The Board of Directors and the President and CEO cerStockholm the 22 March 2017 tify that the annual financial reports have been preArne Bernroth Christian A. Beck Katarina Bonde Chairman Director Director Morten Falch Andrew Rich Jenny Rosberg CEO, Director Director Director Synnöve Trygg Director Our audit report was issued 22 March, 2017 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Helena Kaiser de Carolis Authorised Public Accountant 103 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Independent auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Nordax Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556993-2485 Report on the annual accounts We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform and consolidated accounts sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, takOpinions ing into account the structure of the Group, the We have audited the annual accounts and consoliaccounting processes and controls, and the industry in dated accounts of Nordax Group AB (publ) for the which the group operates. year 2016, with the exception of the corporate governance statement on pages 49–65. The annual accounts We organised our audit to perform full scope audit of and consolidated accounts of the company are entities with high significance and risk to the group. included on pages 33–48 and 66–103 in this document. The procedures applied generally include an assessment and testing of controls over key business proIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared cesses related to the financial reporting, such as the in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and presprocess of credit provisions, tests of accounting ent fairly, in all material respects, the financial position records combined with analytical procedures. of parent company as of 31 December 2016 and its The audit was conducted during the year. In Novemfinancial performance and cash flow for the year then ber, we reported to the Board of Directors on our audit ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. of internal control over financial reporting and manThe consolidated accounts have been prepared in agement’s administration. We also conducted a review accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit of the Interim Reports at each quarter during 2016. At Institutions and Security Companies and present fairly, year end, we reported the results of our audit of the in all material respects, the financial position of the annual accounts and management’s administration to group as of 31 December 2016 and their financial perthe Board of Directors. formance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Materiality Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the The scope of our audit was influenced by our applicaAnnual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Security tion of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reaCompanies. Our opinions do not cover the corporate sonable assurance whether the financial statements are governance statement on pages 49–65. The statutory free from material misstatement. Misstatements may administration report is consistent with the other parts arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users We therefore recommend that the general meeting of taken on the basis of the financial statements. shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, includBasis for Opinions ing the overall materiality for the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with Internaas a whole. These, together with qualitative considerational Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally tions, helped us to determine the scope of our audit accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsiand the nature, timing and extent of our audit procebilities under those standards are further described in dures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indeindividually and in aggregate on the financial statependent of the parent company and the group in ments as a whole. accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responKey audit matters sibilities in accordance with these requirements. Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signifiWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is cance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolisufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our dated accounts of the current period. These matters opinions. were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and Our audit approach consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates, such as credit provisions, that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 104 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Key audit matter This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is Provision for credit losses found on pages 1–32 and 49–65. The Board of Directors Accounting of loan portfolios and calculations of and the Managing Director are responsible for this credit provisions are based on management’s judgother information. ments of future cash flows and discount rates. This includes management’s subjective judgments over Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated both timing of recognition of impairment and the accounts does not cover this other information and we estimation of the size of any such provision. do not express any form of assurance conclusion Nordax has models for calculating provision for regarding this other information. probable credit losses both on individually assessed loans and on a collective basis. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts Important areas for calculating provisions and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to relate to: read the information identified above and consider • Measurements on how loans perform over time whether the information is materially inconsistent with • Vintage of individual loans the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In • Maturity of the portfolio this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess As per 31 December, 2016 the accounting value whether the information otherwise appears to be of lending to the general public amounted to materially misstated. MSEK 12 794, whereof the provisioning reserve was MSEK – 1 419. We consider this to be a signifiIf we, based on the work performed concerning this cant part of the balance sheet. information, conclude that there is a material misstateRefer to Annual Report note 12 – Credit losses ment of this other information, we are required to report and note 4 – Financial risk management. that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Our audit procedures included a combination of The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are testing of controls over financial reporting relating to responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts the provision calculation procedures as well as suband consolidated accounts and that they give a fair stantive testing. presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts The testing of internal controls included procedures Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in relating to the governance structure of the credit proviaccordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the sion process. This includes management’s assessment Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Secuof the models for credit provisions, segregation of rity Companies. The Board of Directors and the Manduties within the approval process and key controls in aging Director are also responsible for such internal the lending process. control as they determine is necessary to enable the Substantive testing consisted of evaluating and valipreparation of annual accounts and consolidated dating the models and assumptions related to the calaccounts that are free from material misstatement, culation of the credit provisions. We assessed and whether due to fraud or error. compared the models and assumptions used to appropriate benchmarks in order to judge the reasonableIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated ness of the provisions. accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing We examined, compared and assessed historical Director are responsible for the assessment of the data to assess the certainty of the forecasts of cash company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a flows within the provisioning models. going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters We also examined and obtained support for a ranrelated to going concern and using the going concern dom sample of parameters and data used in the model basis of accounting. The going concern basis of of forecast future cash flows. We performed detailed accounting is however not applied if the Board of testing on a sample of data in the models and tested Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquithe classification for each credit class. date the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. Auditor’s responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden Auditor’s responsibility will always detect a material misstatement when it Our objective concerning the audit of the administraexists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and tion, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liaare considered material if, individually or in the aggrebility, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reagate, they could reasonably be expected to influence sonable degree of assurance whether any member of the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omisA further description of our responsibility for the audit sion which can give rise to liability to the company, or of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is • in any other way has acted in contravention of the available on Revisorsnämnden’s website: www.reviCompanies Act, the Banking and Financing Busisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/ ness Act, the Annual Accounts Act, the Annual rev_dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Security of the auditor´s report. Companies or the Articles of Association. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed Opinions appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonaconsolidated accounts, we have also audited the ble degree of assurance whether the proposal is in administration of the Board of Directors and the Manaccordance with the Companies Act. aging Director of Nordax Group AB (publ) for the year 2016 and the proposed appropriations of the compaReasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is ny’s profit or loss. not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the to liability to the company, or that the proposed approproposal in the statutory administration report and that priations of the company’s profit or loss are not in the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing accordance with the Companies Act. Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of Basis for Opinions the administration is available on Revisorsnämnden’s We conducted the audit in accordance with generally website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocuaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsiment/documents/rev_dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This bilities under those standards are further described in description is part of the auditor´s report. the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in The auditor’s examination of the corporate governaccordance with professional ethics for accountants in ance statement Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporesponsibilities in accordance with these requirements. rate governance statement on pages 49–65 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Our examination of the corporate governance stateopinions. ment is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corResponsibilities of the Board porate governance statement. This means that our of Directors and the Managing Director examination of the corporate governance statement is The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal different and substantially less in scope than an audit for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At conducted in accordance with International Standards the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standof whether the dividend is justifiable considering the ards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has requirements which the company’s and the group’s provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consoliA corporate governance statement has been prepared. dation requirements, liquidity and position in general. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 of the Annual Accounts The Board of Directors is responsible for the compaAct and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the ny’s organization and the administration of the compasame law are consistent with the other parts of the ny’s affairs. This includes among other things continuannual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in ous assessment of the company’s and the group’s accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit financial situation and ensuring that the company’s Institutions and Securities Companies. organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs Stockholm the 22 March 2017 otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfil the company’s Helena Kaiser de Carolis accounting in accordance with law and handle the Authorised Public Accountant management of assets in a reassuring manner. 106 BRIDGE STATUTORY TO ADJUSTED ACCOUNTS Bridge statutory to adjusted accounts BRIDGE STATUTORY TO ADJUSTED ACCOUNTS All amounts in MSEK JAN-DEC 2016 JAN-DEC 2015 Total operating income statutory accounts 1,176 888 Foreign exchange gain/loss -63 55 Adjusted total operating income 1,113 943 Total operating expenses statutory accounts 439 481 Non-recurring items 13 -74 Amortization of acquired intangible assets -13 -13 Adjusted total operating expenses 439 394 Marketing expenses -135 -125 Adjusted total operating expenses excluding marketing costs 304 269 Net credit losses (as reported) -164 -157 Operating profit statutory accounts 573 250 Non-recurring items -13 74 Foreign exchange gain/loss -63 55 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 13 13 Adjusted operating profit 510 392 Tangible equity 1,815 1,413 Shareholders’ equity 2,120 1,733 Intangible assets -305 -320 Adjusted return on tangible equity 24.6% 23.2% 107 DEFINITIONS Definitions The Group considers that the key figures are relevant to the users of the financial report as a complement to assess the financial performance of the Group. Adjusted operating income Earnings per share Total operating income excluding foreign exchange Net profit attributable to shareholders in relation gains/losses. to the average number of shares. Adjusted cost to income ratio (C/I ratio) 1 Leverage ratio 2 Adjusted operating expenses excluding marketing Tier 1 capital as a percentage of total assets including costs as a percentage of adjusted operating income. off balance sheet items with conversion factors Adjusted cost to income ratio is presented on a according to the standardized approach. 12-month rolling basis. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) 2 Adjusted operating expenses 1 High-quality liquid assets in relation to the estimated Total operating expenses excluding amortization of net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days, as acquired intangible assets and non-recurring items. defined by Swedish regulations (the SFSA’s code FFFS 2012:6). Adjusted operating profit1 Operating profit excluding amortization of acquired Liquidity reserve intangible assets, foreign exchange gains/losses and A separate reserve of high quality liquid assets that non-recurring items. can be used to secure the company’s short-term ability to pay for loss or reduced access to commonly availaAdjusted profit1 ble sources of funding. Profit excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets, foreign exchange gains/losses and non-recurOwn funds ring items as well as the tax effect thereof. The sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. Adjusted return on average net loans 1 Return on equity Adjusted operating profit as a percentage of average Net profit attributable to shareholders in relation loan portfolio. Return on average net loans is preto average shareholders’ equity. sented on a 12-month rolling basis. Risk exposure amount Adjusted return on tangible equity 1 Total assets and off balance sheet items, weighted in Adjusted net profit in relation to average tangible accordance with capital adequacy regulation for credit equity on a 12-month rolling basis. and market risks. The operational risks are measured and added as risk exposure amount. Risk exposure Average loan portfolio amounts are only defined for the consolidated situaThe average of lending to the general public at the tion. beginning of the period and lending to the general public at the end of the period. Tangible equity Shareholders’ equity less intangible assets. Common Equity Tier 1 capital 2 Shareholders’ equity excluding proposed dividend, Tier 1 capital ratio 2 deferred tax assets, intangible assets and certain other Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk exposure amount. regulatory adjustments defined in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR). Tier 1 capital 2 Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus qualifying forms Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 2 of subordinated loans. Common Equity Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk exposure amount. Tier 2 capital 2 Mainly subordinated loans not qualifying as Tier 1 Credit loss level capital contribution. Net credit losses as a percentage of the average lending to the general public. Total capital ratio 2 Total own funds 1  The adjusted numbers are presented in order to show the underlying performance of the business reflecting constant currencies and excluding non-recurring items primarily related to the IPO 2015. A bridge between statutory and adjusted accounts can be found on page 107. 2 These are reported with respect SFSA’s regulations and general recommendations see regarding capital adequacy, pages 83-85. 108 KEY CONCEPTS Key concepts Interest margin hedging Provision for credit losses Nordax lends at variable interest rate. In addition to this, Nordax’s credit loss provisions are divided into early by law and under general terms of contract for lending and later requirements. The earlier requirements cover in Sweden and Norway Nordax is obliged to adjust the the first 1-180 days after missing payment, where loan customer’s interest rate if Nordax’s cost of funding provision is made for the amounts which Nordax changes. This means that when Nordax’s total cost of anticipates will become more than 180 days past due. funding changes, Nordax adjusts the lending interest Later requirements cover amounts more than 180 days rate charged to a loan customer. At present, this past due. The later requirements are measured on the adjustment takes place in steps of 0.5 percentage basis of present value of expected future cash flows points. This principle means that Nordax is able to keep from these receivables. The model is based on a recovthe margin constant even if the cost of funding changes. ery period of 13 years, where the cash flows are disIn Finland and Germany, the possibility of adjusting the counted at the average interest rate on the loans in the interest rate on loans is limited to a change in the segment portfolio concerned at the time when they benchmark rate. became more than 180 days past due. Hedging of capital adequacy ratio Unsecured personal loans versus secured loans Nordax protects its capital adequacy ratio against Nordax loans are not secured in property, which changes in exchange rates. If, for example, the Norwemeans that if a customer fails to pay on his or her loan, gian krone strengthens, all other things being equal this Nordax does not have any pledged property to which leads to an increase in capital requirement for the to lay claim in order to cover any losses. Nordax only Norwegian portfolio. Nordax therefore has an open operates in countries where there is an established position in the respective currency corresponding to collection system, where the state as an independent the capital requirement and consequently obtains an party ensures that loan contracts are fulfilled if the effect on results that neutralises the change in capital borrower is deemed to have the ability to fulfil his or requirement. The result of this hedging is recognised in her undertakings. This procedure is supported by the income statement item Net profit from financial systems for attachment of earnings and attachment transactions. of property. Recognition of marketing expenses Maturity cycle for unsecured personal loans Nordax reaches its customers through its own direct A portfolio of personal loans typically generates limited marketing and through loan intermediaries. Own direct credit losses until the loans are 18-20 months old. At this marketing corresponds to approximately 70% of new time in the credit cycle a relative increase typically takes lending, and the marketing expense for this lending is place which then levels off and remains stable until the recognised directly in the income statement. In the case loan falls due. As a consequence, there is a tendency for of loans mediated through loan intermediaries, the the level of credit losses to be lower during periods when marketing expense is allocated over four years, which Nordax has high growth and therefore a large proportion means that the cost is spread over time and is charged of recently granted loans. against the income statement on a gradual basis. 109 GRI-INDEX GRI-Index About the Sustainability Report: Nordax report 2016 Report Scope and Boundary for the first time its sustainability work in accordance The starting point for the report is mainly the activities with reporting standard Global Reporting Initiative that have a significant and direct impact from a sus(GRI). The Sustainability Report in all essential follow tainability point of view, that is, the Group own busiVersion 4.0, Core-level. The report will published annunesses. The report covers the entire Group in terms of ally. social and economic aspects. For more information about Nordax sustainability efforts, please contact: Andreas Frid, andreas.frid@nordax.se GRI INDICATOR PAGE/COMMENTS General Standard Disclosures Strategy & Analysis G4-1 CEO and Chairman of the board comments CEO comments page 4 och chairman´s comments page 48 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Frontpage G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Nordax in brief, page 3 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Nordax in brief, page 3 G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates or names of counNordax in brief, page 3 tries where either the organisation has significant operations G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Board of Directors' report page 33 and note 1 page 72 G4-8 Markets served Nordax in brief, page 3 G4-9 Scale of the organisation Nordax in brief, page 3, Multi-Year Review page 37, KPI page 39 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract Staff statistics page 113 and gender G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective Sustainability Employee well-being page 25 bargaining agreements G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain Sustainability Business ethics page 26 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the First Sustainability report organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach Not relevant for Nordax is addressed by the organisation G4-15 Subscription to externally developed economic, environmenSustainability, page 21 tal and social charters or principles G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) Member of Global Compact and Swedish Bankers’ Association and national or international advocacy organisations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial GRI index page 110 statement G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries Sustainability, page 21 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report GRI index page 110 content Sustainability, page 21 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within Concerns Nordax Group the organisation G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outNot applicable, does not report anything side the organisation outside of the organisation G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous First Sustainability report reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the First Sustainability report Scope and Aspect Boundaries 110 GRI-INDEX Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Sustainability, page 22 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Sustainability, page 22 whom to engage G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Sustainability, page 22 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Sustainability, page 22 stakeholder engagement Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 1 January – 31 December 2016 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report First Sustainability report G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or andreas.frid@nordax.se its contents G4-32 The “in accordance” option and GRI content index G4 core 4.0 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Reports for the first time but will evaluate the external review assurance for the report in the future Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation Corporate Governance Report page 49 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of Core values page 19 and Business ethics page 26 behavior. Specific Standard Disclosures ENVIRONMENTAL Materials G4-DMA Sustainability Resource efficiency page 27 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Ongoing dialogue with suppliers to provide data for 2017 Energy G4-DMA Sustainability Resource efficiency page 27 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Sustainability Resource efficiency page 27 SOCIAL Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-DMA SustainabilityEmployee well-being, pages 24–25 G4-LA1 Total number of employees and employee turnover by age Staff statistics, page 113 group, gender and region Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Sustainability Employee well-being, pages 24–25 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 4 work-related illnesses and 3 injuries recorded during in 2016 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender Training and Education G4-DMA Sustainability Employee well-being pages 24–25 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Not measured in 2016, start of measurement 2017 and by employee category G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 100% career development reviews 111 GRI-INDEX Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Sustainability Employee well-being, pages 24–25 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Staff statistics, page 113 of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA Sustainability Employee well-being pages 24–25 G4-LA13 Ratio of basis salary and remuneration of women to men by Sustainability Employee well-being page 25 employee category, by significant locations of operation Human Rights Nondiscrimination G4-DMA Sustainability Employee well-being, pages 24–25 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective 0 actions taken Society Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Sustainability Business ethics, page 26 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assesses for risks Evaluation will be carried out in 2017 related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anticorruption policies and Anti-corruption is part of Nordax Ethical standards, which procedures have been communicated to all employees. Compliance maintains ongoing internal training regarding the content of the ethical standards. Compliance G4-DMA Sustainability Business ethics, page 26 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non0 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Sustainability Responsible lending, page 23 G4-PR5 Result of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Sustainability Responsible lending, page 23 Product Portfolio G4-DMA Sustainability Resource efficiency, page 27 G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a Sustainability Resource efficiency ambition for 2017, specific environmental benefit for each business line broken page 27 down by purpose 112 STAFF STATISTICS Staff statistics GROUP 2016 2015 Men Women TOTAL Men Women TOTAL Total number of employees 96 164 260 90 160 250 Full-time Part-time Hour Full-time Part-time Hour Permanent employees 206 0 0 217 0 0 Temporary employees 0 54 0 33 2016 2015 Men Women Total Men Women Total Permanent employees 69 137 206 78 139 217 Managers 15 20 35 16 17 33 Senior Management 4 4 8 2 5 7 Board of Directors 5 3 8 7 2 9 Staff turnover, number Men Women Total Men Women Total <30 years old 6 4 10 1 4 5 30-50 yeard 11 13 24 4 5 9 >50 years 2 0 2 0 2 2 Total 19 17 36 5 11 16 Total staff turnover, % 17.1% 6.8% Accidents and illness Number Number Workrelated accidents 0 0 Workrelated illness 4 0 Total 4 0 Sick-leave Sick-leave, % 4.40% 4.30% Long-term healthy, % 68% 65% Number of permanent employees that had appraisals Men Women Total Men Women Total 69 137 206 78 139 217 GENDER Men Women All employees 96 164 Senior Managment Team 4 4 Board of Directors 5 3 Managers 15 20 AGE DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES AGE DISTRIBUTION MANAGERS 79 18 47 11 30 28 15 3 7 1 2 < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years Men Women Men Women 113 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING, FINANCIAL CALENDAR AND CONTACTS Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting and Nomination Committee the shareholder’s own name so that the shareholder The Annual General Meeting of Nordax Group AB has the right to attend the meeting. For shareholders (publ) will be held at 9:00 am on Thursday, 27 April who are represented by proxy, the authorisation must 2017 in Bryggarsalen, Norrtullsgatan 12N, Stockholm, be sent prior to the meeting to Nordax Group AB, Sweden. Årsstämma 2017, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden. Persons representing a Notification legal entity must present a copy of the certificate of Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual General incorporation or corresponding authorisation docuMeeting must: ments showing the names of authorised signatories. • be listed in the register of shareholders held by Euroclear no later than Friday 21 April 2017, and Nomination committee and agenda at the meeting • notify Nordax of their attendance no later than FriInformation on the Nomination Committee appeared day 21 April 2017 in the Nordax interim report for the period JanuarySeptember 2016. The information was also published Notification may be given in one of the following three on the website www.nordaxgroup.com. ways: • on the Nordax website www.nordaxgroup.com Information how shareholders can have an item dis• by post to: Nordax Group AB, Årsstämma 2017, cussed at the Annual General Meeting was provided in c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, Box 191, SE-101 23 the year-end report for 2016. The information was also Stockholm, Sweden published on the website www.nordaxgroup.com. • by telephone on +46 8 402 92 09. Dividend When notifying the company of your intention to The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer attend, you will need to state your name, address and propose that a dividend of 1.60 SEK per share be paid personal identity number. for 2016, corresponding to SEK 177.1 million. The proposed record date is Tuesday, 2 May, 2017. Euroclear Nominee-registered shares Sweden AB anticipates that the dividend will be paid Shareholders with nominee-registered their shares out to shareholders on Friday 5 May 2017, subject to must ensure in good time before Friday 21 April 2017 the decision of the Annual General Meeting. that the nominee temporarily registers the shares in Financial calendar Photographer (Board of Directors and Management Team): Fredrik Persson, Other photos: iStock, Production: Originalarna Sverige AB 2017 April 26, 7:30 am Interim report January-March April 27, 9:00 am Annual General Meeting, Bryggarsalen, Norrtullsgatan 12N, Stockholm, Sweden July 14, 7:30 am Interim report January-June October 25, 7:30 am Interim report January-September 2018 February Year-end report Contacts Head of Investor Relations: Andreas Frid, andreas.frid@nordax.se Telephone +46 8 690 14 25 About Nordax Group: www.nordaxgroup.com Customer information: Sweden www.nordax.se Norway www.nordax.no Finland www.nordax.fi Germany www.nordax.de Address: Box 23124, SE-104 35 Stockholm, Sweden Visitors: Gävlegatan 22, SE-113 30 Stockholm, Sweden Corporate Identity Number: 556993-2485 114 -
