SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS This, our fourth sustainability report, covers information and performance data on the operations of the Swarovski 4 Crystal Business during the preceding two calendar years (2015–16) . Swarovski Crystal Business includes those parts of the Swarovski Group that design, manufacture and sell high-quality crystals, genuine gemstones and created stones 6 as well as finished products such as jewelry, accessories and WELCOME lighting. From here on, where Swarovski is mentioned, it refers only to the Swarovski Crystal Business. In this report, we provide detail about the evolving nature 8 SUSTAINABILITY of our strategic approach to sustainability, which represents IN BRIEF the beginning of a new phase in Swarovski’s sustainability journey. Since we are now embarking on this new phase, we have focused our progress updates on the headline activities OUR BUSINESS and achievements in 2015–16. We have increased the scope of reported quantitative data in 2015–16, expanding the number of major sites we report on from nine to ten. This includes all of our own manufacturing and production locations: Wattens in Austria; 10 14 SUSTAINABILITY Subotica in Serbia; Triesen in Liechtenstein; three sites in STRATEGY Bangkok in Thailand; Plattsburgh in the USA; Pune in India; Bien Hoa in Vietnam and our corporate offices in Männedorf in Switzerland. 20 MANAGEMENT We have also produced a detailed index, guided by the APPROACH Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines, as a supplement to this report. The index is available to download at www.swarovskigroup.com/sustainabilityreport2017 HEADLINE ACHIEVEMENTS We welcome stakeholder feedback on any aspect of our report. Please contact us at sustainability@swarovski.com. 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 3 “ TODAY’S GLOBAL CHALLENGES NEED NEW, CONTEMPORARY SOLUTIONS. WELCOME TO In this report, we summarize these and other Dear Readers, highlights of our activities and achievements during THE SWAROVSKI 2015–16. We also take this opportunity to restate our commitment to the United Nations Global SUSTAINABILIT Y In this sustainability report we look to the next phase Compact, the Women’s Empowerment Principles REPORT 2017 of our sustainability journey, by outlining our revised strategy. Daniel Swarovski’s founding vision, and his To this end, we have updated our sustainability strategy and refreshed our priorities around where and the recently signed World Economic Forum’s Compact for Responsive and Responsible Leadership. commitment to responsible ways of working, continue we believe we can have the greatest impact across As a company that thinks in generations, not quarters, to guide our purpose, decisions and actions. With our value chain by employing the unique strengths of we maintain a long-term outlook towards driving this renewed approach, we honor his legacy while our business and brand. We also continually strive to positive change, viewing it as an integral part of also recognizing that today’s global challenges need work collaboratively with others across the fashion, securing the future success of our business. new, contemporary solutions. jewelry and design industries to improve commitments across our sector. Climate change, water crises, gender inequality, economic disparity, forced labor, and the overThe past two years have seen steady developments Sincerely, consumption of natural resources require the private in our ongoing sustainability journey. Many THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF THE sector to step up. We accept we have a role to play certifications secured in 2015–16 provide external SWAROVSKI CRYSTAL BUSINESS in tackling many of these challenges and supporting validation of our efforts to continually manage the delivery of the United Nations’ Sustainable social and environmental impacts of our operations, ABOVE Swarovski Executive Board Development Goals. which form the bedrock of our strategy. OPPOSITE TOP Aurora Borealis crystal OPPOSITE BOTTOM Daniel Swarovski 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 33% of our The Swarovski Integrity Charter, SUSTAINABILIT Y IN energy comes from endorsed by the Executive Board in 2016, formally renewable sources BRIEF 2015–2016 * at our manufacturing and defines and reconfirms our values, principles and commitment to acting responsibly production locations 26% reduction in Scope 1 emissions Under our CLEAR program, Conscious design projects total energy consumption decreased by 59% SCOPE 1 our finished products and those – initiatives promoting since 2010 across our at our main crystal components across our entire supply sustainability – were manufacturing and production locations manufacturing site in Wattens since 2010 59% chain meet the strictest regulations on hazardous substances piloted at three top international design schools: ♦ ♦ Central Saint Martins in London ♦ ♦ Condé Nast Center of Fashion and Design in Shanghai Swarovski Waterschool has expanded ♦ ♦ École supérieure 100% of Swarovski crystals Pb to two new locations (with pilots at the de mode ESG are produced using our UQAM in Ping River, Thailand and Mississippi pioneering Advanced Montreal River, USA) taking the total to seven Lead locations globally Crystal lead-free formula† 70% of our total Certifications water demand is ♦ ♦ ISO 50001: Wattens, ♦ ♦ OHSAS 18001: Swarovski Over 80,000 crystals have been upcycled through conscious design initiatives 70% met with recycled water across our Austria ♦ ♦ ISO 14001: Swarovski Gemstones, Thailand ♦ ♦ SMETA: Subotica, Serbia manufacturing and Gemstones, Thailand ♦ ♦ Responsible Jewellery production locations ♦ ♦ SA8000 : Pune, India Council: Atelier Swarovski 88% Of our new or Atelier Swarovski refurbished monolaunched an exclusive 28 Swarovski Foundation Sustainable paper Swarovski brand stores 88% UN Women charity charitable partnerships: guidelines (e.g. recycled meet our Swarovski content and responsibly Sustainable Sustainable Stores bracelet in support of 4 Conserving Natural Resources sourced) integrated into the Safe Cities Global 11 Fostering Culture and Creativity Stores (Triple S) standard Initiative 13 Promoting Wellbeing new brand standards *Quantitative data refers to 2016 †Containing 0.009% lead or less 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 LIECHTENSTEIN EUROPE ASIA-PACIFIC Triesen NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA THAIL AND AUSTRIA MIDDLE EAST Ayutthaya Bangpoo Wattens USA Bangplee SERBIA Plattsburgh Subotica VIETNAM Bien Hoa INDIA Pune OUR BUSINESS The Swarovski Crystal Business delivers a diverse Founded in 1895 by Daniel Swarovski in OUR PRODUCTION portfolio of unmatched quality, craftsmanship and Wattens, Austria, the company is now run by the LOCATIONS creativity, designing, manufacturing and selling highfifth generation of family members, with 27,000 ♦ ♦ Austria: Wattens ♦ ♦ Thailand: Ayutthaya, Bangpoo quality crystals, genuine gemstones and created dedicated colleagues across the world responsible and Bangplee ♦ ♦ Liechtenstein: Triesen stones, as well as finished products such as jewelry, for adding sparkle to everyday life and maintaining home accessories and design and lighting solutions. the company’s position at the forefront of design, ♦ ♦ Serbia: Subotica ♦ ♦ USA: Plattsburgh The Swarovski Crystal Business and its sister creativity and innovation. Swarovski’s products are ♦ ♦ India: Pune ♦ ♦ Vietnam: Bien Hoa companies Swarovski Optik (optical devices) and sold in approximately 2,800 stores in 170 countries Tyrolit (abrasives) form the Swarovski Group. globally, with production sites in Austria, India, Liechtenstein, Thailand, Vietnam, Serbia, and the USA. VALUE CHAIN We seek to understand and respond to sustainability issues across our value chain, from sourcing materials SWAROVSKI BEIRAT / BOARD OF DIRECTORS to designing pieces to engaging customers. The table below shows a simplified representation of our value chain, with a summary of some of the most significant sustainability issues that we continuously strive to understand better and address at each stage. T YROLIT SWAROVSKI CRYSTAL BUSINESS SWAROVSKI OPTIK EXECUTIVE BOARD PRODUCT DESIGN SOURCING PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION CUSTOMERS AND ROBERT BUCHBAUER MARKUS MATHIAS AND DEVELOPMENT AND LOGISTICS COLL ABOR ATION DANIEL COHEN NADJA SWAROVSKI CHAIRMAN LANGES-SWAROVSKI MARGREITER ♦ ♦ Product safety ♦ ♦ Supply chain ♦ ♦ Labor practices ♦ ♦ Environmental ♦ ♦ Disposal and/ ♦ ♦ Product assessment and ♦ ♦ Environmental management or end of life CONSUMER GOODS SWAROVSKI FINANCE & BUSINESS GEMSTONES BUSINESS PROFESSIONAL ADMINISTRATION CORPORATE responsibility management management – energy, ♦ ♦ Inspiring and LIGHTING BUSINESS BRANDING & SWAROVSKI TOURISM COMMUNICATION ♦ ♦ Human rights – energy, emissions, water promoting SWAREFLEX DIRECT SELLING SERVICES ATELIER SWAROVSKI and working emissions, water and waste sustainability CHAMILIA conditions and waste SUSTAINABILIT Y SWAROVSKI ♦ ♦ Ethics and FOUNDATION anti-corruption ABOVE Entrance to the Swarovski exhibition at Baselworld This diagram shows the structure of the Swarovski Group. 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 OUR VISION Swarovski drives positive change, so when you buy Swarovski you are contributing to a better world OUR GOALS To protect the people and the To inspire and enable our To work towards sustainable natural environment touched by designers, collaborators production and consumption our supply chain and customers to be more sustainable OUR THEMES “ WE HAVE CONSCIOUSLY OUR SUSTAINABILIT Y INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY STR ATEGY INTO THE OPERATIONS OF WATER STEWARDSHIP WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT FAIR PARTNERSHIPS CONSCIOUS DESIGN SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION SWAROVSKI. For more than 120 years, we have strived to stay true We are now embarking on the next phase of our to Daniel Swarovski’s founding principles of doing sustainability journey. Through discussions with business in a way that respects the social and natural our stakeholders, and further analysis, we have capital on which we all depend. developed our thinking around our most pertinent impacts, dependencies and opportunities. Since 2010 we have taken a more formal approach, which led to the publication of our first sustainability The main tenets of our strategy are summarized in report. We have consciously integrated sustainability our vision and goals, and through five priority themes into the operations of the Swarovski business, while that define the areas of particular focus where we OPER ATIONAL SUSTAINABILIT Y building on our key strengths and achievements, such believe that Swarovski can have the greatest positive as our lead-free* Advanced Crystal formula. impact across our value chain. This framework runs Ongoing improvement of social and environmental governance alongside the continual work required to manage and systems across the business units, production sites and external supply chain Now, we recognize that Daniel Swarovski’s legacy the broad range of sustainability risks, issues and can live on through Swarovski playing a deeper role opportunities across our business. in society and tackling some of the global challenges faced by the world today. ABOVE Crystal production, Wattens, Austria *Containing 0.009% lead or less 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 STRATEGY “ WE AIM TO BECOME KNOWN FOR ENDORSING SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS. WATER STEWARDSHIP Water has always FAIR PARTNERSHIPS We aim for colleagues UNITED NATIONS’ SUSTAINABLE been central to the Swarovski story, with our 120in our production sites and across our supply chain to DEVELOPMENT GOALS year history of crystal production partly generated enjoy good conditions, benefits and opportunities in by small-scale hydro-power from the beginning. We their working life and we endeavor to have a positive We seek to align ourselves with the United Nations’ now see the most significant risks and opportunities impact on the wider local communities. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our around our production sites and in some key regions priority themes. The themes map across to the SDGs in our supply chain where there is water pollution, CONSCIOUS DESIGN The breadth and highlighted below and we have begun to consult with water scarcity, and flooding. The aim now is to depth of our industry design collaborations is one of colleagues and NGOs to explore local development better understand the fresh water challenges and the key reasons for our success as a global brand. challenges and opportunities in our production the potential context-based and collaborative We aim to become known for endorsing sustainable locations. interventions we can make. materials and products, and inspiring conscious collections by harnessing our networks and WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT As a brand championing conscious design. for which women are a significant part of our consumer base and workforce, we strive to champion SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION Swarovski women’s empowerment. Our aim is to empower has always been at the forefront of innovation, and women across our value chain from those who craft we want to channel this pioneering spirit in pursuit our products to those who wear them. of sustainable innovation. We will pursue innovative uses and applications for our crystals, seek to influence the materials used with our products, research innovative services that contribute to the ABOVE LEFT Jewelry production circular economy and link up with smart devices. lines in our facility in Thailand ABOVE RIGHT Employees in our Swarovski Gemstones production facility in Thailand 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 13 “ WE ARE MAKING PROGRESS WITH TAILORING SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS ACROSS OUR BUSINESS. MANAGING OPER ATIONS We maintain a program around the ongoing improvement of social and environmental governance, systems, standards and certifications across our business units, our production sites and our external supply chain. “ SUSTAINABILITY IS GOVERNANCE In addition to the overarching MANAGEMENT ENDORSED AND GUIDED governance of the Executive Board and APPROACH AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL. the management of sustainability by a global internal team, we are also making progress with tailoring sustainability At Swarovski, sustainability is endorsed and guided As discussed earlier in this report, our strategy is now governance to specific requirements at the highest level. As with other major corporate defined by five themes that represent the areas in across the business. Business units decisions, strategic sustainability decisions are made which we believe Swarovski can have the greatest (BU) such as the Swarovski Gemstones collectively by the Executive Board to maintain positive impact. These will become an integral part of Business and Swarovski Professional alignment with the commercial strategy whilst our ongoing stakeholder engagements. have identified and appointed relevant engaging senior management on the direction and BU stakeholders to implement formal Our work within these themes sits on a bedrock of progress of the sustainability agenda. Executive structures to manage sustainability issues continual activities to manage our fundamental social Board member Nadja Swarovski represents within their operations. This approach and environmental impacts at an operational level. sustainability at the executive level, and, reporting enables them to better address their Progress across these areas is summarized in more to her, the Global Vice President of Corporate unique business requirements and detail in a separate index, guided by the Global Sustainability and Social Responsibility manages the stakeholder expectations. The process Reporting Initiative. development and implementation of our sustainability of strengthening governance by making program across the company’s business units and Periodic materiality assessments are also carried out it more attuned to BU needs and cross-functional departments. through internal and external consultations and by stakeholder expectations is ongoing gathering industry intelligence. while we seek strong alignment across ABOVE Tyrol, Austria the Swarovski Crystal Business. OPPOSITE Swarovski plant, Wattens, Austria 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 MANAGEMENT “ WE TAKE A RIGOROUS APPROACH TO MANAGING AND RESPONSIBLE SOURCING INITIATIVE Our supply chain comprises a significant proportion “ OUR RESPONSIBLE REDUCING of our own factories, together with external suppliers. SOURCING INITIATIVE Our Responsible Sourcing Initiative was established WASTE in 2014 to help us and our suppliers address IS A KEY PART OF OUR MATERIALS. environmental and social risks throughout our supply RESPONSIBLE APPROACH chain. It is a key part of our responsible approach to TO SUPPLY-CHAIN ISSUES. supply chain issues and is founded on a systematic, risk-based approach to monitoring suppliers’ adherence to our Supplier Code of Conduct. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT energy than at any of our other facilities. Here, As a result, 93% of our Category A and B suppliers, we achieved the ISO 50001 energy management As a responsible business with global manufacturing who supply our finished goods, components and certification in 2016. facilities, sustainable resource management is integral raw materials and represent 95% of our annual to Swarovski maintaining its long-term ability to We take a proactive approach to managing water procurement spend, have signed our Supplier Code operate successfully. in our manufacturing operations throughout the of Conduct. Within our Consumer Goods Business, cutting, grinding and polishing stages of creating the largest business unit within the Swarovski We continually seek new opportunities to reduce our crystals. Our Central Water Circulation Systems, a Crystal Business, 97% of the Category A and B energy consumption and lower emissions by adopting closed-loop water recycling process for grinding suppliers who supply finished jewelry, homeware, innovative energy efficiency measures and identifying and polishing have been in operation since 1990 watches and packaging are routinely audited as opportunities to use renewable energy. In response and reduce the need to draw water from the public part of the Responsible Sourcing Initiative. to these ongoing challenges, our colleagues across water supply. We also take a rigorous approach production and process engineering collaborate We make targeted use of third-party assessments to managing and reducing waste materials. Our regularly to develop new solutions and improve (e.g. SMETA, Responsible Jewellery Council and consistent focus on waste reduction has helped us our performance. An important focal point for these SA8000) and our own internal labor assessment to achieve important breakthroughs, such as being efforts is our main crystal manufacturing site in (based on SMETA and SA8000) to monitor able to recycle 90% of the rare earths used in the Wattens, Austria, where we use significantly more supplier performance. In recognition of the often polishing process. complex issues in factories, we take a consultative ABOVE Water treatment facility at Swarovski plant in Wattens, Austria approach to helping factory owners with OPPOSITE TOP Wax mould-making in our production facility, Thailand remediation activities. OPPOSITE BOTTOM Raw materials 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 17 MANAGEMENT COMMUNIT Y INVESTMENT Established in 2000, our flagship community investment program, Swarovski Waterschool, continues to deliver an inspiring educational program that enables young people to understand and practice sustainable water use. These schools are located near seven key water courses around the globe and work with local NGO partners to engage students and their communities to ensure the long-term availability of clean water for all. “ WE WORK WITH LOCAL NGO PARTNERS TO ENSURE THE LONG PRODUCT SAFET Y TERM AVAILABILITY OF With a long-standing commitment to creating safe, CLEAN WATER FOR ALL. responsible products, Swarovski continuously strives to innovate to be ahead of current legislation in the area of product safety. Our focus on product safety will continue to bring competitive advantages as consumer interest in transparency grows. SWAROVSKI FOUNDATION Our rigorous approach to optimizing the chemical The Swarovski Foundation was content of our products through our Restricted Substance established in 2013 to build Policy Program (CLEAR) forms part of our broader on Swarovski’s rich heritage Product Compliance Program, established by the of philanthropy, upheld by five Executive Board in 2009. generations of the Swarovski family. Its three focus areas are: fostering culture “ OUR FOCUS ON PRODUCT and creativity, promoting wellbeing and conserving natural resources. The EMPLOYEES Swarovski Foundation is governed by SAFETY WILL CONTINUE TO Our people play a vital role in the ongoing an external Board of Trustees, chaired BRING COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES success of our company and we recognize that by Nadja Swarovski. AS CONSUMER INTEREST IN diversity brings real commercial value to our business. We seek to build a diverse workforce TRANSPARENCY GROWS. and leverage an inclusive work environment by building leadership capability and organizational capacity. In order to realize our CLEAR acts as a mandatory standard for all our product vision to be a truly attractive employer, we strive OPPOSITE TOP Packing finished development activities relating to hazardous substances. pieces of jewelry in Thailand to empower our people with equal learning We have also implemented an online information portal OPPOSITE BOTTOM Employee and development opportunities, ensure they are in Wattens, Austria for suppliers that provides advice on how to reduce the happy at work and have the tools and resources ABOVE Ugandan girl using a cost and complexity of compliance topics. Tippy Tap to wash hands they need to give their best. LEFT Students of Room to Read’s Girl’s Education Program in India 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 19 CASE STUDY: RESPONSIBLE Atelier Swarovski by Christopher JEWELLERY COUNCIL Kane, ‘Bolster’ collection The Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) is an international not-for-profit standards and certification organization established to reinforce consumer confidence in the jewelry industry. Its 900+ members span the jewelry supply chain from mine to store and commit to being independently audited against the RJC Code of Practices, defining responsible business practices. In November 2016, Atelier Swarovski achieved Nadja Swarovski, member of certification following the successful verification the Swarovski Executive Board of the brand’s sustainability standards by an commented: “We are proud international third-party auditing company that Atelier Swarovski has accredited by the RJC. Certification confirms that become a certified member Atelier Swarovski is compliant with the industry of the Responsible Jewellery standards of sustainability, including the areas Council. This certification is of business ethics, human rights, and social and a testament to the work that environmental management. Atelier Swarovski Swarovski undertakes to ensure follows the Swarovski Gemstones Business and our business has a responsible Chamilia, which both achieved RJC certification relationship with people and the in 2015. Swarovski Professional is currently in planet and a positive impact in 2015–2016 HEADLINE the process of preparing for RJC certification after becoming a member in 2016. the future.” ACHIEVEMENTS AND ACTIVITIES COLORED GEMSTONES RESPONSIBLE MINING THIRD PART Y AUDITS AND SA8000 STANDARD CERTIFICATIONS ♦ ♦ Pune, India: certified 2016 As part of multi-stakeholder collaboration, In 2015 and 2016, we continued to strengthen our SMETA the Swarovski Gemstones Business has social and environmental management systems. ♦ ♦ Subotica, Serbia: audits passed 2015 and been actively engaged in efforts to Our progress has been formally recognized against 2016 establish the first colored gemstones the following standards: responsible mining standard in the OHSAS 18001 industry. We are pleased to see that, Responsible Jewellery Council ♦ ♦ Swarovski Gemstones Thailand: certified in 2016, the RJC announced that it will ♦ ♦ Atelier Swarovski: certification 2016 2016 expand its certification scope to include ♦ ♦ Swarovski Professional: certification 2017 colored gemstones. ISO 14001 ♦ ♦ Swarovski Gemstones Business: certification 2015 ♦ ♦ Swarovski Gemstones Thailand: certified ♦ ♦ Chamilia: certification 2015 2016 ISO 50001 ♦ ♦ Wattens, Austria: certified 2016 OPPOSITE Austrian employee inspecting crystals LEFT Swarovski Gemstones Spring/Summer 2017 marketing campaign 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 21 ACHIEVEMENTS & ACTIVITIES ENVIRONMEANTAL PERFORMANCE These data refer to the ten major locations listed in ‘About this Report’ (page 1) . Energy Consumption ♦ ♦ 26% decline since 2010 due, in part, to a focus on energy efficiency Carbon Emissions ♦ ♦ 59% decline since 2010 in Scope 1 emissions Renewable Energy ♦ ♦ 33% of the energy we consume is derived from renewable sources Recycled Water ♦ ♦ 70% of the water used in our operations is recycled CASE STUDY: INNOVATION IN Another improvement we have made is in the CRYSTAL MANUFACTURING washing of crystals during the manufacturing process. Our engineers have improved OPER ATIONS efficiencies by recovering as much energy as Technical innovation in production has been possible using heat exchanges that transfer heat part of Swarovski’s DNA since it was founded from waste water to fresh rinsing water. Now, more than 120 years ago, and this pioneering 90% of the energy used for hot water is from GREEN LOGISTICS PILOT spirit continues to set us apart from our the direct recovery of heat using heat exchange competitors. At the forefront of our technological technology. The process also results in 75% less In exploring options for reducing our logistics-related progress is our crystal manufacturing facilities water and 30% less energy being used due to carbon footprint, we piloted the transportation in Wattens, Austria, where over the past two the new heat pump system. of Swarovski pens by sea. This resulted in a 99% years, our technical and production teams reduction in carbon emissions compared with air As we discussed in our last report, since 2011 have implemented further upgrades to improve freight, and the adoption of sea freight as standard we have adopted the use of oxygen-burner efficiencies, minimize our impacts and ensure we for the products in scope. technology in our glass-melting furnaces, remain the world leader in crystal manufacturing. which has reduced our consumption of natural One example of an upgrade at our manufacturing gas. This technology was first installed in our Waste Recycling, Reuse or Composting PAPER AND PACK AGING facilities is that we have adopted best practice continuous-melting furnaces, and achieved ♦ ♦ 37% of the waste generated in our production We integrated sustainability guidelines (e.g. Forestry ultra violet degradation technology to treat 6,230MWh of energy savings in 2016; and processes is recycled, reused or composted Stewardship Council certified and recycled content) organic solvent – a byproduct of our crystal after extending this to our six pot furnaces (used ♦ ♦ All the rare earth minerals used in the crystal into our revised brand standards, which set out coating method. This new process eliminates the for colored glass production), we achieved polishing process are recycled with a yield of 80% minimum requirements and outline best practice in the use of up to 40,000m 3 of water per year, which another 5,140MWh of energy savings in the to 95% use of printed materials for communications. was used in the previous treatment washing same year. Overall, ongoing efforts to reduce system. In addition, unlike standard incineration our energy consumption and emissions at our technology, ultra violet degradation does not crystal manufacturing facilities in Wattens have require the use of natural gas to burn the waste continued with significant success, cumulatively ABOVE RIGHT Crystal warehouse, Wattens, Austria ABOVE LEFT Crystal manufacturing efficiency monitoring, Wattens, Austria gas, avoiding the potential emission of 370 saving over 41,000MWh of energy in 2016. OPPOSITE Crystal inspection, Wattens, Austria tonnes of carbon per year. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 23 ACHIEVEMENTS & ACTIVITIES SWAROVSKI WATERSCHOOL Swarovski Waterschool celebrated its 15th anniversary in 2015. Since our last report, the program has expanded to two new locations (Ping River, Thailand and Mississippi River, USA) taking the total to seven locations globally. COP21 In December 2015, Swarovski supported an ’Earth to Paris’ event to celebrate the signing of the Paris agreement on climate change by partnering with James Balog to present his acclaimed documentary Chasing Ice. COP22 In November 2016, Swarovski joined a call to action on the Paris agreement through a digital partnership with ‘Earth to Marrakech’ at the United Nations’ Climate Change Conference. “ WE ARE EXTREMELY PROUD CASE STUDY: SWAROVSKI SUSTAINABLE STORES Triple S has seen consistent performance improvements. In 2014 (its first year of implementation) we set a target of 25% of our TO SUPPORT UN WOMEN Triple S stands for the Swarovski Sustainable Stores MOB SR stores in each region to comply with AND ARE COMMITTED TO framework, which guides our efforts to create Triple S standards, which was easily exceeded, and maintain stores with a low environmental with 42% of MOB SR store openings and EX TREME ICE SURVEY HELP CREATE A WORLD impact. The Triple S Manual is integral to our store refurbishments meeting the standards. The most Since 2015, Swarovski employees have participated IN WHICH WOMEN FEEL development approach and has been integrated recent data show that our stretch target of 80% in in a joint project with James Balog, acclaimed nature into our General Contractor Guidelines. It focuses photographer, to document the diminishment of Austria’s EMPOWERED. primarily on mono-brand Swarovski Retail stores 2016 was achieved with over 88% of stores being compliant. As part of the program, we seek LEED Stubaier glacier, as part of his Extreme Ice Survey, (MOB SR) and covers major refurbishments, certification for one key store each year and are which monitors the effect of climate change on glaciers. relocations and new Crystal Forest store design pleased that our new Beijing Indigo store achieved UN WOMEN SAFE CITIES CAMPAIGN projects worldwide. We refer to the Leadership in LEED Platinum certification in January 2017. SWAROVSKI FOUNDATION Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) guidelines In 2015, Atelier Swarovski launched an exclusive for commercial interiors as our baseline, and we The Swarovski Foundation, an independent charity bracelet in support of the UN Women Safe Cities Global integrate new green building techniques, while established to honor Daniel Swarovski’s philanthropic Initiative, donating 30% of the RRP from each sale. addressing important topics such as recycling spirit, is a major supporter of the Design Museum in Nadja Swarovski, Member of the Swarovski Executive materials, energy consumption, water use and London, which officially reopened at its new location Board, commented: “In support of their tireless campaign waste reduction. in 2016, featuring the new Swarovski Foundation to improve women’s safety we have created a selection Centre for Learning, expected to welcome up to of bracelets to raise awareness of this important fight.” Initiatives include installing more efficient LED 60,000 learners annually. architectural lighting and heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems, sustainable sourcing for ‘greener’ construction sites, the reduction of water ABOVE Swarovski employees monitoring Austrian consumption, improved storage and collection of glaciers for the Extreme Ice Survey OPPOSITE TOP Swarovski Waterschool, Uganda recyclables and the use of low-emitting OPPOSITE BOTTOM Indigo store, Beijing, China construction materials. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 25 ACHIEVEMENTS & ACTIVITIES DIVERSIT Y These data refer to 2016 and include the ten major locations listed in ‘About this Report’ (page 1) . Male Female Employee 27% 73% Management 60% 40% Senior Management 73% 27% WIN CONFERENCE In 2016, Swarovski sponsored the Women’s International Networking Conference, which works to increase the critical mass of women in decisionCASE STUDY: CONSCIOUS DESIGN with a social purpose to transform over 80,000 making roles. Through plenary sessions and stunning Swarovski crystals and gemstones into workshops, the conference looks at options for the At Swarovski, we are aware the increasing beautiful, new creations. social and environmental challenges the design ‘World, Work and You.’ community faces, and we also recognize the One example of this is our partnership with Cirque role Swarovski can play in finding collaborative du Soleil on a sustainable design project with SWAROVSKI INTEGRIT Y CHARTER TRUST WOMEN solutions in partnership with our professional Fashion Business students at École supérieure customers and industry collaborators. To this end, de mode ESG UQAM, part of the Université du For the third consecutive year, Swarovski sponsored Endorsed by the Executive Board in 2016, the Swarovski strives to pilot and develop creative Québec in Montreal. This project challenged the the Trust Women Conference that unites NGOs, Charter defines how Swarovski can act responsibly to solutions that promote the responsible use of corporations and pioneers in the field of women’s meet global business opportunities and challenges. It materials and resources, and have a positive rights to take action and forge tangible commitments reconfirms our values, principles and commitment to impact on the lives of the people who make, use to empower women and fight modern slavery. being a responsible business. and wear our products. We believe in the power of designers – in LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT particular those in the jewelry and fashion Swarovski won three awards for its Leadership industries – to make a positive impact through Academy and Mentoring Programs at the ‘Training their creative choices. As part of our longJournal Awards 2016.’ At the time, over 350 leaders standing commitment to supporting young talent, had taken part in the Leadership Academy since its we seek to engage in conversations with design relaunch less than two years earlier and nearly 200 institutions and have started to pilot a new format people had taken part in mentoring conversations. in our product presentations to design schools that incorporates sustainability as a core element of our brand values. students to take Swarovski crystal-embellished Through our upcycling initiative, we are piloting costumes that have previously appeared in Cirque ideas for how to upcycle end-of-life Swarovski du Soleil’s world-famous shows and integrate ABOVE LEFT Production staff on a break, Thailand crystals and gemstones and thinking about how their end-of-life materials into new products. ABOVE RIGHT Trust Women Conference run by we can contribute to a new circular economy. Through this initiative, both Swarovski and Cirque the Thomas Reuters Foundation Such programs, which are a challenge but also du Soleil were keen to connect with young talent OPPOSITE TOP Central Saint Martins’ jewelry project finalist, Talisa Bergsen an opportunity for creative individuals, we have and engage their skills in a way that promoted OPPOSITE BOTTOM Crystal inspection worked with design institutions and organizations sustainable design. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 27 Report written and designed by Swarovski SWAROVSKIGROUP.COM
