ELI LILLY & COMPANY 2016 UNGC Communication on Progress Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Contents About Lilly, About Elanco p 3 Health, Safety, and Environment p 20 UNGC PRINCIPLES About This Report p 4 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Message from the CEO p 5 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Human Rights p 6 friendly technologies. UNGC PRINCIPLES 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Anti-Corruption p 38 internationally proclaimed human rights; and UNGC PRINCIPLES 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Labor p 15 UNGC PRINCIPLES 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 2 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption ABOUT ELI LILLY AND COMPANY Lilly is a global healthcare leader that unites 2016 CONTRIBUTIONS AT A GLANCE caring with discovery to make life better for 2003-2016 Investment in Lilly people around the world. We were founded $34 M 1 Total Cash Donations $200 M MDR-TB Partnership and Lilly NCD Partnership more than a century ago by a man committed $685 M Total Product Donations 50+ Countries Hosting Volunteer Sites for Global Day of Service to creating high-quality medicines that meet real needs, and today we remain true to that $14.8 M Total United Way Contributions 100,000 Number of Volunteer Employee Hours in Global Day of Service mission in all our work. Across the globe, Lilly 1.2 M+ Number of Insulin Vials Donated as of 2016 to the International Diabetes Federation's Life for a Child Program employees work to discover and bring life1 Including $27.7 M from the Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. changing medicines to those who need them, ABOUT ELANCO improve the understanding and management of Elanco provides comprehensive products and knowledge services to disease, and give back to communities through improve animal health and food-animal production in more than 70 countries around the world. We value innovation, both in scientific philanthropy and volunteerism. To learn more research and daily operations, and strive to cultivate a collaborative work environment for more than 6,500 employees worldwide. We are about Lilly, visit us at lilly.com and newsroom. committed to raising awareness about global food security and celebrating the human-animal bond. Founded in 1954, Elanco is a division of Eli Lilly lilly.com/social-channels. and Company. Visit us at Elanco.com. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 3 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption About This Report not include joint ventures, partially owned subsidiaries, leased facilities, and data in this report have not been externally verified. and Environment management system is certified by an independent, accredited or outsourced operations. auditor in accordance with the American Lilly follows structured processes to Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care This report represents our CommunicaBureau Veritas provided independent, collect, evaluate, and calculate the data Management System requirements. tion on Progress for 2016 in implementing third-party verification of greenhouse we report, to ensure appropriateness the principles of the United Nations Global gas emissions data for Scopes 1, 2, and and accuracy. We consider external We welcome feedback on this content, Compact. 3. Bureau Veritas verified the percentage standards in deciding what data to colas it helps us to prepare future reports. change from both the baseline year (2012 lect and report. For example, following Data and other updates contained in this for energy intensity and waste to landfill; guidance from the World Resources report are focused on the 2016 calendar Robert Smith 2014 for wastewater discharge) and from Institute, we report progress toward year and include global operations, unless Senior Director, Corporate Responsibility 2015 (in all cases) compared to 2016 for environmental goals on an adjusted otherwise noted. We also discuss data E-mail: smith_robert_lee@lilly.com the following metrics: energy efficiency, basis accounting for mergers, acquisiand trends from previous years, where Phone: 317-276-2000 waste to landfill, waste efficiency, recytions, and divestitures as appropriate, relevant, and include some significant cling rate, water intake, and phosphorus to ensure comparability, unless stated events and initiatives that occurred in discharge. Otherwise, the content otherwise. Our global Health, Safety, the first half of 2017. This report does SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Throughout this report, we indicate where our work aligns to the Sustainable Development Goals announced by the United Nations in September 2015. These intersections are noted by icons adjacent to relevant text. 1 NOPOVERTY 2 ZERO HUNGER 3 GWELL-BEING OOD HEALTH AND 4 QUALITY EDUCTION 5 GENDER EQUALITY 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 7 AFFORDABLE CLEAN ENERGY AND 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 9 IINNOVATION NDUSTRY, AND INFRASTRUCTURE 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 11 SCITIES USTAINABLE AND COMMUNITIES 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 13 CLIMATE ACTION 14 LWATER IFE BELOW 15 LONIFELAND 16 PAND EACE, JUSTICE STRONG INSTITUTIONS 17 PFORARTNERSHIPS THE GOALS LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 4 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Message from the CEO In early 2017, Lilly was honored to be named one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” by the Ethisphere With this in mind, in 2016, we conducted two extensive global studies to better understand the experience and Institute, a global leader in defining and advancing progression of women in their careers at Lilly, so that ethical business standards. This recognition encomwe can ultimately improve engagement of women across passes the work of each employee and every aspect of our workforce, including those in senior roles. This year who we are at Lilly, including our strong and indepenwe are doing similar detailed studies of our African dent ethics and compliance program, our heritage, and American, Latino, Asian and mixed race employees in our culture of integrity. It reflects our commitment to the United States. With this knowledge, we plan to diversity and inclusion, and environmental stewardship. enhance our talent management practices in order to It also considers our mission to make medicines that advance the careers of all our employees. help people live longer, healthier, more active lives, as Lilly takes a broad approach to understanding and manwell as our efforts to improve global health, combat aging our environmental impacts across the product life hunger, and contribute positively to the communities cycle, as well. We’re committed to continually reducing where we live and work — a legacy including 925,000 our environmental footprint and to publicly reporting volunteer hours logged since 2008 during our annual our progress toward our goals. For 2016, Lilly received Global Day of Service events. a CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) score of Across the globe, Lilly people are passionate about A-, which is considered leadership level. We’ve also Dear Valued Stakeholder, building on our heritage as we focus on discovering new bolstered our engagement with our suppliers around Eli Lilly and Company is proud to voice our continued therapies for diabetes, cancer, immunology disorders, health, safety, and environmental issues and we continue support of the United Nations Global Compact and its Alzheimer’s disease, and pain. Our global health work our active role with the Innovative Medicines Initiative to 10 principles related to human rights, labor, the reaches people around the world as well, bringing better understand, assess, and reduce the impact of environment, and anti-corruption. Our company’s core diabetes and tuberculosis treatments to people in some active pharmaceutical ingredients in the environment. values —integrity, excellence, and respect for people — of the world’s most impoverished areas. In 2016, we More than 140 years after he founded Eli Lilly and are a natural fit with the aspiration of the Global expanded these efforts to include cancer therapies and Company, our founder’s charge to “make it better and Compact and its member companies: to take shared additional focus countries, and we pledged that by 2030 better” continues to motivate and inspire us every day. responsibility for achieving a better world. we will bring our medicines to 30 million people in There is so much more to do, and at Lilly we are resource-limited communities every year. From the very beginning, our founder’s commitment was determined to deliver on our promise to make life better to combine scientific rigor and a passion for discovery Within Lilly, diversity and inclusion is a business for individuals, communities, and the world around us. with caring for the individuals and communities imperative. Not only do competing perspectives drive the company served­—and to do so with an eye toward innovation and creativity, but the healthcare market is Thank you for your interest, continuous improvement. Today, Lilly’s 40,000+ employees changing rapidly, and first-hand experience with diverse worldwide work to make life better by discovering populations is crucial for serving all people. The Lilly life-changing medicines, promoting better understanding community must mirror our global communities, so that of disease management, and supporting people living we can understand and respond to the unique needs of Dave Ricks with illness — as well as those who care for them. the millions of individuals who depend on our medicines. President and Chief Executive Officer LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 5 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Human Rights 16 PAND EACE, JUSTICE STRONG Bioethics Governance of Protecting Research INSTITUTIONS Lilly supports the UN Global Compact’s principles on respecting internationally proclaimed human rights. As a global pharmaceutical company, our activities Bioethics at Lilly Subjects’ Rights in Lilly has a longstanding commitment to cut across a broad range of societal issues: activities such as ensuring the bioethics—which focuses on the ethics Lilly’s Bioethics Program is an independent organizational unit reporting Clinical Trials of health care, biomedical research, and safety and availability of our medicines, to the chief medical officer and includes As demonstrated by Lilly’s dedication to biomedical public policy—as an integral promoting global health, and enhancing a senior leader and full-time staff with bioethics, Lilly is committed to protectcomponent of corporate integrity in the access to medicines for those who have pharmaceutical industry expertise and ing the rights and well-being of research pharmaceutical industry. In 1999, Lilly trouble affording them. We are commitspecialized training in bioethics. These subjects and patients who use our became one of the first pharmaceutited to respecting privacy and upholding individuals serve as resources for the medicines. Lilly applies a single global cal companies to establish a standing labor standards. That same commitcompany and are responsible for the standard to the conduct of medical trials Bioethics Committee to systematically ment extends to our supply chain, where program’s development, deliverables, involving human subjects. This standard identify, evaluate, and communicate we work with our suppliers to promote and oversight. In addition to this fullis based on well-respected ethics guidbioethics issues, and in 2008 we created strong health, safety, and environmental time effort, employees from across the ance and other requirements including: a Bioethics Program with dedicated full(HSE) practices. company participate in key bioethics • The World Medical Association’s time staff. We embrace a comprehensive In this section, we discuss our work in the approach to bioethics and offer a variety activities beyond their regular work Declaration of Helsinki; following areas related to human rights: of resources and educational offerings to responsibilities, including a Bioethics • The Council for International Organizabioethics; the availability and safety of our help employees navigate ethical scenarCommittee. This committee includes tions of Medical Sciences’ International products; sourcing in our supply chain; ios and empower them to apply bioethics two academic experts in bioethics. Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical Rerespecting patient privacy; the affordabilprinciples in their daily work. search Involving Human Subjects; ity of medications; and our global health • The International Conference on programs. Further information on our Harmonisation’s Guideline for Good support for labor standards can be found Clinical Practice (E6); in the Labor section of this report. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 6 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • The Pharmaceutical Research and 13 essential elements for conducting Manufacturers of America’s Principles ethical human biomedical research and LILLY’S COMPANY MISSION, VISION, AND VALUES on Conduct of Clinical Trials; and sits within the context of Lilly’s mission, • Applicable laws and regulations of the vision, and values. It specifies and Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research country or countries in which a study compiles a sponsor’s bioethical responBasic Bioethics Principles Essential Elements for Ethical Biomedical Research is conducted. sibilities to multiple stakeholders in one resource. The framework informs the Respect for persons Scientific validity Lilly’s commitment to protecting the development of bioethics positions on Beneficence Social value rights of research subjects is articulated topics important to pharmaceutical Non-maleficence Equitable selection of countries/communities in two company guidance documents— and participants research and development, and informs Justice Principles of Medical Research and Relationships with investigators and study sites advice the Bioethics Committee provides Bioethics Framework for Human Reasonable benefit-risk profile on specific ethics scenarios. Biomedical Research—and upheld Independent ethics review through company policies, standards, Incentives for research participants and procedures. Lilly’s Positions on Informed consent Fair treatment of research participants Lilly’s Principles of Current and Emerging Protection of privacy and confidentiality Fair access to post-study benefits Medical Research Bioethics Issues Public transparency The Principles of Medical Research Stakeholder engagement specify Lilly’s standard for conducting, Lilly has developed position statements funding, and communicating results from on bioethics issues such as stem cell its medical research. For more information on how Lilly shares information research, pediatric medicine, and multinational clinical trials, among others. Patient Safety and wherever and whenever patients need them is one of our top priorities. from clinical trials, see the Transparency Product Availability section of this report. Bioethics Consultations Global Patient Safety We work tirelessly to make our medicaLilly’s Bioethics Framework Since 1999, Lilly’s Bioethics Committee tions safe and effective—from the early Beginning with the discovery of a potential new medicine, Lilly’s goal is Lilly’s Bioethics Framework for Human has offered an internal consulting service, stages of design and drug development to ensure that the benefits and risks of Biomedical Research provides a providing a forum for Lilly employees to through ongoing monitoring and underthe medicines we market are continubioethics foundation for the company’s ask questions and seek advice regarding standing of the patient experience once a ously monitored and well understood by biomedical research so that it is bioethics and research ethics issues. medication is on the market. We recogregulators, healthcare providers, and conducted in a manner that aligns with Using the Bioethics Framework and nize that taking the right medication at patients. Lilly’s global Patient Safety broadly accepted ethics principles and bioethics positions, this service increases the right time is a critical piece of a organization, consisting of more than Lilly’s core values. The framework awareness about bioethics, empowers person’s overall health. Therefore, 300 physicians, pharmacists, nurses, consists of four basic principles and employees to raise concerns, and helps ensuring our products are available them reason through challenging issues. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 7 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption and other professionals, is dedicated to the continuous collection, monitorOur Manufacturing Policy Committee oversees the maintenance of Lilly’s Preventing Counterfeit and we are deeply engaged in efforts to combat counterfeiters. We are a founder ing, evaluation, and reporting of safety information. Even after medications are inventory of essential raw materials. As a safeguard, Lilly has additional mitigaMedicines and board member of the Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies, a global coaliapproved for general use, Lilly contintion plans in place for our drug product Counterfeit medicines have been found tion of stakeholders with an interest in ues to collect adverse event reports components, including materials critical in all therapeutic areas in every region protecting patient safety and ensuring from around the world. Lilly enters this to manufacturing finished drug products. of the world. Their impact is wide-reachpatients have access to safe and legitiinformation into a company-specific ing and potentially deadly, both due to mate online pharmacies. adverse event database to further evaltoxic substances sometimes found in Supply Chain Lilly advocates for protections for patients uate the safety of our medications. New the counterfeit medicines and because from the growing number of illegitimate safety findings and emerging concerns they undermine a patient’s confidence in and unsafe online drug sellers. Lilly also are shared openly with regulators and legitimate medicines and the credibility supports the dedicated domain name healthcare providers to appropriately At Lilly, our efforts to ensure the safety of healthcare providers. “dot-pharmacy,” an initiative of the manage risks associated with the use of and integrity of our products begin with Lilly’s anti-counterfeiting strategy is National Association of Boards of our medicines. the procurement of materials and extend composed of three key objectives: Pharmacy that helps patients distinguish throughout the production process. This safe and legal online pharmacies. • Securing the integrity of Lilly mediEnsuring Product includes our interactions to promote strong HSE practices with suppliers cines through the legitimate supply Lilly also cooperates with customs, police, channels; Availability who provide us materials for research and development, as well as with the • Deterring major counterfeiters of Lilly and other law enforcement officials around the world to investigate and contract manufacturers who help make medicines through targeted invesprosecute those who make and distribute The mission of Lilly’s global manufacturour medicines and other pharmaceutical tigations, Internet monitoring, legal counterfeit Lilly medicines without regard ing team is to provide a reliable supply of products. It extends to our work to stem actions; and to the law or patient safety. high-quality medicines. Because Lilly manufactures medicines that people rely the tide of counterfeit medicines and to • Partnering with governments, upon and that can be critical for health, ensure we comply with governmental non-governmental organizations, and we know that we have a responsibility to efforts around conflict minerals. trade associations to raise awareness, Serialization safeguard both the materials needed and to strengthen, enact, and enforce Serialization is the unique identification In addition to the topics we discuss to manufacture these medicines and the anti-counterfeiting laws. of individual packs of medicines to enin this section, more information on supply chain logistics that help to sure the security of the legitimate supply our work around HSE in our supply ensure their availability. Before they chain. One of Lilly’s major legislative enter the Lilly system, our raw material chain can be found in the HSE section Working to Deter Counterfeiters efforts has been to advocate for the and component suppliers are evaluated of this report. Online and In the Field establishment of a uniform federal stanfor technical competence, as well as Patient safety is the driving force behind dard for coding, serializing, and tracking patient, commercial, and HSE impacts. Lilly’s global anti-counterfeiting efforts, pharmaceutical products. Lilly is making LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 8 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption considerable investments in its packaging operations, distribution centers, that they manufacture or have contracted to manufacture contain certain defined Respecting Privacy Pricing and IT infrastructure to support this minerals and whether those materials initiative, which includes new technology may have come from sources in the At Lilly, we are committed to the ethical As overall healthcare costs continue to deployments on more than 30 packaging DRC region. As a part of that reporting management of all personal informarise globally, we recognize that the cost lines around the world. These efforts process, we examine the raw material tion, whether it is that of a customer, an of treatment and medications may be help to ensure that doctors, pharmacontent of all of our global commercial employee, or any other individual. an obstacle for patients trying to get the cists, and patients can be confident in products and seek to identify the origin care they need, especially for the underthe medicines they prescribe, dispense, and source of these raw materials. Our We are open and honest about how we or uninsured. and receive. goal is to develop a better understanding collect, manage, use, and disclose perof the supply chain and to avoid the inadsonal information, and we are intentional In the United States, we are working vertent support of businesses associated about protecting it. We strive to only collaboratively to shape public policy at Conflict Minerals with human rights violations. share it with those who are authorized— the federal and state levels to preserve a and have a legitimate business need—to competitive insurance marketplace, proLilly is concerned with the variety of Lilly’s expectation is that our suppliers see it. Our global privacy office and chief tect patients, optimize clinical outcomes, human rights violations that occur will source their materials responsibly privacy officer oversee a global privacy and encourage innovative treatments. throughout the world. We are aware that and abstain from procuring materiprogram that is designed to protect the Lilly supports exploration of payment the ongoing conflict in the Democratic als from areas or sources that might privacy rights of all individuals whose models that involve broad stakeholder Republic of Congo (DRC) and the promote conflict in the DRC and that personal information is entrusted to engagement, assessment of impact, and surrounding countries is understood to our suppliers conduct their own due us. Key components of that program development of measures that support be financed, in part, by the mining and diligence regarding the source of any include a principles-based policy that improvements in patient outcomes and trade of certain minerals, including materials they provide to us in order to is supported by an infrastructure of improve integration of care. We believe tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold. We are ensure those materials are conflict-free. procedures, job aids, training, and other that value-based payment methods and committed to making every effort to We filed our latest conflict minerals materials governing the collection and programs that reward improvement in ensure we understand our supply chain disclosure documents with the SEC in use of personal information. patient outcomes and healthcare system and the potential upstream impacts of May 2016. processes—rather than the quantity of our supply and purchasing decisions as Our goal is to always deliver on the Lilly is committed to continue to underservices provided—will help promote they relate to the minerals at issue. promises we make to individuals whose stand the origin of these materials and access to high-value care. personal information we collect and From 2014 to 2016, Lilly filed annual will take appropriate action to avoid the use. We are respectful of an individual’s Today’s global prescription drug market reports with the U.S. Securities and inadvertent support of businesses assoprivacy, and we demonstrate, in every represents a highly complex ecosystem Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to ciated with human rights violations. business operation, in every location in which the cost of, and access to, the conflict minerals rule, under which around the world, that people can trust prescription medications depend on a companies describe whether products us with their personal information. number of market factors. Lilly’s LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 9 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption products are currently sold in approxiportfolio, increases in competition together to find solutions to make mediAVERAGE DISCOUNTS TO LIST PRICE mately 125 countries around the world. As among pharmaceutical manufacturcines more affordable for the people who ACROSS THE U.S. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO1 such, we must consider unique condiers, as well as increased negotiation need them. In the case of High-Deduct(% TOTAL AVERAGE DISCOUNT 2) tions on a market-by-market basis to leverage by pharmacy-benefit manible Health Plans, affordability could be ensure patients have affordable access agers (PBMs), have resulted in deeper improved if patients directly received the 50 50% to the innovative medicines we develop. discretionary discounting over the last benefit of the rebates provided by phar40 45% Internationally, Lilly partners with several years. Additionally, mandatory maceutical companies to the insurance 41% governments to offer our products at government discounts have significantly plan. We are also committed to working 30 sustainable prices for local populations increased since passage of the Affordable with insurance companies and PBMs to 30% 28% and to identify solutions to improve Care Act in 2010. develop value-based payment arrange20 access to medicines in developing and ments that tie the price of our medicines 10 The increase in discounts on Lilly sales less-developed countries. These soluto the value and outcomes they provide creates a gap between list prices for tions might include cash and product patients. our medications and the actual prices 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 donations to patient assistance prorealized by Lilly. While list prices for Please note: The amount of rebates, grams, humanitarian causes and other COMPARISON OF LILLY LIST AND NET Lilly products in the United States have discounts, and returns is estimated by charitable endeavors, as well as PRICE CHANGES FOR U.S. PRODUCT grown at double-digit rates, net price the company, and methodologies used public-private partnerships. PORTFOLIO1 increases have consistently been lower. may differ from methodologies used by (% CHANGE VERSUS THE PRIOR YEAR) other companies. These data are not Pricing in the The factors that create the gap between audited and should be read in conjuncYEAR LIST PRICE 3 NET PRICE 4 list and net prices also contribute to the tion with the Revenue Recognition and United States rising prices that consumers pay for medicines at the pharmacy. In the past Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount Accruals section of the company’s 10-K 2012 2013 12.8 15.0 7.8 11.9 Lilly is providing greater transparency decade, insurance plan designs have filings with the Securities and Exchange into the way our products are priced and exposed many people to the list price of 2014 11.8 1.6 Commission. working to expand access to medicines medicines, through growth in High2015 16.3 9.4 in the U.S. healthcare system. Lilly, Deductible Health Plans and a shift from co-pays to co-insurance. Rather than 2016 14.0 2.4 like other pharmaceutical companies, paying a fixed dollar amount for medIncreasing Access provides rebates and discounts to payer customers, and these have increased in icines, consumers in these plans pay to Lilly Insulins 1  U.S. Product Portfolio includes all human pharmaceutical products marketed in the U.S. for which the full list price until they meet their Lilly’s commitment to working for Lilly is the holder of the new drug application recent years. Overall, average discounts (NDA). This represents approximately 95 percent deductible and a percentage of the full greater affordability and access to our of total U.S. human pharmaceutical revenue. to U.S. list prices have grown from medicines can be seen in our efforts to 2 Total Average Discount is calculated by dividing  28 percent to 50 percent in the past list price thereafter. total annual rebates, discounts, and channel costs make sure people with diabetes get the by total annual gross sales. five years. The U.S. healthcare system was designed 3 List Price represents the weighted average year insulin they need. In December 2016, over-year change in the wholesale acquisition cost Several factors are driving this trend. so that risk is shared among all payers Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim launched (WAC). 4 Net Price represents weighted average year Along with changes to the Lilly for healthcare services, including Basaglar (insulin glargine injection), a over-year change in net price, which is WAC minus prescription drugs. We must work rebates, discounts, and channel costs. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 10 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption long-acting insulin. Basaglar is priced at a discount to existing products. To help In 2016, Lilly Cares helped more than 111,000 people in the United States way to assist in making these medicines accessible, Lilly does not seek nor enforce Lilly 30x30 further reduce the cost of Basaglar, we obtain the Lilly medications they needed patents for medicines in any of the “least In 2016, along with the Eli Lilly and are offering a savings card. in the areas of mental health, diabetes, developed countries,” as defined by the Company Foundation, we announced cardiovascular disease, men’s health, United Nations. Lilly 30x30, an initiative to increase Starting January 1, 2017, many people osteoporosis, oncology, psoriasis, and access to quality health care and improve who use Lilly insulin can buy it at a growth hormone disorders. long-term health for people in commuGlobal Health 40 percent discount to list price using mobile and web platforms hosted by nities with limited resources. Through Blink Health. The discounts, provided by Lilly through a partnership with Express Pricing Around investments in people, medicines, and health systems, we, along with our Scripts, may reduce costs for people who pay full retail prices at U.S. pharmacies, the World Lilly’s global health work extends our promise of caring and discovery to more partners, aim to reach 30 million people annually by 2030. This represents a sixsuch as those who have no insurance or Pricing based on the ability to pay within people around the world—especially fold increase in the number of people we are in the deductible phase of their a market is just one way pharmaceuthose living in communities with limited reach in these communities today. high-deductible insurance plans. In tical companies can enhance access resources. We focus on diseases such For the company, this work will go addition, over the past three years, Lilly to medicines for people everywhere. as diabetes, cancer, and tuberculosis beyond our traditional business model, has donated more than $378 million in Lilly advocates for policies that supwhere we have deep expertise, and we and beyond philanthropy alone, to diabetes medicines to charitable port differential pricing (the charging of partner with other leading experts and explore new approaches, such as: organizations for further distribution different prices based on a purchaser’s organizations. Elanco, our animal health division, promotes global health through • Drug discovery for diseases disproporto qualifying individuals. ability to pay). Such policies can help efforts to end hunger and improve food tionately affecting communities with balance the desire to offer lower medisecurity. limited resources; cation prices to low-income populations Patient Assistance Programs while still rewarding innovation. We also support efforts to decrease the final in the United States price of medicines to patients, such as It is important to us to make sure that those who can benefit from these medminimizing taxes of all types and limiting “ Over the last two decades, we have made tremendous progress in expanding markups applied in the supply chain. icines have access to them. One way we access to quality care in poorer communities, but we can and must do more. Lilly We are also particularly conscious of do this in the United States is through the economic circumstances in many 30x30 is a company-wide mandate to achieve a six-fold increase in the number of the Lilly Cares Foundation Patient Asdeveloping countries. In order to address people we reach annually, outside of our traditional business. We will engage the sistance Program, also known as Lilly Cares. The program is operated by The these realities, we’ve developed alternaentire Lilly organization to ensure that our aspirational goals are met. The investtive business models that recognize that Lilly Cares Foundation, Inc., an indements will help millions more benefit from Lilly’s life-saving work and accelerate the poorest nations must pay less than pendent foundation created to assist the wealthiest nations if we are to facilour contributions toward the UN Sustainable Development Goals.” qualifying patients in obtaining certain itate access to medicines. Finally, as a – John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Former Lilly Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Lilly medications at no cost. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 11 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 2015 2030 Outside of our traditional business, we reached We'll continue to expand our efforts so that by 2030, we'll 5 million people in resource-limited settings in 2015. reach 30 million people in need each year. • Product delivery and packaging for (TB) and diabetes care, diagnosis, and done through major global health • The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership, which patients in places with limited infraawareness. That work will carry on programs supported by Lilly, the Lilly included a decade-long transfer structure, refrigeration, or sanitation; through the newly named Lilly Global Foundation, and our partners over of manufacturing technology for • Alternative product pricing and Health Partnership, with a new five-year, the past two decades. The Lilly Global multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) financial assistance to improve $90 million commitment to accelerate Health Partnership encompasses and medicines to other countries, support access to care; these efforts. This funding will expand expands these continuing efforts under of early-stage TB drug discovery, the program’s work to include a cancer a single umbrella. These include: and improved care in high-burden • Initiatives to strengthen communities’ focus and additional countries. regions; and health systems and treatment capacity; and The Lilly Global Health Partnership in• New patient education programs. cludes a $15 million commitment made in “ In far too many places around the world, a lack of timely diagnosis and access to 2016 to the Infectious Disease Research quality care prevents people and communities from flourishing. Lilly’s expansive Lilly Global Health Institute. This new commitment extends an eight-year collaboration to accelerate vision for, and significant commitment to, treating TB in poor communities is helping to change that. By strengthening health systems, Lilly’s work not only led Partnership early-stage drug discovery and preclinical development for potential new to important progress on TB but also laid the groundwork for more integrated care Between 2003 and 2016, Lilly and the TB medicines. to better diagnose and treat chronic conditions like diabetes and cancer. We are Lilly Foundation together contributed The Lilly Global Health Partnership and grateful for the company’s vision and commitment, which have improved access $200 million through two signature Lilly 30x30 extend and accelerate work to care for current and future generations of patients.” programs that targeted tuberculosis – Paul Farmer, M.D., Ph.D., and global health expert LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 12 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • The Lilly NCD Partnership, launched in 2011, to help governments and key LEAP With a rich heritage of developing innovative diabetes medicines and solutions, and townships, but the capacity to provide good diabetes care in these clinics stakeholders improve diabetes prevenDiabetes is a major public health probLilly has aligned with the Chinese govis often lacking. tion and care for people in need. lem that is sweeping the world, with ernment’s efforts to help more people Under LEAP, Lilly aims to ensure that In addition, Lilly works to improve global devastating physical and economic with chronic ailments like diabetes and primary care physicians receive improved health through many other collaboraimpacts on individuals, their families, their communities through an initiative training to increase their confidence tive efforts, including ongoing product communities, and governments. In called Lilly Expanding Access for People and skills to manage diabetes across all donations and funding for Academic China, diabetes is epidemic—accounting (LEAP). stages of the disease. The program aims Model Providing Access to Healthcare for about 30 percent of global cases of While large, urban hospitals in China to improve community-based care by (AMPATH) in Kenya; support of the Interthe disease. This prevalence is expected typically provide high-quality diabetes strengthening linkages between communational Diabetes Federation’s Life for a to rise as more people in China are care, specialists at these facilities are nity and township clinics with diabetes Child program; and hunger relief efforts. diagnosed, and many more Chinese are often overwhelmed with thousands of experts and larger teaching hospitals, likely living with prediabetes, but may patients each day. As a result, people and by empowering people to manage not be aware that they are at risk for with diabetes are encouraged to visit their disease with the support of Lilly developing the disease. smaller clinics located in communities Diabetes Educators. LILLY GLOBAL HEALTH PARTNERSHIP REACH AND IMPACT, 2017-2021 Working with expert partners, the Lilly Global Health Partnership helps people living in limited-resource settings in Brazil, China, India, Kenya, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, and the United States. Brazil China India Kenya Mexico Russia South Africa U.S. Diabetes Cancer Tuberculosis (TB) LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 13 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LILLY’S LEAP: EXPANDING ACCESS WITH A NEW COMMERCIAL MODEL What: An integrated framework of practical healthcare provider training, comprehensive assistance for people with diabetes, and access to effective care, including medicines. How: Address a critical gap—limited high-quality diabetes care in community and township health centers in China. Why: Create shared and lasting value for individuals, their families and communities, as well as for Lilly. LEAP now covers 14 provinces. From We partner with relief organizations to April 2015 through December 2016, determine how Lilly can uniquely meet through LEAP, Lilly has: needs on the ground and best serve • Introduced its insulin products to those who are impacted. approximately 5,000 institutions and In 2016, Lilly gave approximately 150,000 patients; $1.6 million in product donations in • Provided training to 27,000 primary the wake of natural disasters around care physicians; and the world. Our employees also donated • Taught more than 16,000 people with funds for disaster relief efforts diabetes self-management skills. through the Lilly U.S. and Global Giving programs, which was matched by Disaster Relief the Lilly Foundation for a total of more than $120,000. When disasters strike, Lilly responds with cash and product contributions to help people in desperate situations. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 14 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Labor Training and Pay and Benefits At Lilly, our company values—integrity, employee benefits. These may include excellence, and respect for people— flexible work arrangements; on-site shape our approach to labor issues. With these as our guide, we are commitDevelopment At Lilly, we support a culture of well-being conveniences, such as cafes, fitness centers, and child care; competitive ted to fairness and nondiscrimination in time-off programs; retirement benefits; by providing competitive pay, comprehenour employment practices, and we value and health and disability programs that To further support our employees, we sive employee benefit programs, training diverse backgrounds, skills, and global are available for employees when they strive for a culture of lifelong learning, and development resources, and opportuperspectives. We want our company to need support. In some locations, certain encouraging employees to seek ongoing nities for employees to serve in their be a place where our employees enjoy benefits are extended to family members. education and growth as a strategic communities and around the world. While meaningful work, build successful Read more in our Employee Wellness at element of their career at Lilly. We strive our company’s programs vary around the careers, and make important contribuLilly section. to provide opportunities for employees globe, we take a holistic approach to our tions to society. to build careers that reward them In this section, we discuss our efforts to personally and professionally. Ongoing provide employees with a safe, supportemployee development is critical to ive, and rewarding work environment, to our success. Lilly employees receive EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELLNESS offer fair compensation, career training approximately 40 hours of required and development, and to help employees training each year and may have access balance their work and personal lives. We to additional learning and development Keeping our people safe and healthy—whether at home or at work—is one of our highest priorities highlight our commitment to maintaining programs based upon their functional and aligns directly with our company values. a workplace that upholds all applicable expertise and career aspirations. labor standards and is free from coercion We realize that the journey toward safety excellence never ends, and we are constantly evaluating and discrimination. We also underscore approaches to improve our programs and to integrate injury prevention into everyday work. At our efforts to promote diversity and incluLilly, employee safety and wellness are managed by our Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) sion within our company, as a key driver team. For more information, see our discussion in Employee Safety. of business success and growth. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 15 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LILLY’S SUPPORT OF LABOR STANDARDS Diversity and 5 GENDER EQUALITY Our commitment to diversity goes beyond our own employees as well. We partner The UN Global Compact's principles state that both adults and children should be free from Inclusion at Lilly with advocacy groups, professional societies, community organizations, public and private healthcare administrators, compulsory or coerced labor, and that people should have the right to associate freely and bargain and others to help reduce health disparicollectively. Lilly fully supports these standards that are upheld in U.S. law. We believe that a diverse, inclusive ties and to address the unique health care culture provides fertile ground for needs of all communities. Our diversity Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining scientific and clinical innovation, and commitment extends through the full also sparks new customer insights. Lilly recognizes the importance of freedom of association in the workplace and respects the right spectrum of our business, including our Embracing diversity at Lilly means of our employees to join associations of their own choosing. We interact with works councils and clinical trial strategy and our supply chain. understanding, respecting, and valuing unions in several countries outside the United States; we support these bodies and work prodifferences, including, but not limited ductively with them. The vast majority of our workers globally are not covered under traditional collective-bargaining agreements. to, aspects of personal identity such as race, religion, gender, sexual orientaGovernance of Diversity In some countries where we operate, governments mandate working conditions, such as salary tion, gender identity, disability status, work style, national origin, and age. The and Inclusion increases, minimum wages, bonuses, number of weekly working hours, vacation time, and future of our business depends on us We believe that creating a diverse and overtime rates. These vary by country, and we follow these mandates wherever they are required. finding solutions to complex diseases, inclusive workplace helps us to better Several of our affiliates have employee councils that meet monthly with management to discuss and we want to recruit the best possible serve the global marketplace in which we workforce-related issues that directly impact them, such as company policies and organizational talent who may discover the next great operate. We hold our leaders accountable changes. As laws and guidelines change wherever we operate, we will continue to work with medical breakthrough. Beyond assemfor developing an inclusive workforce, inemployees, advocacy groups, and governing bodies to maintain compliance and respect the right bling a diverse workforce, once people cluding performance objectives focusing of free association. join the Lilly team we want them to feel on mentoring and career path planning. fully included in our company culture, Lilly’s senior vice president of global freely able to contribute their best ideas, human resources and diversity reports Forced and Child Labor and comfortable bringing their “whole directly to our chief executive officer. Our Lilly maintains a long-standing practice of complying with local minimum-age laws and requireselves” to work. top leaders also receive updates at least ments and does not employ child labor, or forced or compulsory labor, in any of our facilities globally. In 2011, Lilly revised our global standards and procedures to include specific language about human rights, including our expectation that vendors to Lilly abide by Lilly’s human rights “Diversity and inclusion are business imperatives at Lilly. We must better standards as one piece of our Supplier Code of Conduct. understand our changing and rapidly diversifying healthcare marketplace, and first-hand experience is the best way to start. We must look like our global communities so that we understand our customers’ many, diverse needs.” – Dave Ricks, President and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Lilly and Company LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 16 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption U.S. WORKFORCE ETHNIC DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY AT LILLY IN 2016 quarterly on our diversity and inclusion strategy, while our board of directors Creating an receives reports annually. Inclusive Culture We build a focus on diversity into our We strive to create a workplace in talent-management processes, from which all Lilly employees feel included, recruiting, to staffing, to learning and respected, and valued, which enables There are four development, to coaching and perfor2016 U.S. Workforce women on the board of directors—about 29% mance reviews, and to succession management. Supervisors are encourthem to do their best work for the people we serve. We stress the importance of inclusive leadership for supervisors and aged to consider diverse candidates The average for provide opportunities for employees to 20.2% for every staffing opportunity, whether 1 openly discuss and examine topics of Fortune 500 companies hiring internally or externally. Our Code is just under diversity and inclusion. of Business Conduct, The Red Book, also summarizes our approach to We support Employee Resource Groups Lilly also has four 29% creating an inclusive, nondiscriminatory (ERGs) and empower them to make women on its executive 22% environment. contributions vital to our company’s sucMinority Employees committee—also cess. We also extend this commitment to Leadership Positions2 Building a Diverse inclusivity by seeking relationships with a network of diverse suppliers. 8% Asian 63% 37% Workplace through men women Recruiting Major Initiatives in Global Workforce 2016 and Early 2017 7% African American We maintain a presence at top colleges We understand that the concept of diver53% 47% and universities and work with a wide sity means different things around the men women range of professional associations to globe. Our leadership teams across the 4% Latino recruit a diverse workforce. We also world formulate their diversity strategies attract top diverse talent through an U.S. Workforce by considering our corporate perspecextensive MBA internship program in 20 tive and then customizing their own 2% Two or more races 52% 48% Lilly locations around the world, with an plans based on local demographics and men women emphasis in the United States, China, culture. For example, some build plans and Japan. related to gender, provincial, generational, >1% 2020 Women on Boards. 2015 Gender Diversity 1  and disability diversity. Native American Index. Percentage of those who supervise others or hold 2  high-level strategic roles. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 17 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption RECOGNITION IN 2016 The Lilly Women’s women’s studies, we are providing Employee Journey conscious inclusion training across In 2016, Lilly conducted two studies our company globally, starting with our As a company whose culture is built on improving the lives of others, being recognized year after involving our global female employees, executive committee. We are planning year for our work to promote diversity and inclusion in our workforce is an honor we value highly. to better understand the progression of similar studies of our African American, their careers. Latino, Asian and mixed race employees THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION INDEX, 7th Globally in the United States in 2017. The Lilly Women’s Employee Journey gathered qualitative data from women With this knowledge, we plan to enhance DIVERSITY INC., Top 50 Companies For Diversity, 9th For LGBT Employees, 10th For in our commercial and research orgaour talent management practices to adOpportunity, 12th For Employee Resource Groups, 15th For Mentoring nizations about tangible and perceived vance the careers of all our employees, BLACK ENTERPRISE, Best Companies For Diversity challenges to female career advancewith additional insights into issues of ment generally and specifically into more race and ethnicity. CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS MAYOR’S CELEBRATION OF DIVERSITY, Sam H. Jones Award senior leadership roles. The study also identified the factors that impact womWORKING MOTHER, 100 Best Companies For Working Mothers, 22 Consecutive Years LGBT Self-identification en’s careers at important decision points. In the United States, we are required to NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FEMALE EXECUTIVES, Top Companies For Executive Women The journey was modeled on a business collect data on the race, gender, and tool called the Patient Journey that Lilly ethnicity of our employees as well as 2020 WOMEN ON BOARDS, Winning Company, Corporate Champion has used to understand patient perspecthose who are military veterans or have tives on various diseases and the potendisabilities—but there is no legal DIVERSITYMBA, Best Places For Women and Diverse Managers To Work tial contributions of our products. It promandate for similar data collection on vided an “employee-centric” approach to sexual orientation or gender identity. HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION, Corporate Equality Index—Perfect Score understanding “key moments of truth” Many leading U.S. employers and for women and enabled us to identify colleges have implemented voluntary CIVILIANJOBS.COM, Most Valuable Employers For Military the tensions that Lilly wants to address LGBT self-identification programs. In in order to improve the experience and order to make progress toward a richer DAVE THOMAS FOUNDATION, Best Adoption-Friendly Workplaces engagement of women as they progress and more inclusive workplace culture, BUSINESS INSIDER, Top 50 Best Companies To Work For In America in their careers. A second study took a in the first quarter of 2017, we invited look at additional data about men and employees in the United States to SCIENCE MAGAZINE, Science 2016 Top Employer women in the Lilly workforce and also at voluntarily self-identify as lesbian, gay, external research on gender at work. bisexual, transgender (LGBT), or POINTS OF LIGHT, Civic 50 Award Top 50 Most Community-Minded Companies heterosexual. We believe this is a good We are not waiting for all the data to be practice that can help Lilly to make TALENT BOARD, 2016 North American Candidate Experience Awards gathered to take action. As a result progress toward a richer and more of initial analysis of the data from the inclusive workplace culture. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 18 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS IN 2016 All employees who choose to self-identify as LGBT will be given the option to more inclusive workplace culture while partnering with the business to better Supplier Diversity do so confidentially, and this information serve our diverse marketplace. They We believe that doing business with a Employee resource groups are critical in will not appear in their personnel or offer strong support networks for their diverse set of suppliers delivers value to driving the diversity and inclusion strategy medical records file. members and help our company develop the company and creates a competitive across our company. talented individuals for future leadership advantage for us by linking the fresh Employees who identify as LGBT may opt roles at Lilly. perspectives and nimble thinking of ethin for communications from the Global Diversity and Inclusion Office to learn In recent years, Lilly’s ERGs have been nically diverse, women-owned, and/or 11 Employee Resource Groups about professional networking and mentoring opportunities, leadership seminars, expanding their grassroots activities into areas that will have a more direct small businesses to our internal business needs. and advanced diversity training. business impact, becoming even more Diverse suppliers are defined as those central to our company’s success. For with at least 51 percent ownership and In addition to better understanding the example, our ERGs participate in recontrol by an ethnic minority, a woman, 14,000 Members diversity of Lilly’s workforce, the information will be used to: cruiting events to help attract interns and new employees from universities or someone who is LGBT. Small suppliers are defined as per U.S. Small Business • Analyze levels of engagement and satand career fairs. They frequently consult Administration Small Business Size isfaction among LGBT employees and on marketing and workplace programs Standards. We actively seek to expand implement programs to enhance their and help to serve as language interpretrelationships with these types of suppli75 Satellite Groups Globally employee experience; • Identify LGBT employees with leaderers during company meetings. They also assist with corporate executive training ers, which we view as an often-untapped source of talent. ship potential for participation in career programs on topics such as cultural bias development programs; and inclusion. In addition, they provide In 2016, the U.S. Small Business • Develop staff training on sexual employees preparing for global assignAdministration recognized us as 15,000 Internal orientation and gender identity; and ments with a better understanding of the “outstanding” in our efforts to promote Volunteer Hours language and culture of the countries in and maintain supplier diversity. In 2016, • Further enhance Lilly’s work in chamwhich they will work. we spent approximately $600 million pioning LGBT equality and inclusion. with 570 suppliers classified as diverse, About 14,000 Lilly employees are memwoman-owned, and/or LGBT-owned Employee Resource bers of at least one of our 11 ERGs, businesses, as well as more than $560 8,000 External Volunteer Hours Groups (ERGs) which feature more than 75 chapters located at Lilly offices around the world. million with more than 1,500 suppliers classified as small businesses. Employee resource groups (ERGs) are more vital than ever to our company’s success. Our ERGs support a richer, LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 19 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Health, Safety, and Environment Making medicines that help people live at every point in our value chain: from the LILLY’S POLICY ON PROTECTING PEOPLE, THE ENVIRONMENT, AND OUR ASSETS longer, healthier, more active lives researchers who explore complicated requires the use of valuable resources, chemical reactions, to the manufacturers such as energy, water, and raw materials. who may work with hazardous substances, We strive to maintain a secure workplace and to protect people and the communities in which we At Lilly, we believe that promoting a and to the administrators who manage operate and serve. We are focused on continuously improving our health and safety practices to healthy environment, maintaining a safe complex regulatory responsibilities. promote the well-being of our people. We are committed to conducting business in a responsible workplace, and operating responsibly and environmentally sustainable manner. We are committed to a robust security culture to protect This section covers the broad range of are linked to our business and supported our people and brand from harm, and our assets from loss, theft, or damage. Each Lilly employee is our health, safety, and environmental by our mission and values. As a result, responsible for implementing our security practices and applying them in our daily activities. activities, from our approach and Lilly manages health, safety, and the management systems, to our work environment (HSE) under a unified addressing environmental and safety governance structure. issues across our value chain, to We strive to understand and systematiperformance data and examples demonIn 2016, Lilly scored a rating of Aon climate change and B on water from CDP, formerly the cally address the human behaviors and strating our progress. Carbon Disclosure Project. CDP is the world’s largest repository of environmental management choices that can improve HSE perforinformation. It allows companies and their stakeholders to assess environmental performance. mance. We encourage responsible action For CDP, a score of A or Ais considered leadership level, and a score of B is considered management level. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 20 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ACROSS THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE Materials, water, and energy, HSE management system and standards Research and Development Materials and Natural Resources Manufacturing We consider environmental factors from Our stakeholders, including customers, Our Elanco and Pharmaceutical manuthe earliest stages of design and developgovernments, and suppliers worldwide, facturing health, safety, and environment ment. We use the 12 principles of green are increasingly focused on the materials (HSE) committees oversee sustainability chemistry, environmental risk assessand chemicals used to make products. performance and compliance with applicaments, packaging manufacturing reviews, We have a chemical management proble HSE regulations, policies, procedures, and an Environmental Development gram and work to reduce our use of and standards while ensuring we continReview process to evaluate potential envimaterials, water, and other natural ually measure, report, and reduce Lilly’s ronmental impacts during the scale-up of resources when possible. environmental impacts associated with human health pharmaceutical production our own as well as contract manufacturing to manufacturing levels. organizations. Sales and Marketing Product Transport and Packaging Product Use Product End-of-Life At many Lilly sales and marketing offices Lilly tracks the GHG emissions of our prodLilly is committed to understanding the Due to patient safety considerations and worldwide, we manage projects to imuct transportation and distribution venpotential effects of pharmaceutical prodmedicine regulations, reuse and recycling prove environmental performance while dors, and we collaborate to reduce those ucts in the environment. We support using are not applicable to our products. We increasing employee awareness and impacts while ensuring product integrity. science-based evaluations to assess and are working with stakeholders to ensure action. Lilly continually works to improve We consider many factors in selecting reduce the environmental risks of our cost-effective approaches are available for the fuel efficiency of our sales force fleet product packaging, including sustainability pharmaceutical products. Through collabproduct end-of-life disposal that balance through vehicle choice and optimization of dimensions such as materials use and reorations with industry partners, academic environmental protection, patient privacy, driving and work practices. These efforts cyclability. We require packaging vendors researchers, and regulatory agencies, we legal compliance, and security. also reduce associated greenhouse gas in China, Europe, and the United States to continually work to further understand and (GHG) emissions. certify that they source all paper and cardproactively address any potential impacts board used to package our products from from our products. sustainable forests. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 21 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LILLY'S 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY GOALS 1 RECORDABLE INJURY AND LOST-TIME INJURY RATE LILLY’S SAFETY RECORDABLE LOST-TIME PROGRESS AND ENVIRONMENT YEAR INJURY RATE INJURY RATE PERFORMANCE GOAL 0.70 0.25 In 2013, we established new interim 20% 20% 15% 20% 2007 2014 1.44 0.90 0.60 0.36 goals for the three occupational safety metrics we track: recordable injuries, Reduction in Improvement in Reduction of Improvement in lost-time injuries, and motor vehicle colgreenhouse gas energy efficiency2 phosphorus waste efficiency5 2015 0.88 0.27 lision rate. These goals were developed emissions2,3 emissions while increasing recycling to reduce our injury rates across in wastewater4 rate above 70% and 2016 0.92 0.31 decreasing waste to landfill a seven-year period: 2014–2020. (baseline 2014) below 10% of total waste PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION 4% 1% 34% 20% HSE Governance Structure MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION Reduction Improvement Increase Decline YEAR RATE INTERIM GOAL 6 recycling rate increased to 60%, waste-to-landfill decreased to 13% GOAL 12% 2007 25% Lilly’s formal HSE governance structure SAFETY integrates HSE management company2014 18% wide. HSE oversight is exercised by: 0.70 0.25 12% 2015 2016 16% 16% • Our Global HSE Committee, which includes senior executives from key Total recordable Lost-time Motor vehicle areas of the business, ensures proper injury rate injury rate collision rate A new goal for measuring motor vehicle 6  collisions was established in 2015. oversight, and plays a central role in monitoring corporate performance The baseline for our goals is 2012, except as otherwise noted. Following World Resources Institute guidance, 1  and continuous improvement; progress toward environmental goals is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. • The vice president responsible for 2 Per square foot of site space.  Corporate Engineering and Global HSE, 3 This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions related to site-purchased energy (e.g., electricity,  steam, chilled water) and on-site fuel combustion. who works closely with the Global HSE 4 In absolute terms. Significant source reductions are planned to move us toward our 2020 goal.  Committee to approve appropriate 5 Per unit of production or site-relevant index. Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed  “beneficially reused” without extensive processing. metrics and goals, assess company LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 22 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption performance, and oversee compliance with all HSE regulations, policies, proLilly’s HSE Policy • Management System Standard and Verification and Corrective Action Audits cedures, and standards globally; • The manufacturing HSE committees, Statement, Procedures, Standard: defines requirements to ensure compliance with Lilly HSE Each year, we audit approximately 30 percent of our sites globally, following which support these efforts and drive ongoing improvement throughout and Standards standards, applicable regulatory requirements, and other external HSE the protocols outlined for each of our Global HSE Standards. Our five-year manufacturing; and For clarity, Lilly has brief, princistandards to which we subscribe. audit plan, updated annually, determines • Executives and lead teams in each of ple-based policy statements that are • Global Engineering Requirements: which sites to audit based on risk. Exterour business groups, manufacturing, implemented in two ways: through our governs the engineering aspects of nal and internal auditors participate in Lilly Research Laboratories, and genglobal procedures, which describe basic our operations and their energy and each audit conducted. eral and administrative functions, who principles and general expectations; and environmental impacts. manage governance for HSE in those through our global standards, which • Product Stewardship Standard: areas. provide auditable, detailed requirements. These key governance docuprovides a systematic way to manage product and process risks throughout Environmental LILLY HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT ments, and our related management systems, together address employee the product life cycle, from discovery to product end-of-life. Management GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE health and safety and environmental protection. BO A R D O F D I R E C T O R S Lilly’s global standards define our comManagement Systems Lilly takes a broad approach to understanding and managing possible HSE mitments and guide our efforts. They Lilly sites and business areas have HSE issues across the product life cycle. Our EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE include: management systems aligned with our Product Stewardship Standard provides • Protecting People, the Environment, Management System Standard, which a systematic way to manage product G LO B A L H S E C O M M I T T E E and Our Assets Policy Statement: is consistent with third-party standards and process risks, from the discovery of sets environmental expectations such as International Organization for new medicines through use, to product related to compliance and environStandardization (ISO) 14001, Occupaend-of-life and disposal considerations. ELANCO7 PHARMACEUTICALS 7 mental protection for our people tional Health and Safety Assessment Reflecting the breadth of product7  Our Elanco and pharmaceutical operations have and operations. Series (OHSAS) 18001, and the Amerrelated sustainability issues we consider separate but aligned HSE governance structures ican Chemistry Council’s Responsible and manage, the Product Stewardship for manufacturing, research and development, and • Environmental Standard: provides general and administrative functions. The Elanco Care Management System (RCMS®). Our Standard guides us in these areas: and pharmaceutical governance structures share more detailed requirements and common Lilly policies, standards, and assurance global HSE management system is also systems and establish their own as appropriate. establishes the core governance • Emerging issues: Identifying, analyzing, certified to RCMS, and almost half of our requirements to manage the and managing environmental issues as manufacturing locations are certified to environmental and energy-related they arise; one or more external standards includaspects of our operations. • Procurement: Considering environing ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, Voluntary Protection Programs, and RCMS. mental factors in purchasing decisions; LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 23 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • Product discovery: Reviewing internal and external research operations to Green Chemistry and When we are developing a new human medicine at Lilly, green chemistry conwe operate have developed chemical management legislation—such as the foster high HSE standards; • Product development: Using inherEngineering in Research siderations are a complement to other criteria such as quality, cost, and speed to REACH regulation in the European Union (EU)—which requires some companies ently safer design principles, such as green chemistry, as well as engineering and Development market. From the selection of candidate molecules, through the identification of to collect and register information about the chemicals they manufacture or use. innovations, to identify and reduce The research and development phase manufacturing processes, our estabThese regulations may require replacing HSE hazards from new production significantly impacts the environmental lished business practices hold our develchemicals identified as hazardous with processes where possible; footprint of pharmaceutical manufacturing. opment teams accountable for process safer alternatives, when available. To At Lilly, we strive to embed environmenefficiency, the type and quantity of materiaddress these concerns, Lilly has begun • Product packaging: Reducing the tal innovation early in the product als used, and safety. At major milestones, implementation of a formal program and amount of packaging and using development life cycle through our focus we evaluate success and share feedback screening process to help us evaluate environmentally-preferred materials, on green chemistry. Our green chemistry with development teams. Since we outcertain designated “chemicals of conwhen possible, while satisfying initiatives include evaluating less-toxic source a significant amount of product cern” (COCs) throughout the research regulatory and customer requirechemical alternatives for use in manudevelopment, we share guidelines, such and development process. Our process ments, meeting marketing objectives, facturing and exploring innovations that as the Lilly solvent selection guide, with also addresses mitigation steps where and preserving product integrity; can lessen the negative outputs resulting our partners to ensure consistent objecnew restrictions may impact our existing • Distribution: Ensuring safe product from the production of medicine. tives, processes, and outcomes. operations. We are committed to ensurtransport and warehousing while ing that our facilities and supply chain reducing associated environmental Green chemistry and engineering has Employing green chemistry and engiremain in compliance with chemical impacts; been a focus area at Lilly for many neering, we have been able to enhance management laws. • Marketing and sales: Working with years. We engage in a variety of activithe safety profile of the manufacturing customers to enhance the patient ties, including: process by significantly reducing the risk In addition to our green chemistry experience related to product environ• Eliminating or reducing the hazardous scale of the most hazardous manufacassessments, during the scale-up of mental performance; materials used to make a product; turing steps. We are also focused on the medicine production to manufacturing • Suppliers, contract operations, and adoption of greener and safer solvents levels in our human pharmaceutical • Shrinking the waste profiles of certain alliances: Evaluating and influencing where possible. We have replaced business, we use an Environmental molecules through reduced solvent the HSE performance of suppliers, several hazardous solvents with safer Development Review (EDR) process to and water use; contract operations, and alliances; and alternatives, including significant, nearly evaluate other potential environmental • Increasing the overall efficiency of carbon-neutral, efforts to limit the use issues and opportunities. This process • Supply chain management: Establishmaterial use; of dichloromethane (a hazardous air polhelps us identify and address potential ing plans to ensure business continuity • Advancing the underlying green chemlutant and suspected carcinogen). impacts arising from manufacturing, and appropriate emergency response, istry of medicine development; and suggest process improvements, and if needed. • Making production both safer for our share learning as new medicines employees and more environmentalGlobal Chemical Management transition from the laboratory to the ly friendly, through a commitment to Governments around the world and manufacturing facility. continuous processing improvement. across many of the regions where LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 24 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption External Collaborations Level (GAL) tool. Until now, the use of green chemistry metrics among Manufacturing Energy Use and Lilly actively pursues wider industry pharmaceutical companies has been Greenhouse 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 13 CLIMATE ACTION collaborations to help advance green The majority of Lilly’s direct environmenchemistry, through a combination of hampered by the lack of an agreed-uptal impacts arise from the manufacturing Gas Emissions on standard. This new tool makes the of medicines. We track and manage these At Lilly, we have set aggressive targets dialogue and leadership with peer development of objective goals, like impacts as they relate to energy and wafor improving energy efficiency and companies, scientific partnerships, and process efficiency and mass intensity, ter use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, thereby reducing our GHG emissions. To sponsorship of research. In 2016, we were easier. It uses industry benchmarks the creation and elimination of waste, advance progress towards our goals, we involved in the following collaborations: to create a unified scoring system for and energy efficiency throughout the have implemented global energy man• Green Peptide, Oligonucleotide, green chemistry formulations, and manufacturing process. agement practices. Our multi-faceted and Antibody-drug Conjugate (ADC) introduces a new green scorecard for approach includes: Leadership: Through the American use across the supply chain—includChemical Society’s (ACS) Pharmaceuing contract manufacturing. A paper tical Roundtable, Lilly led the formaabout the new system was published tion of a new sub-group focused on in Green Chemistry in 2017. COLLABORATING ON A GREEN CHEMISTRY SCORECARD greener peptide, oligonucleotide, and • Training Future Green Chemists: ADC products. Over the past decade, Through the ACS Pharmaceutical peptides have shown great potential as therapeutic targets in both human and Roundtable, Lilly collaborated with Suppliers Materials other pharmaceutical companies to animal health. But their manufacture design and implement a green chemroutinely involves hazardous reagents, istry curriculum for use at colleges produces high waste-to-mass ratios, and other organizations. Dr. Michael Supply Chain Government and requires solvent-intensive purificaKopach, a Research Advisor at Lilly, • Regulate E-factor labeling of tion systems. Complicating the issue, presented the new curriculum at the chemical raw materials and peptides are often synthesized by concommodities 2016 ACS conference in Philadelphia. tract manufacturers, driving a need to share best practices and find opportu• Research Grants: Through the ACS Green Aspiration • Fast-track approve green chemistry process changes Pharmaceutical Roundtable, Lilly is Level nities for green innovation. By investing early in environmentally-friendly proactive in selecting and funding reduction methods, participating compasearchers who are advancing the field nies hope to create the scale necesof green chemistry. Since 2005, Lilly sary for these technologies to become has provided more than $2 million in research grants. In 2016, a record five Pharmaceutical cost-competitive in the long run. Industry researchers were funded, three in • Green Chemistry Metrics: Lilly continuous flow chemistry and two for • Standardize metrics with simple and worked with the IQ Green Chemistry complete E-factors greener biologics processes. Working Group to collaboratively develop • Set goals using Green Aspiration Level and introduce the Green Aspiration LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 25 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • Designing for energy efficiency in new GHG emissions, and we are committed same time, several of these largest sites In 2016, our efforts received a B rator updated processes and facilities; to continually expanding the scope and improved their energy performance as ing from CDP’s water program, above • Operating our facilities and equipment quality of our disclosure in this area. measured per unit of production. While the average for the pharmaceutical efficiently; CDP, formerly known as the Carbon production increases present challenges industry. Our Engineering Technology Disclosure Project, recognized our to our performance against our goals, we Center helps Lilly sites around the world • Monitoring and reporting energy 2016 efforts with a score of A-, which encourage and reward these process enidentify water-saving technologies, and consumption and resulting GHG is considered leadership level. ergy intensity improvements. We will conLilly sites can apply for project capital emissions; tinue to evaluate further use of renewable funding through Lilly’s dedicated Energy • Conducting energy assessments and Trends in 2016 energy to diversify our energy sources, and Waste Reduction Fund. implementing initiatives to enhance Through 2016, we decreased our emisdecrease our GHG emissions, and lessen energy efficiency; sions intensity by four percent comour energy use intensity over time. Trends in 2016 • Utilizing alternative energy sources, pared to our 2012 baseline. Total energy 6 CLEAN WATER 14 LWATER IFE BELOW In 2013, we introduced a goal to reduce new technologies, and best practices AND SANITATION consumption was down slightly from absolute phosphorus emissions in our for energy savings; and 2015, though overall progress against Water Use wastewater discharge by 15 percent by • Participating in local, regional, and naour energy intensity goal remained flat. Manufacturing operations account 2020, as compared to 2014 levels. This tional forums to influence responsible There are several reasons for this. Our for the majority of the water used by goal addresses an issue that is increasand cost-effective decision-making and goal measures both emissions intensity Lilly. Our manufacturing locations that ingly important to communities, regupolicy development relative to energy. and energy intensity per square foot of produce injectable medicines require exlators, and investors. In 2016, while still Lilly’s 2020 goal is both to improve our site space. During the year, seven of our ceptionally high-quality water, while our in the planning phase to achieve this overall energy efficiency and to reduce 10 largest energy-consuming sites—reputility operations use water for cooling goal, our total wastewater phosphorus Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by resenting nearly 90 percent of our total and to support steam boilers. Some emissions grew to 170 metric tonnes, a 20 percent per square foot of site space, energy consumption—increased producsites have updated equipment to use wa34 percent increase from 2014. Process as compared to our 2012 baseline. We tion, in turn increasing their overall enterless cooling systems, and others rechanges at several large sites negatively also report several categories of Scope 3 ergy use per square foot of space. At the claim water for this purpose. To a lesser impacted our overall progress on this extent, we consume water for domestic goal. Significant source reduction projects use in our offices. Lilly has assessed our are planned that include phasing out water risks, and while we generally opand replacing selected cleaning agents PROMOTING COGENERATION erate in locations where water scarcity with non-phosphorus-based alternatives. and quality risk is low, we will continue In addition, technical teams at Lilly are Cogeneration, which uses combustion to generate electricity on-site while also recovering usable heat, our focus on conserving water, reducing evaluating existing cleaning processes presents another opportunity to reduce GHG emissions in our operations. During 2016, our manufacturing our intake, and improving water qualiand plan to apply phosphorus-reducing site in Kinsale, Ireland, began operation of a new cogeneration facility, which is expected to annually ty. Potential future regional water risk, improvements to key sites worldwide. generate 4.4 MW of electricity and supply the site with 3.9 MW of thermal energy. This could decrease unpredictable costs, and climate change the site’s GHG emissions by 3,600 tonnes CO2e per year. Three additional Lilly sites have cogeneration concerns have further strengthened our In 2016, Lilly’s total water intake equaled units in operation, and we are exploring other opportunities for cogeneration at manufacturing facilities. commitment to use this resource wisely. 14.5 billion liters, a two percent increase from 2015, due primarily to production increases. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 26 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Waste Trends in 2016 90,000 metric tonnes of total waste These projects collectively save more Lilly tracks progress toward our waste remained. While this amount was 22 than 879 billion BTUs of energy annually, In 2013, we introduced a goal to achieve efficiency goal by measuring the amount percent more than our 2012 baseline, it avoiding about 109,658 metric tonnes of a 20 percent improvement in waste of waste we generate that is available for represented a 20 percent reduction as carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) of GHG efficiency by 2020, as compared to our recycling. This does not include materials compared to 2015. emissions each year. 2012 baseline. We also aim to increase our recycling rate above 70 percent and that are beneficially reused, which make We improved our recycling rate to 60 We actively recognize innovation and exdecrease our waste-to-landfill below up the bulk of waste we generate. From percent in 2016, up from 47 percent cellence in HSE management by granting 10 percent of our total waste volume. 2012 through 2016, our waste efficiency in 2012, and we sent 13 percent of our annual HSE awards. Nomination for For Lilly, total waste does not include declined by 20 percent, though our 2016 waste to landfills, compared to 28 perthese awards represents a significant material that is directly reused for other efficiency performance is a marked cent to landfill in 2012. During the year, accomplishment on behalf of project purposes. improvement of 23 percent compared 24 of 53 Lilly sites globally reported zero teams, and we seek to reward teams to the previous year. A combination of waste-to-landfill status, indicating that that have shown an exemplary comLilly uses the following hierarchy of facility acquisitions and processing they send less than 0.5 percent of the mitment to helping Lilly achieve energy approaches to process waste generated changes in our animal health business, waste they generate to landfill. and GHG emissions reduction goals. In across our manufacturing and research including equipment upgrades in our addition to criteria such as a project’s and development operations: production facilities, helps account for energy and GHG reductions, we consider both the fluctuations and significant • Eliminate or reduce the amount of waste produced; improvements in this time period. We will Encouraging Eco-Efficiency the potential to replicate the approach • Reuse materials when possible (incontinue to seek opportunities to improve Across Our Operations in other locations. Of 71 nominations in 2016, 23 energy reduction projects were cluding closed loop recycling); waste efficiency and forecast improveWe established the Energy and Waste recognized with awards. Since 2012, 347 ment in this area in the coming years Reduction Fund in 2006 to encourage • Recycle spent materials to make new projects have been nominated, with 116 through 2020. projects that reduce our overall products; receiving this award. environmental impacts. The fund • Recover energy from waste (through In 2016, Lilly generated 297,000 metric supports projects that demonstrate incineration), where possible; tonnes of total waste, representing a the greatest potential for reductions in • Treat waste to reduce toxicity and four percent increase as compared to emissions and energy use, which are not volume; and our 2012 baseline, and an 18 percent covered by local capital budgets. Since • Send waste to landfill (as a disposal increase as compared to 2015 amounts. 2006, Lilly has invested more than $38.9 method of last resort, or when legally However, we were able to designate million in this fund, enabling the implerequired). 207,000 tonnes of this waste for reuse, mentation of 151 projects, which all told, much of it as fertilizer. After reuse, garnered nearly $20.5 million in savings. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 27 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Environmental Performance Indicators8,9 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) (metric tonnes CO2e) 1,550,000 1,600,000 1,540,000 1,540,000 1,520,000 Scope 1 435,000 485,000 459,000 476,000 476,000 Scope 2 1,116,000 1,112,000 1,083,000 1,066,000 1,041,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (related to goal) 57.1 58.3 57.8 55.2 54.6 (metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet)10 Scope 3 Emissions (not included in metrics above)11 (metric tonnes CO2e) 306,000 300,000 290,000 302,000 299,000 ENERGY USE Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 10,800,000 11,300,000 11,200,000 11,200,000 11,000,000 Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet)10 449 465 471 454 450 Direct Energy Consumption (million BTUs)12 4,040,000 4,390,000 4,240,000 4,390,000 4,390,000 Indirect Energy Consumption (million BTUs)13 6,740,000 6,870,000 6,940,000 6,800,000 6,630,000 WATER USE Water Intake (billion liters)14 13.4 13.7 15.0 14.2 14.5 Phosphorus emissions to wastewater (metric tonnes) --127 133 170 WASTE Total Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 285,000 310,000 295,000 251,000 297,000 Hazardous Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 26,000 24,000 24,000 25,000 24,000 Non-Hazardous Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 259,000 286,000 271,000 225,000 272,000 Total Waste Generation not Including Reuse (for recycling goal) 74,000 75,000 89,000 112,000 90,000 (metric tonnes)15 LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 28 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Waste Disposition Recycled (includes combustion with energy recovery) (metric tonnes) 34,300 32,500 46,700 57,000 54,000 Treated (includes combustion without energy recovery) (metric tonnes) 18,700 19,900 30,100 26,500 23,900 Landfilled (metric tonnes) 20,700 22,600 12,000 28,400 11,900 Waste Recycling Rate 47% 43% 53% 51% 60% ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances16 8 5 3 5 5 Number of Significant Spills17 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental Fines Paid ($) $732 $0 $0 $0 $0 ENERGY, WASTE, WATER, AND NATURAL RESOURCE USE REDUCTION FUND Expenditures ($ millions) $1.1 $1.8 $1.6 $1.7 $0.9 8  Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology and other factors. Some segments do not add up to totals due to rounding. 9  In 2015, adjustments were made to data for all years to reflect the acquisition of animal health operations from Lohmann (closed April 30, 2014) and Novartis (closed January 15, 2015). 10 Data includes GHG emissions related to manufacturing sites only. Data includes Scope 3 emissions from employee business travel (personal and rental cars, taxi, rail, and air travel), employee commuting, contracted product transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations, 11  and non-Kyoto compound emissions (refrigerents, VOCs, etc.) Data does not include sales force travel using company vehicles, use of Lilly aircraft, or product distribution with Lilly vehicles. Those items are Scope 1 and included in the data above. 12 Data includes energy from combustion of coal, fuel oil, natural gas, and liquid propane. 13 Data includes energy from purchased electricity, steam, and chilled water. “Water intake” is the total amount of water coming into a site, including water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities, 14  and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. Totals include a small amount of rainwater intake not included in other water intake subcategories. Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without extensive processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. 15  Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority. The reporting may be immediate 16  (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in harm to people or the environment. “Significant spill” in this report refers to any unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of a substance that resulted in damage to the environment 17  (i.e., human health, aquatic life, or wildlife) or a material event requiring reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Damage means the actual or imminent alteration of the environment so as to render the environment harmful, detrimental, or injurious. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 29 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Supply Chain Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management, right to halt production or, if necessary, to terminate contracts. velopment. The program uses Lilly HSE tools that align with PSCI principles. This We rely on our suppliers—including those which PSCI created together with its due diligence process focuses on the who supply us with active pharmaceutical member companies. These principles, safe management of molecules and the ingredients (APIs) and contract manualigned with the United Nations Global Assessing Contract capabilities of contract research organifacturers—to help us ensure our human Compact, provide the pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Research zations to meet our HSE requirements. industry with a consistent standard of and animal medicines are available. As we have broadened our manufacturing measurement for suppliers in the areas Laboratories At Elanco, we contract with more than For more than a decade, Lilly HSE pro160 CMOs and are systematically asbase and integrated new acquisitions into of ethics, labor, health and safety, the fessionals have worked to assess and sessing their HSE performance. In 2016, our operations, we have taken significant environment, and related management strengthen performance at the outside we audited all of those suppliers deemed steps to reduce our exposure to the risks systems. The principles themselves and research laboratories and contract to be higher-risk, as well as 50 percent inherent in managing a global supply related information can be found on the manufacturing operations with which of CMOs designated medium-risk. chain. Lilly continues to strengthen our PSCI website. we do business. Lilly utilizes these Within Lilly’s human pharmaceutical ongoing efforts to monitor our supply In all new contract manufacturing third-party suppliers in three areas of division, in 2016 we strengthened our chain for performance on HSE indicators. operations (CMO) contracts, Lilly asks our business: our research and developalignment with PSCI through a wider use We have also taken steps to engage our that suppliers support the PSCI princiment division; Elanco, our animal health of common tools and practices. As part suppliers more directly on HSE issues, ples, and they receive our expectations division; and our human health pharmaof this relationship, Lilly staff particiand we have taken a more active role in for HSE performance in our Supplier ceutical division. All three areas share pate in PSCI work groups and have led helping our suppliers to build expertise Code of Conduct. We also use an annual a common methodology and reporting capability-building trainings for several around HSE topics. This includes our review process that evaluates them acframework for assessing risk, and that manufacturers in India. Dedicated HSE ongoing work as part of the Pharmacording to a number of factors, including information is included in the quarprofessionals oversee our CMO assessceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), a their HSE performance. We have made terly reports received by the board of ment process, and in 2016 they engaged non-profit business membership organisignificant progress in targeting those directors’ Public Policy and Compliance 55 CMOs, plus additional “suppliers of zation founded in 2006 which counts Lilly suppliers that we deem to be at greatCommittee. We designate suppliers that focus” that we monitor closely. as one of its inaugural members. est risk of violations to our HSE stanare critical to our business as “suppliers dards. The Public Policy and Compliance of focus,” and take a special interest in Committee of our board of directors Governance of receives quarterly risk reports highlighttheir performance. We use a system to Green Procurement Initiative address critical concerns with suppliers, Lilly continues to expand our efforts to Supply Chain at Lilly ing HSE areas of concern in our supply which helps us ensure that suppliers decrease the company’s environmenIn addition to our global standards that chain. In the small percentage of cases, make progress and remedy problems. we intervene quickly when we become tal impacts across product transport, govern HSE issues, our Product Stewaware that there are serious HSE issues For nearly a decade, our research manufacturing, and research, and to ardship Standard informs our approach and expect those suppliers to implement division has performed assessments support the development of markets for to managing risk across our supply changes. If swift corrective action is not of third-party suppliers of APIs and “greener” products. Lilly’s green prochain. In 2016, we aligned our procuretaken by the supplier, we reserve the other materials needed for medicine decurement initiative builds these efforts ment policies more closely with the into multi-year agreements that will LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 30 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption track progress over time. As part of our focuses on fleet fuel economy and GHG Pharmaceutical packaging must meet In transporting our products, we have procurement process, suppliers must emissions, office energy conservation, stringent regulatory and internal stanmade strides in reducing the volume of complete an initial HSE questionnaire and waste reduction. Each year, our dards. In some cases, this prevents us empty space in the packages we ship, that is subsequently updated every two affiliates look for opportunities to from using recycled content in packaging, which has increased our overall fleet years. We also ask our suppliers to proenhance their environmental perforas is the case with containers that come efficiency. We are nearly halfway vide good faith assistance in identifying mance by identifying and implementing into direct contact with our products, through our 2017 goal of converting initiatives they are undertaking related new projects and setting targets. where we require virgin materials be 50 percent of our overseas shipments to HSE, and to respond to data requests used to deter counterfeiting. Where we from air to sea transport, which emits On the road, Lilly optimizes the fuel from Lilly to help us establish goals and can, we continually seek to improve significantly fewer GHG emissions while efficiency of our sales force fleet by metrics for HSE performance in our packaging design to reduce the amount protecting product quality and strengthchoosing vehicles with better fuel econsupply chain. When an HSE event occurs of packaging used, include lower-impact ening security assurance. omy and promotes driving and work that may affect the delivery of Lilly materials, and ensure recyclability. Our Product End-of-Life practices that emphasize safety and fuel materials, we require suppliers to provide Product Stewardship Standard helps set savings. These efforts, in turn, also reLilly with timely notification. expectations for these efforts. duce the GHG emissions associated with Unlike many consumer products that For certain products that Lilly manufacour sales fleet. Lilly centrally manages We require packaging vendors in China, can be recycled, or are composed of tures, such as injection devices used by vehicle selection across the European Europe, and the United States to certify materials that can be reclaimed at the patients to administer some of our medUnion and across the United States, that all paper and cardboard used to end of their usefulness, medicines are icines, the materials required demand which improves efficiency while enabling ship our products is sourced from susby nature different. Public health regulathe highest standards of quality, sterility, us to implement strong safety and envitainable forests. For folding cartons, tions often prohibit the use of recovered and reliability to ensure patient safety. ronmental standards. leaflets, labels, and combination prodmaterials from pharmaceutical products Although we consider environmental ucts, we accept certifications provided like those produced by Lilly. impacts in our design and materials by the Forest Stewardship Council. For selection efforts in this area, we procure Packaging and fiber sourcing, chain of custody, and Transportation only virgin raw materials for manufacproduct labels, Lilly accepts certification turing to meet the exacting standards from the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. for these devices. Lilly tracks the GHG emissions of our product transportation and distribution Sales and Marketing vendors, and we collaborate to reduce those impacts while also ensuring prodIn 2016, we began allowing customers in the United States to return coolers, which are used in Our sales and marketing affiliates around uct integrity. We consider many factors direct-to-physician sample shipments that require cold storage, for reuse or recycling. We include the world develop goals and implement in selecting product packaging, including prepaid return labels that can be applied over the original UPS shipping label for easy return. improvement strategies as part of our sustainability considerations, such as GREENDirections program, which materials use and recyclability. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 31 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Lilly continues to work with customers, Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries improper disposal of unused products Some concerns, particularly outside of industry partners, and public health and Associations (EFPIA), as well as in or through manufacturing discharges. the United States, include how PiE might officials to address these product endCanada (Health Products Stewardship Residues of these medicines may pass contribute to antimicrobial resistance of-life issues. Our Product Stewardship Association). through waste and sewage treatment or the build-up of environmentally-perGovernance Committee meets quarterly facilities and enter rivers, streams, or sistent pollutants, especially if water Lilly believes that recommendations to and regularly engages with our leaderlakes. While reported concentrations treatment is inadequate. These concerns dispose of most unused and unwantship to better integrate product stewardof pharmaceuticals in the environment are further evidenced by the United ed medicines in household trash are ship efforts into our business. We pro(PiE) are usually extremely low, their Nations’ Strategic Approach to Internawell supported by current and ongomote policy decisions that are efficient, presence and biological potency raise tional Chemicals Management. At Lilly, ing research as environmentally safe, effective, and that protect both human questions about how to best evaluate we are aware of increasing interest in effective, and easy for consumers to health and the environment. We also potential associated human and environPiE, and we are committed to working understand. However, there are excepsupport educating patients and caregivmental risks. with others to continue to monitor and tions. For certain medications that may ers on proper disposal of medicines, as address concerns as they arise. be diverted or pose an immediate risk Using advanced analytical testing techwell as disposal of syringes, needles, to human health, the U.S. FDA recomnologies, scientists today can measure and other sharps used in home settings. mends disposal by flushing down the trace amounts of PiE that were previWe communicate this information to toilet. When in-home disposal is not ously undetectable. Studies to date, inGovernance of PiE at Lilly patients through product user manuals, Due its importance to Lilly and our preferred or allowed by law, we support cluding the oft-cited World Health Orgaand through The Lilly Answers Center, stakeholders, we have established a PiE voluntary industrywide, cost-effective nization’s (WHO’s) 2011 Technical Report a hotline that answers frequently asked governance committee that reports to disposal solutions for unused medicines on Pharmaceuticals in Drinking Water, questions and provides metrics to our our executive-level Global HSE Committhat are safe and easy for patients, preand the extensive joint study by the U.S. management team on the type and voltee to set strategic direction, support vent misuse of prescription drugs, and Environmental Protection Agency and ume of inquiries we receive on product effective internal collaborations, and ensure environmental protection. U.S. Geological Survey published in 2017, end-of-life issues. recommend resources for related initiaindicate that these trace amounts are tives. The PiE committee also provides We are actively involved in the Pharunlikely to impact human health. WHO maceutical Product Stewardship Work Pharmaceuticals in has cautioned water suppliers, regulalong-range oversight for the programs that control active pharmaceutical the Environment (PiE) Group, a U.S.-based membership assotors, and other interested parties to not discharges from manufacturing sites, ciation of manufacturers of prescription let concerns over PiE divert attention as well as offering guidance to the Lilly and over-the-counter medicines that and resources from other critical water After they are used by people to treat Aquatic Exposure Guideline Committee supports compliance with U.S. housequality priorities. diseases and health conditions, phar(LAEG). The LAEG sets levels that can hold disposal regulations for unused maceuticals typically enter our natural be safely discharged while protecting medicines and sharps. We also engage environment through normal biological surface water uses, including drinking with other industry stakeholders in the processes. To a much lesser extent, they water for people, and surface water European Union, such as European may also enter the environment from used by wildlife. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 32 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LAEG also consider levels of antimiTo study the overall impact of our IMPROVED METHODOLOGIES FOR ASSESSING ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS crobials that can safely be discharged operations on local habitats, our site in into the environment. Our animal health Kinsale, Ireland, has conducted a division, Elanco recently announced its continuous evaluation of aquatic habitat Lilly participates in the Intelligence-led Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment project Antibiotic Stewardship Plan. quality since 1978. This evaluation has (iPiE project), a program supported by the Innovative Medicines Initiative, a public-private partnership shown no evidence of an adverse impact coordinated by the European Commission and the industry group EFPIA, in collaboration with universities Our manufacturing governance commitand other research organizations, public bodies, and nonprofit groups. Our current commitment to the from the Lilly wastewater discharge tees have direct oversight and accountproject runs through 2018. point on any aspect of habitat quality in ability for environmental impacts arising the study area. This long-term effort has from our operations. They work to minisupported studies published in peerThe iPiE project develops frameworks that support environmental testing for new pharmaceuticals, mize or mitigate PiE impacts across the reviewed scientific publications and as well as helps to prioritize the testing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) that were approved product value chain, by implementing continues to support academic research for use before 2006 and that remain in use today. The frameworks draw upon existing data on the and continuously evaluating protective for university students. environmental impact of APIs, toxicological studies, and computer models. The project will create a measures for both our operations and those of our manufacturing partners. modeling tool to screen APIs under development and prioritize existing APIs for enhanced testing. We assess our medicines for potential External Collaborations environmental impacts, ensuring that We continue to partner with industry, they meet regulatory requirements and academia, and governments to improve • Continued to publish and review • Worked with the Pharmaceutical internal standards before introducing our both our understanding of, and our rearticles in scientific journals, present Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) to deliver products to markets. We use recognized sponse to, PiE. Among ongoing efforts at conferences and workshops, and training sessions for external manscientific processes recommended by in 2016, Lilly scientists and technical participate in meetings concerning the ufacturing partners on risk-based U.S. and European regulatory agencies experts have: safety of pharmaceutical residues in approaches to managing APIs in for identifying and minimizing any signifi• Helped develop the Eco-Pharmacowater, in collaboration with the U.S. manufacturing effluents. cant risks from residues of our products Stewardship plan in collaboration with National Research Council, the U.S. in the environment, and for determining EFPIA and the Inter-Association-IniEPA, and the Society of Environmental predicted no-effect concentration values tiative on PiE, including a proposal for Toxicology and Chemistry; for our medicines. We also make inforextended environmental risk assess• Served on technical committees mation on the environmental hazards and ment evaluations, and a model for addressing topics related to PiE for impacts of our pharmaceutical products wastewater control limits for pharindustry trade associations such as available through product safety data maceutical residues at manufacturing EFPIA, the International Federation for sheets and through the FASS product facilities; Animal Health—Europe and the U.S. database published by the Swedish Animal Health Institute; and Pharmaceutical Trade Association. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 33 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Elanco: Enriching the health of people, and protecting the planet, a concept we refer to as Promoting Food Security 1.3 million eggs have been donated in five states through six food pantries in Life Through Food “One Health.” Antibiotic resistance occurs naturally Because Elanco is dedicated to improving animal health—including the health the United States. • Bring 100,000 families out of hunger in and Companionship over time, as bacteria develop resistant genes that are then passed on to other of animals raised for food—we have a direct connection to helping feed people the coming years through a partnership with Heifer International projects all over the world. in Asia and Africa, as well as support bacteria. This natural process can be Elanco Animal Health is a division of of the East Africa Dairy Development magnified by the misuse and overuse of Through global partnerships and Lilly that focuses on animal well-being, project. antibiotics. At Elanco, we are committed volunteer efforts in our own backyard, we animal productivity, and food safety in to working together with the human, • Raise awareness about the growing support community programs and more than 75 countries. Our vision is animal, and environmental health comchallenge of food security and partner initiatives that provide food to those who that food and companionship enrich life. munities to develop effective, sustainable with others to develop solutions need it and promote awareness of hunger Given the focus of our business, breaking solutions to the problem of antibiotic through the ENOUGH Movement, a and food insecurity. Our commitment the cycle of hunger and promoting the resistance. Elanco’s Eight-Point Antibiotic global community working together focuses on three areas: employee human-pet bond are a natural fit for Stewardship Plan promotes the responsito ensure everyone has access to engagement, community and customer Elanco’s corporate responsibility efforts ble use of antibiotics, reduces the nutritious, affordable food—today and engagement, and sustainable developand further extend our efforts to use of shared-class antibiotics, and in the future. ment, with a unified goal of nutritious improve global health. replaces antibiotics with alternatives. food that is accessible and affordable to We’re moving swiftly ahead to fulfill that all. We have pledged to “break the cycle Promoting the Promoting Responsible plan, while respecting that there are no quick and easy solutions. of hunger” in 100 communities around the world by 2020. We’ve defined Human-Animal Bond Use of Antibiotics in By 2020, Elanco commits to delivering a breaking the cycle as ensuring at least 100 people are food secure for at least Pets enrich our lives through compantotal of 25 viable development projects Food-producing Animals that address critical unmet challenges one year. To date, we’ve impacted 72 communities and more than ionship, the service they provide, and the proven health and social benefits in livestock production via alternatives to people and communities. At Elanco, Antibiotics, including those manufac750,000 households. to shared-class antibiotics. We believe we advocate for the health benefits tured by Elanco, Lilly’s animal health that by that date, we can provide soluAs part of our focus on food security, pets bring to people by supporting and division, are used on farms to help tions that address five of these disease Elanco is working to: highlighting the research that proves the control, prevent, and treat disease in challenges in a fundamentally new way. importance of the human-animal bond. food-producing animals. Elanco believes • Partner with grocery stores and We will increase the awareness of these With partnerships like Pet Partners and that it is our industry’s responsibility to producers to provide protein-rich eggs unmet disease challenges and work to Canine Assistants, we support the anikeep animals healthy, treat the ones that to local food banks through the HATCH inspire and incentivize new innovation mals that support us—from assistance get sick, and safeguard antibiotics for for Hunger program, as fresh protein from many sources, including internal and therapy animals to search, rescue, future generations through responsible is one of the most challenging items development, external partnerships, and and police dogs. use—creating healthy food, ensuring for food banks to secure. To date, open-source innovation. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 34 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Employee Safety 11% 12% TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE When it comes to safety, Lilly focuses on 1.44 0.90 0.88 0.92 0.70 creating a company-wide culture where 18% best-in-class practices are intuitively and Total Recordable 2007 2014 2015 2016 2020 Goal consistently followed. To do this, we assess and continuously strive to improve Injuries by Accident our safety culture across our manufacCategory 2016 turing, research and development, and 12% sales and marketing organizations. 47% LOST-TIME INJURY RATE We believe this ongoing commitment promotes the well-being of our people and helps to safeguard communities 0.60 where we operate. 0.36 0.27 0.31 0.25 Struck by / Against / Caught between 19 Ergonomic Risk 20 Motor Vehicle Collisions Since we introduced our global safety Slip / Trip / Fall Other 2007 2014 2015 2016 2020 Goal goals in 2007, our injury rate has declined by nearly 40 percent, equivalent 8% to the prevention of hundreds of injuries 18% to Lilly employees across the globe. In MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE18 2013, we established new interim goals for the three occupational safety metrics we track: recordable injuries, lost-time Lost-Time Injuries 25% injuries, and motor vehicle collision 36% by Accident 19% 18% 16% 16% 12% rate. These goals were developed to Category 2016 2007 2014 2015 2016 2020 Goal help reduce our injury rates across a seven-year period: 2014–2020. While we A new goal for measuring motor vehicle collisions 18  was established in 2015. did experience slight increases in our 2016 rates, as compared to 2015, our 19% long-term trajectory shows a strong trend toward decreased injuries. We will continue to assess the data and make improvements where possible to achieve 19 Refers to non-motor vehicle injuries resulting in abrasion, contusion, and laceration. Refers to ergonomic risks (posture and/or force, repetition, duration of tasks) which 20  our goals. increase the likelihood of a sprain or strain. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 35 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Promoting a Culture for employees in manufacturing areas, laboratories, offices, and • Updating the global manufacturing scorecards for both Lilly and Elanco are often out of their control. In 2009, we launched a motor vehicle safety program, of Safety at Lilly sales vehicles; and • Expanding our internal BSafe safety to measure monthly SIF events and potential SIF events; and HSEDirections, designed specifically for the thousands of Lilly employees who We promote a culture of health and observation program to four of our • Completing shop-floor assessments of are on the road every day, visiting safety by including our employees in the new Elanco animal health manufacthe equipment lockout program, which physicians, hospitals, clinics, and other process of improving our performance. turing locations and to our Mexico City encourages safe use of tools, for all customers. Our HSEDirections investWe educate employees in identifying and sales affiliate. Lilly and Elanco manufacturing sites. ment has resulted in a decrease in motor speaking up about unsafe behaviors and In addition, Lilly has made a concerted vehicle collisions, and, consequently, a conditions, from acute hazards in need of immediate intervention, to those with Reducing the Potential effort to improve process safety management (PSM) for high-risk chemical significant reduction in motor vehiclerelated injuries. In 2016, we saw further potential to cause chronic health issues, such as poor ergonomics. for Serious Injury manufacturing and development operations, according to a plan created in 2013. progress. As part of this effort, we: • Continued to improve our motor vehiWhile the most common work-related In 2016, we built upon this progress by: cle collision rate year-on-year, with a In 2016, Lilly continued to instill in our injuries are covered by our safety • Completing technical improvements to 40 percent decrease in collision rate employees a culture of safety by: programs, we have also committed to the safe operating limits for sites with since the program began in 2009; • Developing a strategic HSE transforsystematically addressing rare but high-risk operations; • Implemented best-in-class motorcycle mation map for safety culture potentially catastrophic events, where • Creating global PSM requirements for safety requirements; improvement; the consequences can be tragic. To the testing of high-risk safety devices • Simplified and improved global injury • Completing safety perception surveys prevent such serious injuries and that ensure mechanical integrity and reporting through a new iPad app; and for all newly-acquired Elanco animal fatalities (SIF), we have established operational consistency; and • Trained field operations food animal health manufacturing and research programs that aim to eliminate high-risk • Modifying Lilly’s PSM audit and employees in our AgriDirections and development locations, as well as hazards and behaviors. self-assessment program to focus on program. at our Erl Wood research and development center in the United Kingdom, Our efforts on SIF prevention since 2012 high-priority process safety elements. and our Pharmaceutical Technical have been successful. We ask employEmployee Sales and 3 GWELL-BEING OOD HEALTH AND Services and Sciences organization; ees to report “near misses”—events that • Creating and delivering a safety leadcould have, but did not, result in an injury. Wellness at Lilly ership training course in partnership We use this data to take steps, even in the absence of a SIF event, to improve Marketing Safety The mission of the wellness and producwith DuPont at all newly-acquired our performance in this area. In 2016, At Lilly, sales and marketing employees tivity team mirrors the Lilly Promise— Elanco animal health vaccine manuwe bolstered our SIF efforts by: represent nearly 30 percent of our uniting caring with discovery to make life facturing locations; • Hosting a SIF prevention conference global workforce. Their jobs require better, including for our own employees • Conducting more than 2,000 industrial and their families. Lilly is committed with 14 peer pharmaceutical them to spend significant time driving, and personal ergonomic assessments to creating a work environment that companies; subjecting them to accident risks which LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 36 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption supports employee efforts to manage At our Indianapolis headquarters, an tools and financial advisory programs. Using videos and self-evaluation tools both work and personal life responsibilon-site medical clinic allows employees Many of the benefit offerings also are to examine fitness and stress levels, ities. We have a broad view of wellness to have annual preventative screenings available to spouses, domestic partners, the three-week program supports the at Lilly, designed to create a culture of and routine lab work. We also have and qualified dependents to promote development of healthier habits. well-being across five dimensions: physseveral on-site fitness centers for indiwell-being for the entire family, not just • Our manufacturing site in Kinsale, ical, financial, social, community, and vidual and group exercise activities. We the person directly employed by Lilly. Ireland, launched the Live4Life sense of purpose. The wellness and propartner with our food service vendors to program, which also takes a holistic ductivity teams, both in the United States provide a wide range of healthier dining approach to supporting behaviors that and in our international locations, have choices and snacks—some of which are Wellness in Our are important to living a healthy and direct responsibility for our wellness subsidized. We provide showers and bike International Sites fulfilling life. Based on an employee strategy, work-life balance programs, racks for more than 150 Indianapolis survey of key wellness needs and Outside the United States, we deliver employee activities around healthy living, employees who commute to work by interests, the Live4Life program offers competitive benefit packages and health as well as medical and disability leaves. bicycle. We have also made all U.S. sites quarterly topics throughout the year, coverage that varies depending on locasmoke-free. featuring speakers, displays, information. In many countries, our employees receive government-provided medical tion sessions, and fun activities to Other U.S. efforts to support our employWellness in the United States ees’ physical and emotional health benefits. Wellness programs at two of promote employee well-being. In the United States, our Fit for Life include access to a dietitian, quarterly our international locations, Spain and benefit program offers a set of tools and fitness challenges, and a comprehensive Ireland, are highlighted below. resources to help employees better employee-assistance program, including • Our Alcobendas manufacturing site, manage their health, as well as identify consultations with on-site psychologists. near Madrid, Spain, launched a hothose things that can contribute to a New mothers may receive support listic, integrated program to promote healthier and more active life. Lilly also through robust maternity leave prohealthier, active lifestyles among offers health plan coverage to employees grams, on-site childcare centers and employees. The first initiative of the and their eligible dependents, and our back-up care options, nursing rooms, program discussed cardiovascular coverage for preventive health services go and parenting education opportunities. health, using a program developed by well beyond the requirements established We also promote financial well-being the Diabetes Alliance in cooperation under federal healthcare reform. through a variety of online financial with Boehringer Ingelheim and Lilly. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 37 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption For more than 140 years, Lilly people Conduct, our compliance management in place to detect potential violations Code of Conduct, Policies, have approached our company’s business systems, and our training programs—all of the law and company policies and and Procedures with a deep sense of responsibility to all of which reinforce ethical behavior and to correct processes so that errors do Our ethics and compliance program our stakeholders. Our actions, then as help avoid corruption and other unacnot occur going forward. Our ethics and includes policies and procedures. now, are grounded in our core company ceptable activities. This section also compliance program includes deliberate We communicate our key compliancevalues of integrity, excellence, and rehighlights our efforts to be more transassessment of risks, training, and comrelated expectations through the spect for people. Recognizing our efforts parent about our operations, including munications designed to prevent issues following vehicles: to operate responsibly—including our our clinical trials, our educational grants, from arising, as well as reporting, au• The Red Book: We regularly update strong ethics and compliance program, and payments we make to physicians. diting, and monitoring to detect potenand disseminate our Code of Business the Ethisphere Institute in 2017 named tial compliance gaps. We also have a Conduct, The Red Book. Available in Lilly one of the World’s Most robust investigation process and develop Ethical Companies. Ethics, Compliance, and corrective and preventive action plans to 24 languages, this document and associated training emphasize the Governance at Lilly address issues that are identified. company’s values and the importance We train all of our employees in ethical of ethical decision-making, summarize business practices and have systems in At Lilly, our policies, our Code of Business key principles from global company place to detect violations of law, regulation, and company policy, including those Conduct (which we call The Red Book), Ethics and Compliance policies, and provide examples for related to anti-corruption. We have our compliance management systems, Program Oversight employees to practice applying these our training programs, and our commuThe ethics and compliance organization principles to their decisions and developed—and we continue to refine and nications all reinforce ethical behavior. We is headed by the senior vice president actions. The Red Book is designed to improve—an anti-corruption program have implemented programs designed of enterprise risk management, who is provide foundational guiding principles designed to promote ethical conduct and to promote ethical conduct and foster a also Lilly’s chief ethics and compliance to help our employees navigate an instill a culture of compliance. culture of integrity, which we continue to officer. This position reports to the CEO increasingly complex global business In this section, we discuss our commitrefine and improve. and has direct access to the board of environment. ment to work against corruption in all its directors’ Public Policy and Compliance forms. We detail our Code of Business We train all of our employees in ethical Committee. business practices and have systems LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 38 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • Policies, Procedures, and Related Reporting, Monitoring, policies, or official orders or decrees compliance with various company Materials: The information summarized and Auditing applicable to our business. Employees policies and procedures. These audits in The Red Book is amplified by To detect possible compliance violaare also encouraged to report any other include reviews of our anti-corruption policies and other materials accessible tions, we maintain an internal disclosure ethical concerns or issues. Our toll-free program and our policies that govern to employees on the company’s system that includes a mechanism for Ethics and Compliance Hotline is staffed ethical interactions. intranet. These documents govern anonymous reporting. We also review by an independent firm, 24 hours a day, Lilly’s actions with respect to specific business actions through a system of seven days a week. Due to differences Training and Communications areas, including our ethical foundation, monitoring and audits. in local law, local reporting processes All employees play a role in the success preventing corruption, respecting • Internal Reporting: Lilly employees can vary. of our ethics and compliance program. privacy, communicating honestly, are required to report to the company • Monitoring: Lilly maintains an ethics Therefore, we view training and communispeaking up, protecting information any known or suspected violations and compliance monitoring program cations as a necessary part of promoting assets, and many other topics. of the law, The Red Book, company that has been standardized to include ethical behavior throughout our business a global monitoring strategy, a risk practices. The company’s commitment assessment and monitoring plan with to training and communications is visible standard tools, and a process for through many of our activities, including LILLY HONORED FOR INTEGRITY AND TRANSPARENCY WORK reporting metrics to business leaders the following: and key company stakeholders. Its • Each year, all Lilly employees (and purpose is to evaluate whether the certain company contractors) must Lilly’s ethics and compliance program was honored at the 2016 Corporate Governance Awards in following have occurred: complete training on The Red Book New York City. The awards are a global program of the organization that publishes IR Magazine Ethics and compliance policies and and certify that they have received, and Corporate Secretary, read by executives around the world. procedures have been implemented read, understand, and will abide by its and followed; requirements. Lilly was one of three finalists for having the best compliance and ethics program in the “large Employees have been trained on • Employees receive targeted ethics and cap” category—large publicly traded companies. The recognition highlighted work to simplify these policies and procedures; and compliance training related to their our policies and procedures, to streamline our Code of Business Conduct, The Red Book, and to Management is providing sufficient specific job responsibilities. encourage employees to speak up and voice concerns so we can all learn from our experiences. oversight of business processes and • New employees in the ethics and comrelated results to support complipliance organization participate in a “We have made great progress simplifying our policies and procedures and raising awareness of ance with company policies, training and education curriculum that the resources employees can use to make the right decisions for the right reasons. I’m proud procedures, and government laws focuses on understanding and implethat our organization was recognized.” and regulations. menting the elements of an effective — Melissa Barnes, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Risk Management and Chief Ethics compliance program globally. • Corporate Auditing: Our internal and Compliance Officer corporate auditing function conducts • Our leaders communicate regularly both financial and nonfinancial audits with employees to reinforce that of all Lilly affiliates globally to evaluate everyone is responsible for conducting LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 39 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption company business in an ethical and an unfair advantage. Our commitment to build trust with patients, caregivers, interactions their own medical profescompliant manner, as well as making to operating with high ethical standards and other key stakeholders. In addition sionals have with Lilly. decisions and taking actions in line extends to all business relationships, to disclosing payments Lilly makes to In the United States, Lilly follows disclowith the company’s values of integrity, dealings, and activities all over the world. HCPs and HCOs, we engage in dialogue sure requirements at both the state and excellence, and respect for people. directly with members of the healthcare Lilly uses anti-corruption due diligence federal levels. Lilly adheres to the system and other interested parties processes to assess the appropriaterequirements set forth by the federal Investigations and about transparency questions through ness of interactions with certain external law known as the Physician Payment Corrective Actions our EthicsPoint hotline (1-877-237-8197) parties, including the following: Sunshine Act (also called “Open PayWe take all reports of known or suspected or the Lilly EthicsPoint website. • External parties whom Lilly may ments”), which is part of the broader violations of company policies and U.S. Affordable Care Act. It requires the authorize to interact with government procedures seriously, and we appropriately investigate all claims of potential officials on the company’s behalf; Payments to Physicians biopharmaceutical and medical device manufacturing industry to report certain • Prospective recipients of grants and wrongdoing that are brought to our attention. We seek to address inapprodonations; and and Healthcare financial interactions to a defined group of “Physicians” and “Teaching Hospitals.” priate conduct as early as possible and to prevent future recurrences. To • Prospective business development partners. Organizations Interactions include items such as payments for services provided for accomplish this, an investigation Lilly also uses an institutional notification Lilly collaborates with both HCPs and research, or food and beverage provided process is in place globally to conduct process to mitigate risk relating to HCOs, focusing on a single goal: improvduring an educational program. Lilly timely, thorough, and professional healthcare providers whom Lilly pays ing the health and quality of patients’ reports these financial interactions to investigations. All investigators are for services, including clinical trial lives. Being transparent about the the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid trained to understand and follow this research, or to whom Lilly provides other nature and extent of our relationships Services (CMS). On an annual basis, process and to meet local procedural items of value, such as educational makes it possible to build trust about CMS makes all reported industry and privacy requirements. opportunities. how we work to benefit patients. financial interactions public in a searchWe believe HCPs should be compensated able Open Payments Database. On the site, you can view if a physician or a Transparency and Anti-Corruption Due Diligence at a fair market rate for their time and expertise whether they are scientists particular teaching hospital has had We earn and maintain the trust of those financial interactions with a biopharmaDisclosure at Lilly we serve by acting with integrity, in helping to research a potential new treatment, HCPs advising us on medical ceutical company, including Lilly. accordance with our mission and values, everywhere we operate. We recognize and scientific matters, or physicians Outside the United States, in addition to that bribery, fraud, and other acts of conducting an educational program for adhering to legislated requirements for Lilly is supportive of transparency dishonesty are a betrayal of that trust, Lilly with their peers. By disclosing our countries in which we operate, Lilly initiatives globally. We believe openly so we do not offer, provide, authorize, financial relationships with both HCPs participates in voluntary disclosure reporting financial interactions with or accept anything of value—or give the and HCOs, patients, caregivers, and codes led by local trade associations. healthcare professionals (HCPs) and appearance that we do—in order to inapother key stakeholders can better see One such example is the European healthcare organizations (HCOs) helps propriately influence a decision or gain and understand the collaborations and Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 40 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption and Associations (EFPIA), which has will be translated into the local language(s) our written Code of Business Conduct, FINANCIAL SUPPORT AND established the EFPIA HCP/HCO where the studies took place and made The Red Book. Our annual report of LOBBYING ACTIVITY Disclosure Code as well as the EFPIA available for the research sites and Political Financial Support provides Patient Organization Code. Lilly views study participants. details of our company’s U.S. political our commitment to transparency and Lilly makes patient-level data available contributions; our memberships in In 2016, Lilly spent the disclosure as an opportunity to ensure that patients, HCPs, HCOs, and business from Lilly-sponsored studies on marketed organizations that report lobbying activity to the U.S. government, and to which we following amounts on drugs for approved uses following partners feel confident when engaging with Lilly. The EFPIA website has acceptance for publication. Lilly is one of contribute $50,000 a year or more; and the activities of our Political Action direct political activity: several companies that provide this additional information on the HCP/HCO Committee, the LillyPAC, which is funded and Patient Organization Codes. You can also view more on Lilly’s commitment to access through the website clinicalstudydatarequest.com. Qualified researchers can submit research proposals and solely by U.S. employee contributions. In the United States, we are committed $1,683,000 transparency in Europe, or view our in political financial support in the request anonymized data to test new to backing candidates of any party who EFPIA Patient Organization Disclosure. United States hypotheses. support public policies that contribute to pharmaceutical innovation and the Clinical Trials Data health needs of patients. When reviewTransparency Political Engagement ing U.S. candidates for support, we consider a number of factors, including these examples: Lilly has a history of commitment to • Has the candidate historically voted When engaging in lobbying efforts or transparency of our clinical studies, and we recognize that responsible sharing making political contributions, we comor announced positions on issues $360,000 to state candidates in ply with the laws that govern such activof importance to Lilly, such as pharcorporate contributions; and of clinical study data has the ability to maceutical innovation and health care? ities. All financial support and lobbying enhance public health. Currently, Lilly registers and posts results of all clinical activities are overseen at the board level • Has the candidate demonstrated $1,323,000 through the Lilly Political by the Public Policy and Compliance leadership on key committees of Action Committee (LillyPAC). trials on clinicaltrials.gov. Since the Committee, which is composed entirely importance to our business? start of 2014, Lilly has enhanced our of outside directors. All decisions are • Does the candidate demonstrate $6,860,000 transparency initiatives in alignment made without regard for the private, potential for legislative leadership? with the PhRMA/EFPIA Principles for personal preferences of the company’s Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing. • Is the candidate dedicated to improving officers and executives. on federal lobbying activities Next, Lilly will begin creating summaries the relationship between business and of Phase II and III clinical trial results All of our employees must also comply government? in the United States written in patient-friendly language using with our global policies, core values, and This information is reported to the U.S. simple, everyday terms. The summaries legal obligations, which are outlined in Congress in accordance with the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 41
