UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 Who we are Turner & Townsend is an independent professional services company specialising in programme management, project management, cost and commercial management and advisory across the real estate, infrastructure and natural resources sectors. See more information on our approach, case studies and performance on our website turnerandtownsend.com/csr-report Chairman and CEO’s statement Committed to doing business in the right way Vincent Clancy, Chairman and CEO, Turner & Townsend We are committed to doing business in the right way to deliver better outcomes for our people, clients and communities. This is more than doing the right thing; we recognise the opportunity we have to make a great impact on the world we live in and contribute to a more prosperous society. In 2017, we joined the United Nations Global Compact and I am proud to reaffirm our commitment to the Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. Our first annual Communication on Progress describes our actions and how we are embedding these key principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals have immense power to shape the world for the better as we tackle the great international challenges of today. We will continue to align our approach to the UN Sustainable Development Goals to play our part in helping to end “We recognise the opportunity we poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all. have to make a great impact on the In 2016–17, we increased senior sponsorship of corporate responsibility in every region, developed impactful world we live in and contribute to community partnerships and empowered our people to take social action. In the coming year, we will strengthen a more prosperous society.” our community and sustainability partnerships in line with our ambitious agenda to embed social responsibility into everything we do. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 1 Our commitment to corporate responsibility Turner & Townsend’s UN Sustainable UN Global CSR pillars Development Goals Compact principles 1 Great place to work Human rights ▪▪Empower our people to realise their potential. ▪▪Principle 1 – businesses should support and respect the protection ▪▪Promote a diverse and inclusive workplace. of internationally proclaimed human rights; and ▪▪Support our ▪▪Principle 2 – make sure that they are not complicit in human people’s wellbeing. rights abuses. Labour rights 2 Community value ▪▪Principle 3 – businesses should ▪▪Deliver projects and programmes that build uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of a prosperous society. the right to collective bargaining; ▪▪Create opportunities for ▪▪ofPrinciple 4 – the elimination all forms of forced and children and young people to achieve their potential. compulsory labour; ▪▪Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; and ▪▪ofPrinciple 6 – the elimination discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3 Environmental Environment stewardship ▪▪Principle 7 – businesses should ▪▪Improve our environmental impact and promote support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; climate action. ▪▪Principle 8 – undertake initiatives ▪▪Support our clients to enable more to promote greater environmental responsibility; and sustainable communities. ▪▪Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 4 Integrity in industry Anti-corruption ▪▪Maintain a strong ethical culture. ▪▪Principle 10 – businesses should work against corruption in all ▪▪Advance our industry to contribute to a more its forms, including extortion and bribery. prosperous society. 2 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 2016–2017 corporate responsibility highlights 1 Great place to work 3 Environmental stewardship 4,674 people 81 nationalities 99% of our people completed 33 offices certified to ISO 14001 career development plans Environmental Management System We are committed to listening to and acting on, our people’s feedback: We are promoting sustainability in our communities: 81% “I like learning how of our people said: to design sustainable buildings” 89% employee engagement “I’m proud to work for Turner 78 employee engagement student from our Design Engineer survey response rate & Townsend” champions and action plans in every region Construct sponsored school 2 Community value 4 Integrity in industry We are creating opportunities for children and young people: 8.1/10 average client care score 6,230 £342k 55 community corporate and employee volunteer hours charitable donations Removing barriers Raising aspirations Improving employability industry leadership to education positions 746 8 70 David Whysall grants to help disadvantaged new schools students supported with Co-Chair Constructing Excellence youth with school essentials partnerships JINC employability Bruce McAra workshops Global RICS Board Member UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 3 Progress on the Global Compact principles Human rights Labour rights We only employ people who meet legal minimum age requirements and meet other child labour laws. and labour Turner & Townsend prohibits the use of all forms rights of involuntary or forced labour of any kind. We are committed to ensuring our business and supply chains are free of any practices of modern slavery and human trafficking. We published our Modern Slavery Act statement online in 2016. Human rights Turner & Townsend respects the protection of human We compensate our people competitively and fairly rights and works against any complicity in human relative to our industry and local labour markets and rights abuses. follow applicable laws with respect to salary, benefits and work hours. We are committed to the highest standard of ethics. We have built a culture where strong ethics are We recognise that all our people have the right embedded in the way we work. The leaders of our to freedom of association subject to local laws business set the tone and we expect our people to follow and regulations. our policies and guidelines; including ethics, dignity at work and equal opportunities policies. Links to policies and further information Annual review: Integrity in industry To improve our social and environmental performance Annual review: Great place to work through our supply chain, we issue a questionnaire as Modern Slavery Act statement part of our selection process. This covers management systems, policies and performance relating to equal opportunities, diversity, anti-bribery, the environment, Diversity and inclusion and health and safety. We are committed to an inclusive and motivating workplace where all our people can deliver their best. In the year ahead, we will engage all our people on A wider set of experiences and perspectives will increase our unique style of working through a communications our ability to meet our global clients’ needs; so we are programme, which will emphasise integrity and delivering increasing diversity throughout our business by outcomes that benefit our people, clients and society. embedding this into mindsets as well as processes. Links to policies and further information Our regional diversity roadmaps are informed by a global  Annual review: Integrity in industry set of principles that address inclusive leadership and Ethics policy and code of conduct progression, recruiting for diversity and creating an environment where all our people can succeed. These are supported by training and awareness campaigns. In North America, for example, we rolled out our mandatory diversity and inclusion e-learning module and achieved 99 percent completion. We also raised diversity awareness globally by marking key events, such as International Women’s Day to address the challenges around gender equality. We are setting strong targets to improve the diversity of our workforce and our next step is a review of our recruitment standards and management development programmes to embed inclusive leadership. Links to policies and further information Case study: Creating life-changing career opportunities Case study: Inspiring the next generation 4 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 Wellbeing performance review and development plans; and we Stress and mental health are increasingly recognised will continue to promote greater engagement on career as issues that employers need to address more opportunities in the coming year. comprehensively, for the wellbeing of employees and to manage the consequences for business, Our open culture allows people to challenge the business such as absenteeism and sick leave. We want to to be the best it can be and we empower our people to support all our people by promoting an inclusive affect change. We have further strengthened our Your and nurturing environment. Professional Future network and our Chairman’s Group, which bring people together to debate business and This year, we raised awareness on mental health issues industry challenges and find disruptive solutions that with an internal campaign that shared our people’s enable us to raise our performance and strengthen our stories. The campaign encouraged conversations, service to clients. addressed any potential stigma and communicated that help is available through employee assistance Links to policies and further information programmes and other channels. The next stage of this Case study: Creating innovations through initiative is a holistic wellbeing programme, which will diverse perspectives be rolled out in the second half of 2017. Case study: Growing our future leaders Making sure our people are safe at work and take Global careers responsibility to protect themselves and others is a top priority. We introduced training modules on safe driving and risk assessment this year. Our engagement strategy Engagement on risk has created a significant cultural shift with more Obtaining feedback from our people on their experience colleagues recognising the importance of risk assessment in the workplace is essential to support our position as in everyday situations. employer of choice. 89 percent of employees participated in our 2016 employee engagement survey, an increase Links to policies and further information from 84 percent in 2015. This is a very high response rate compared to benchmarks, and reflects the importance Case study: Celebrating health and we place on seeking and acting on feedback. safety leadership Health and safety policy We are focused on improving our overall 2016 engagement score of 3.8 out of 5. Our regional people committees and network of 78 engagement champions Development are leading forums and action plans on the key topics that Our people have outstanding opportunities to develop matter to our people. their careers, moving around our global business and working on iconic and ground-breaking programmes. Links to policies and further information Annual review: Great place to work Offering unrivalled career development opportunities and regular discussion on personal goals is a key priority for us. This year 99 percent of people completed their UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 5 Progress on the Global Compact principles continued Environment Buildings are responsible for around 40 percent of carbon emissions. To protect the planet for future generations and support the UN Sustainable Development Goals, we are determined to help our clients reduce their emissions and deliver more sustainable outcomes. Improving our own environmental impact Good environmental management is built into our operations and we now have 33 offices certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard. Our global priority is reducing emissions from offices and business travel. This year we extended the use of Skype for Business and chain and working practices capable of meeting stringent actively promoted video conferencing to reduce business sustainability targets. We are also supporting Masdar travel. In Australia, we implemented a sustainability City’s vision to become a template, or ‘green-print’, action plan in conjunction with CitySwitch and a team of for sustainable urban development, using our global postgraduate students from Curtin University, to improve experience and knowledge of the Abu Dhabi construction environmental performance and influence the next market to deliver sustainability goals throughout the generation of building professionals. project life cycle. We continued to relocate teams to more efficient offices As the programme delivery unit for RE:FIT, we are helping globally, introduced follow-me printing and reviewed to increase the energy efficiency of London’s public opportunities for paperless functions. To encourage our buildings. We support schools, hospitals and other public people to take positive action, we promoted high-profile organisations to overcome the hurdles involved in energy events such as Earth Hour and World Green Building retrofit projects. The programme was awarded the Week, and delivered a series of knowledge shares. Ashden Award in 2016 for innovation and excellence in sustainable energy. Links to policies and further information Case study: Collaborating on our green action plan Links to policies and further information Case study: Launching a new champions network Case study: Designing for sustainability at Queen’s Environmental policy Influencing industry Our people continued to shape best practice this year, Enabling more sustainable outcomes working collaboratively with clients, suppliers and By engaging with our clients, we have a greater industry bodies to find effective solutions to sustainability opportunity to improve the environmental impact of challenges in asset development, delivery and operation. construction. Together we can achieve more sustainable outcomes by improving energy efficiency and resource In Hong Kong, Director Sam Cheng has played a use throughout the whole life cycle of assets. leading role in the Hong Kong Green Building Council. By chairing committees and coordinating the exchange We are providing design and commercial management of the latest environmental thinking between green services on the next phase of the Heathrow expansion building councils, Sam is promoting a more sustainable project. The work we do now will establish the supply construction industry. 6 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 Anti-corruption To help our people understand their role in managing bribery and corruption risks, we ask everyone to undertake a training course when they join the company and a refresher e-learning module every two years. During the year, we have investigated all bribery and corruption concerns raised, in accordance with our policies. A key part of the investigation is capturing improvements to our process and policies. We have introduced additional training in anti-bribery and We operate a strict no tolerance policy corruption in higher-risk locations based both on lessons towards bribery in all its forms, whether learnt and from our operational risk assessments. directly or through third parties, and expect Another example of our evolving process is the introduction of additional assurance checks when our clients and business partners to operate appointing contractors. in the same way. Later in 2017, we will launch an external ABC hotline, sitting alongside our existing internal system, to enable Our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) policy and our people to raise any concerns independently. We will associated guidelines outline our approach, risk mitigation continue to monitor the effectiveness of our investigation and responsibilities. All our people across the global and reporting processes and raise greater awareness business are required to confirm they understand this internally over the coming year. policy and complete an annual declaration. Links to policies and further information Annual review: Integrity in industry Anti-bribery and corruption policy Ethics policy and code of conduct UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 7 Sustainable Development Goals Gender equality and decent work We are committed to an inclusive and inspiring workplace where all our people can deliver their best. Our aim is to reflect the diverse make-up of the communities in which we work and improve gender diversity throughout the global business. Beyond this, we are working with our local communities to promote gender equality and increase opportunities for young people to achieve their potential. This includes programmes to engage with children and young people in the world of work and STEM (science, technology, engineering and maths) skills. Partnerships for the goals and innovation, industry and infrastructure We bring teams together to achieve more. We are increasingly developing strategic partnerships and collaborative initiatives to tackle some of the biggest challenges our industry faces. Large-scale infrastructure programmes are a positive lever for economic growth and have potential to create great benefits for society. We are setting up and delivering some of the world’s most complex major infrastructure programmes and we are sharing our global best practice to secure higher levels of performance in these programmes by driving productivity, predictability and transparency. Sustainable cities and communities, responsible The UN Sustainable Development Goals consumption and climate action provide an ambitious framework to achieve We are committed to improve our own impact and engage with our clients to improve the environmental impact of a fairer, more prosperous and sustainable construction. Together we can achieve more sustainable future for all. outcomes by improving energy efficiency and resource use throughout the whole life cycle of assets. We recognise that we can and must play a As the programme delivery unit for RE:FIT, we are helping part in achieving these 17 global goals. As an to increase the energy efficiency of London’s public buildings; and in 2016 the programme was recognised initial step, we have identified the goals where with the Ashden Award for innovation and excellence we can have the greatest impact. in sustainable energy. No poverty and quality education We are determined to create opportunities for children and young people by breaking down barriers to education, raising aspirations and developing employability skills. We are targeting our community programmes so that we reach disadvantaged groups and tackle low social mobility. This year, we developed strategic community partnerships with charities, schools and public bodies to support this objective. In partnership with Action for Children, we developed an education fund in the UK and we expanded our partnership with JINC in the Netherlands to help young people improve their employability skills. 8 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016–2017 We welcome your feedback Please contact us on csr@turntown.com l inkedin.com/company/turner-&-townsend @turnertownsend © Turner & Townsend. All rights reserved July 2017. This content is for general information purposes only and does not purport to constitute professional advice. We do not make any representation or give any warranty and shall not be liable for any losses or damages whatsoever, arising from reliance on information contained in this document.
