SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 210 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 211 INVESTING RESPONSIBLY 212 MANAGING ALBA WITH SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 214 ALBA’S MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER 218 ALBA’S PORTFOLIO FROM THE VIEWPOINT OF SUSTAINABILITY 228 ALBA’S HUMAN TEAM 231 ALBA’S IMPACT ON SOCIETY 233 ALBA’S ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 234 DEGREE OF PROGRESS OF THE CSR PLAN 236 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI 209 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1. Letter from the chairman1 governance. In this document we explain how we have fulfilled them and on which we must Corporación Financiera Alba has a longcontinue working in 2017. term vision for the management of its investment portfolio and the creation of Also worth noting is the fulfilment of all the value for its main stakeholders, two basic recommendations for good governance of pillars in the sphere of social responsibility. listed companies set out in the CNMV code These two values are inherently integrated and the international recognition we received in our corporate culture, evident throughout in the Global Banking and Finance Awards this sustainability report, which shows, for as the Company with the Best Corporate the second consecutive year, Alba’s firm Governance of the Year 2016, awarded by commitment to sustainable economic, social the British publication The European. and environmental development. We are convinced that society and the 2016 was an important year for us, not only markets positively and increasingly value because of our good financial results, but companies’ commitment to sustainability also because they were the result of the solid and their contribution to social progress and responsible management that has always and welfare. To this end, we strive to characterised us and which was formalised actively participate in all our investee in 2015 through the publication of our companies, in order to increase the degree Social Responsibility Policy and the review of implementation of social responsibility of our Investment Policy. The attachment and therein and the manner in which they manage subsequent reporting to the United Nations business risks and opportunities. As part of Global Compact has allowed us to connect our responsibility, we are going to continue to the international agenda and has helped us working proactively to improve that situation to integrate its ten human rights, labour rights, and share it with our stakeholders. environmental and anti-corruption principles in a more reflexive manner. During this period, we have made firm strides in the sphere of social responsibility, addressing the purposes we set for ourselves in our first sustainability report under its three basic pillars: environmental, social and good 1. G4-1 and G4-2 210 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2. Investing responsibly 1. Need for in-depth knowledge of its investments. As a result of its participation in a portfolio Corporación Financiera Alba, S.A . (Alba) is with limited number of securities, Alba the investment company of the Banca March performs a rigorous analysis of the company Group, one of the leading Spanish private or asset, of the sectors and markets in which family-owned business and financial groups. it is present, and of the macroeconomic Since its creation in 1986, it has engaged in context that could affect the value of the investment in different types of assets and in organisation. The objective of this process the management of its investment portfolio with is to identify and try to mitigate the potential a long-term vision. Ensuring utmost diligence present or future risks that could impede the and integrity throughout the investment process achievement of said objective. is one of its main responsibilities, envisaged in its Investment Policy, selection of assets and 2. Active participation in its investees involvement in the management of its investees. or assets in which it invests. This diligent involvement (representation Alba’s investment policy, approved in June in the Board of Directors -companies2015, addresses three main aspects: (i) the or direct management of assets -i.e. objective of the investment activity, (ii) the property-) requires holding a sufficiently general principles that govern the actions large ownership interest, not delegating aimed at achieving the objective set and (iii) management to third parties and monitoring the specific criteria governing the selection of investments. This requires a high level of potential investments within the different types dedication that is translated into a relatively of assets (listed companies, unlisted companies limited number of portfolio investments. and property) on which Alba currently focalises its investment. 3. Credibility and reputation as assets. Alba considers that its credibility and reputation Following is a detail of the principles of the in the market are two of its main assets that investment policy that help to understand the decisively contribute to the achievement of its approach of the Company’s long-term vision long-term objectives. The two variables are not and value creation approach: based exclusively on the obtainment of gains, but also, how to avoid potential conflicts of interest between investments or their adhesion to the maximum principles in terms of regulatory 2. G4-3 and G4-7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 211 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT compliance, corporate governance, staff, 3. Managing Alba environmental impact and relationship with society in general. with social responsibility The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, 4. Prudence and risk control. approved in October 2015, establishes the Alba’s investments may experience fluctuations CSR principles and guidelines with the aim in its market value, which requires that, in of orienting the Company’s activities towards order to meet its long-term value creation a sustainable business management model objective, these are undertaken with a high aimed at the different stakeholders. Through this level of prudence, endeavouring to mitigate policy, Alba undertakes to develop its activities the possible risks that may affect its activity in a responsible manner at all times, maximise through, inter alia, adequate portfolio sustainable and shared value creation for its diversification, low levels of corporate debt or shareholders, other stakeholders and for society maintaining a high proportion of its portfolio in as a whole, and to identify, prevent and remedy liquid assets. the possible negative impacts of its activities. 5. Flexibility, both in the internal decisionThis policy is solidly aligned with the ten making process and in the application of the principles of the United Nations Global investment principles and criteria for specific Compact, of which Corporación Financiera investment opportunities. Alba became a signatory one year ago and through which it fulfils its annual commitment, Responsible management, based on these reporting, through a progress report principles, contributes to the creation of more -materialised in this report-, its progress in transparent and better governed markets, sustainability and CSR. connecting financial markets to the real economy and creating opportunities and economic prosperity for society, both in Spain and in other countries where Alba’s investees are present. 3. G4-15 212 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FIGURE 1. THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Human 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Rights 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3.  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4.   Bussinesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Labour forced and compulsory labour. 5. Bussinesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Bussinesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environment 9.  Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Responsible business management is performed In 2012, Alba implemented a Crime Prevention through different policies that grant greater Model which was updated in 2015 and, credibility and confidence to its activity. Alba in 2016, approved a new Internal Code of has, inter alia, a Criminal and Fraud Prevention Conduct in the Sphere of the Securities Market Policy, a Director Candidate Selection Policy, (RIC), a training plan, a continuous evaluation of a Risk Management Policy, a Corporate Social the effectiveness of the controls and an update Responsibility Policy and a Communication of the risks to which it is exposed. Policy. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 213 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2015, the Spanish National Securities 3.1. Alba’s materiality and stakeholders5 Market Commission (CNMV) published a Code of Good Governance for Listed This second sustainability report of Corporación Companies, which includes specific Financiera Alba is inspired in the Global recommendations on corporate social Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology -the best responsibility (CSR) -specifically CSR strategy, known and most widely used internationallypolicy, objectives and initiatives-, and the in its G4 edition and essential format6. In monitoring and evaluation thereof by the Board 2016 more than 4,300 sustainability reports of Directors committees. Although compliance corresponding to the five continents were with this code is voluntary, Alba, aware of the uploaded to the GRI portal, of which 40% were importance of the good governance of the presented in Europe and 2.4% in Spain. organisations, works continuously to fulfil all its recommendations -except the seven that do One of the keys of this methodology is the not apply-. The 2015 Annual Report indicated performance of a materiality analysis in which the partial fulfilment of recommendation 5 and the most relevant topics in terms of sustainability recommendation 14, aspects that were resolved for the organisation are determined, in order in 2016, enabling the complete fulfilment of the to be subsequently treated with priority in the code’s recommendations. report. Before carrying out this evaluation, the stakeholders of the organisation must be Alba’s concern for the search for excellence identified in order either to consult them in this and for promoting best practices in the sphere connection or to have an open perspective of Good Governance and Corporate Social of their perception of the organisation and Responsibility were internationally recognised, expectations with regard to its activity and evident in its election as the company with impact. A classification of the stakeholders has the Best Corporate Governance of the Year been made in accordance with their direct two2016 in the Global Banking and Finance way relationship -association with stakeholdersAwards, awarded by the British Publication and depending on whether they are internal or The European4 and which reward business external to the organisation. excellence and innovation. . 4. Publication specialising in economy and finance headquartered in Great Britain, whose readers include business owners, chairmen, CEOs, executives, institutional investors or investment fund managers and family offices. 5. G4-19, G4-24 6. G4-32 214 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FIGURE 2. PROJECTION OF ALBA’S STAKEHOLDERS INVESTEE STAKEHOLDERS BOARDS OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES MANAGEMENT CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS SHARED STAKEHOLDERS REGULATORS SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ALBA STAKEHOLDERS SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES MANAGEMENT CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS Relations with stakeholders Internal stakeholders External stakeholders SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 215 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Subsequent to the internal evaluation of a activity were screened and contrasted with list of topics drawn from various sources, sustainability experts, resulting in the following such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index matrix in which the X-axis shows the internal survey or the GRI methodology, those which measurement of Alba and the Y-axis shows the were most relevant to Alba’s sector and external measurement: FIGURE 3. MATERIALITY MATRIX Materiality Analysis Transparency Regulatory compliance Ethics and good governance Integration of ESG risk Talent training External importance management and retention Social action Diversity Environmental Systemic risk footprint Sustainable supply chain Internal importance 216 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Communication channels with stakeholders • Since 2011 there is a communication channel at the disposal of its employees Transparency is one of Corporación Financiera that makes it possible to confidentially Alba’s maximum attributes, since it generates report conducts that could represent an trust among all those involved with the entity, irregularity or breach of the Code of Ethics i.e. its stakeholders. Additionally, it is one of to the Audit Committee or Secretary of the the pillars of social responsibility, since it is a Board of Directors. voluntary act of the entities which goes a step further than the mere fulfilment of the regulation. • Other sections provide additional information of value to other stakeholders, Alba has enabled different communication in order to provide them with in-depth channels with its stakeholders, in accordance knowledge of the organisation. with their needs: • Its website contains relevant and updated information in Spanish and English about the company and its history, the performance of its investees and its investment strategy. • The space for shareholders and investors on this website includes relevant facts and financial information about the company. A channel has been enabled for them on the website with two routes: ordinary correspondence addressed to the headquarters of Alba, S.A. Calle Castelló nº 77, 5º Planta 28006, Madrid7and a second route through the following email addressed to alba@corporacionalba.es 7. G4-5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 217 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3.2. Alba’s portfolio from the viewpoint in its sector. Alba is a long-term investor seeking of sustainability profitability in the sustainable development of companies in which it participates as a Alba invests in leading companies, with a solid shareholder. At 31 December 2016, Alba’s management team, has great financial strength position in its investees was as follows: and flexibility and a proven competitive edge FIGURE 4. INVESTEES AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 ACS Acerinox Ebro Bolsas y Viscofan Indra Euskaltel Parques Clínica Foods Mercados Reunidos Baviera Españoles 7.52% 18.96% 10.01% 12.06% 11.02% 11.32% 11.00% 10.53% 20.00% CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Mecalux Panasa Flex Siresa En Campus in-Store TRRG Campus Media Holding 24.38% 26.50% 19.75% 17.44% 32.75% 18.89% 7.50% 218 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 These companies were divided by sector as follows: FIGURE 5. DISTRIBUTION OF INVESTEES BY SECTOR AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 Construction 22% Industrial 20% Food 17% Real Estate 12% Financial services 9% Technological 6% Telecommunication 4% Others 11% At 31 December 2016, the average life practically all investments have a duration of investments in the portfolio, weighted by in excess of six years and some of the most the initial investment made, was close to significant, both in terms of amount and 13 years despite including six investments profitability obtained, have a duration in completed in the last two years (in-Store excess of ten years, such as Pryca Media, Euskaltel, Parques Reunidos, (14 years), Carrefour (17 years) or Siresa Campus Noroeste, Siresa Norte Sogecable (13 years). II). Considering Alba’s historical portfolio, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 219 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Alba is aware that the securities that comprise These challenges, which may potentially its portfolio are exposed to different extraaffect Alba’s investees, translate into risks and financial risks, which vary according to the opportunities, due to which the proactivity of the sector and other specific variables of the management and the detection and monitoring company, such as degree of delocalisation of these challenges are key to ensuring the or the countries in which it is present. In terms creation of value and competitiveness. Below of sustainability, investees face a multitude of we explain the environmental, social and good strategic challenges that must be prioritised in governance (ESG) challenges considered to be order to maintain their level of competitiveness most significant according to the probability and in the long term. their impact on the different companies: FIGURE 6. SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES FOR INVESTEES Good governance In view of the cases of corruption at the national and international level, peer groups, society and the public administration have begun to treat this issue with greater precaution. The number of controls and hard and soft legislation (i.e. EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive) developed by regulators is increasing. Integrity Beyond reputational implications, companies must consider the possible monetary losses arising from penalties associated with the commission of irregularities or the impact of this type of behaviours on financial markets. The capacity to protect one’s business and information from cybernetic attacks is becoming a significant responsible management factor. This is particularly relevant in the case of companies with assets or critical information Cyber-Security belonging to their customers. A cybernetic attack may cause major losses and the infringement of certain legal aspects related to data confidentiality. The ability to continue operating at full capacity under adverse conditions such as a significant external shock (i.e. natural Business catastrophe, cybernetic attack, geopolitical conflict, etc.) is a decisive factor in the creation of long-term value. For sectors sustainability where the constant availability of a product or service is a decisive factor -i.e. financial services or electricity supplyimplementing systems that respond to the materialisation of this risk is crucial. The inclusion of innovation in the development of new products, services or technologies that contribute to the Responsible transition towards a more sustainable world that meets the needs of the base of the pyramid or finds efficient solutions innovation in terms of the circular economy or energy consumption, will allow companies which apply this approach to increase their target public and competitiveness. 220 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Social Human Rights in The globalisation and delocalisation of production processes multiplies the risks of violating human and labour rights throughout the supply chain. The violation thereof can lead to lack of trust among consumers and society and public the supply chain institutions in general, in addition to penalties and internal conflicts. On many occasions, business activity has an environmental impact on the local surroundings and on the life of the Local communities where a company is present. It is important for the long-term business stability of the company to legitimate itself before the local community. Taking into account its opinion when making certain strategic decisions or planning community and executing some projects not only enhances the company’s prospects but also mitigates possible frictions with the environment (i.e. construction of infrastructures in territories with indigenous populations). Animal Animal welfare -how safe and healthy they areis very important for companies whose activity is related to the marketing or treatment thereof. In addition to being an issue with great visibility for certain peer groups that can give rise to welfare controversy, it is also important with regard to their customers’ health and to product safety. Environmental Greenhouse gas emissions contribute to climate change, whose consequences could alter the global climate system. At the Greenhouse global level, external carbon pricing instruments and emission reduction objectives are becoming increasingly ambitious. In this regard, regulators, peer groups and civil society exhaustively monitor companies’ carbon footprint. gas emissions Companies which do not reduce their greenhouse gases can face monetary, potential and real penalties, and their reputational risk increases. Emissions in the supply chain are acquiring great relevance as the methods used to calculate the carbon footprint become Emissions in more sophisticated. On many occasions, the greatest impact in terms of emissions of a product is not caused by the the supply chain manufacture thereof, but rather by upstream supplier activity. Measuring the global environmental impact of products is an increasingly widespread practice and, therefore, analysing their life cycle is becoming increasingly important to mitigate risks and improve company efficiency. Climate change is a challenge that threatens not only the environment, but also health, cities and another aspects that affect Climate our lives. Measures for mitigating and adapting to climate change are appearing more and more often on government and change company agendas. They have and will have an impact on the production models of many businesses, which will be forced to introduce innovation parameters to adapt to the demands of the future society. Biodiversity contributes to the health of society and of the planet, fulfilling virtually irreplaceable functions in natural cycles. Although the attention of peer groups and the public towards this issue is not yet as developed as in other aspects, it may Biodiversity be a relevant factor in specific industries (i.e. industries whose operations are based in tropical rainforest areas at risk of deforestation are facing potential legal battles and reputational damage). Water is fast becoming a scarce commodity on the back of a growing world population. Its use is being gradually regulated and controlled, giving rise to legal risks for companies that do not comply with national or international Water standards. It is vitally important for companies which make intensive use of this raw material to control the water footprint, particularly in areas classified as water-stressed areas. Given the shortage of resources for a growing population and increased consumption, the treatment of waste for Waste reintroduction thereof in the economy in order to close the cycle promoted by the circular economy is of vital importance. management Companies can improve their competitiveness in efficient waste management not only in terms of reduction of environmental impact but also cost savings. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 221 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FIGURE 7. IMPACT OF THE MAIN SUSTAINABILITY FACTORS ON THE COMPANIES Responsible Human rights Integrity Cyber-security Business sustainability innovation supply chain Acerinox √ √ √ ACS √ √ √ BME √ √ √ CEX √ √ Clínica Baviera √ √ Ebro √ √ √ √ Encampus Euskaltel √ √ √ √ Flex √ √ Indra √ √ √ in-Store Media √ √ Mecalux √ Panasa √ Parques Reunidos √ Siresa TRRG Holding √ √ Viscofan √ 222 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Local Animal Gas Supply chain Climate Waste community welfare emissions emissions change Biodiversity Water management √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 223 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Another international trend envisaged in the strategy of both the public sector and thirdparty sector organisations and companies is the United Nations Agenda 2030. It proposes 17 Sustainable Development Objectives (SDO) specified in 169 goals that cover all the areas in which the company must make progress in order to achieve sustainable development. FIGURE 8. THE OBJECTIVES OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 224 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Alba has analysed which SDOs are strategic and innovative distribution channels that make it to companies -by sectorand could represent possible to reach a larger number of consumers, a competitive advantage or a development increasing their business and capacity to opportunity for products, services, technologies contribute to sustainable development: FIGURE 9. EXPOSURE OF INVESTEES TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES BY SECTOR Exposure to SDOs Investees 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Acerinox √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ ACS √ √ √ √ BME √ √ √ √ √ Clínica Baviera √ √ √ √ CEX √ √ √ Ebro Foods √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Encampus √ √ √ Euskaltel √ √ √ Flex √ √ √ √ √ √ Indra √ √ √ in-Store Media √ √ Mecalux √ √ √ √ √ √ Panasa √ √ √ √ √ √ Parques Reunidos √ √ √ Siresa √ √ √ TRRG Holding √ √ √ √ √ √ Viscofan √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 225 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In addition to the analysis of risks and macro to integrate sustainability in their strategy and opportunities of each of the investees, studying decision-making process. The two figures below their degree of progress in terms of social show the most common good practices that responsibility allow to identify which of the companies can carry out with respect to CSR8 investees require support and greater drive and compliance of the investees: FIGURE 10. ANALYSIS OF THE CSR OF LISTED INVESTEES AND ALBA Year of joining Carbon Dow Jones CSR on the to Global Sustainability Disclosure Sustainability Company website Compact report GRI Project Index IBEX 35 ACS √ 2002 √ √ √ Acerinox √ 2013 √ √ √ Indra √ 2004 √ √ √ √ Viscofan √ 2015 √ Listed Clinica Baviera √ Ebro Foods √ 2002 √ √ √ BME √ 2011 √ √ Euskaltel √ 2005 √ √ √ Parques Reunidos √ Alba √ 2015 √ √ 8. A  s initiatives not mentioned in the report until now, the Carbon Disclosure Project is one of the most relevant projects on the international scene in the sphere of climate change that encourages companies to report their performance and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index is a methodology for measuring the global sustainability of companies -which is only accessed if it is listed, among other requirementsthat classifies international companies to include them in the stock market index (DJSI). 226 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FIGURE 11. ANALYSIS OF THE CSR OF INVESTEES BY GROUP Year of attachment Carbon Dow Jones CSR on the to Global Sustainability Disclosure Sustainability website Compact report GRI Project Index Ibex 35 100% 100% 100% 75% 75% 25% Ibex 35 + Listed Companies 100% 78% 78% 67% 56% 11% Listed Companies 100% 60% 60% 60% 40% 0% Total Companies 67% 39% 39% 33% 28% 6% Non-Listed Companies 33% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 227 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Figures 10 and 11 show that the higher 3.3. Alba’s human team the degree of sophistication of the social responsibility initiative (from left to right), the Corporación Financiera Alba is an organisation smaller the number of companies that carries which is aware of the importance of caring for it out. The same occurs if we compare the its employees and providing the most favourable IBEX 35 companies with those listed on work environment possible to achieve the continuous market. This phenomenon optimum results. Beyond the daily functions is common not only to the companies of they discharge to create value, Alba’s team is this universe, but also at the national and made up of people who value the company’s international level, since companies with commitment to reconciliation, training, safety greater resources -monetary and humanand and health and talent retention. with greater visibility usually invest more in social responsibility. As an additional factor, in the decision-making process of institutional investors we can observe an upward trend due to the inclusion of ESG aspects -the socalled socially responsible investment (SRI)and companies are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of developing the CSR area. No major differences seen with respect to the previous year between the degree of progress in CSR made by investees, although there is still much room for improvement in this field. 228 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FIGURE 12. COMPANY ORGANISATION CHART Staff Presidency (2) (2) Staff Vice-Presidency (1) (1) Institutional Relations CEO Staff Secretariat (1) (1) (2) (1) General Investments Real Estate, Financial Artá Capital Security Secretariat Dir. and Systems Dir. Presidency Dir. Department (1) (1) (1) (1) (1) (12) Legal Real Estate Financial Systems Advisory Department Department Department Department Director Department (2) (3) (6) (7) (4) (4) (1) Department Department (1) (7) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 229 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Diversity convenient to avoid possible negative At group level, Alba’s team grew 11% with impacts on employees’ health, the company respect to 2015, from 54 to 61 employees, has an emergency measures plan so that as a result of new hires. All employees have any incident that could affect its facilities permanent employment contracts and the has little or minimum impact. It has placed number of wome9 account for 31% of the total. an “Office Work Safety and Health” manual at its employees’ disposal and ASEPEYO Equal opportunities when hiring, promoting or annually conducts an audit on the offices evaluating a person is a governing principle at and prepares a report with recommendations Alba, where meritocracy, professionalism and on lighting, workstations, files, etc., that other competences and skills are determining is subsequently evaluated internally to factors in the process. These values also apply implement improvement initiatives. in the selection of the members of the Board of Directors. In 2015 two female directors were As for social benefits, all staff have an annual appointed, although one of them could not medical examination, health, life and accident take office. In 2016, the shareholders at the insurance -as payment in kindand pension Annual General Meeting appointed another plans10. two female directors, raising the current number to three female members of the Board of Reconciliation Directors. In this manner, Alba fulfils its intention One of the criteria through which the degree to increase the diversity of its Board, as of employee satisfaction is measured in an indicated by the Code of Good Governance organisation is the possibility of balancing of the listed companies of the CNMV, and work with other personal aspects. The progresses towards the objective of having materialisation of this principle is included in 30% of female directors in 2020. the code of conduct11 through point 6.5, in which Alba undertakes to promote the family Health and Safety reconciliation policies that will facilitate the The work performed by the employees in an necessary work-life balance. office environment ensures that safety and health do not entail a significant employment Training risk at Alba. However, aware that investment The continuous improvement of employees in preventive measures is necessary and in current society is essential for adapting 9. G4-10 and G4-LA12 10. G4-LA2 11. G4-56. 230 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 the organisation to a market undergoing projects: from entities whose mission is to constant change and vulnerable to multiple generate knowledge and research on the parameters beyond the organisation’s control. evolution of the economy and society at the Training is aimed at all the organisation’s national level, to those who are responsible for profiles and is more intense in the technical promoting Culture. These collaborations are profiles. In 2016 training amounted to based on long-term alliances that go beyond 630 hours, distributed as follows between sporadic collaborations that do not require a the different departments: Legal 70 hours, tacit commitment. Investment 75 hours, Real Estate 433 hours (essentially due to specific recycling courses Additionally, different types of activities that increased the usual number of training are indirectly promoted by the foundations hours), Administration 150 hours, Systems of investee companies ACS, Ebro Foods, 32 hours and Communication 20 hours12. Euskaltel and Parques Reunidos. Also, in Overall, the objective of exceeding the 2016 monetary contributions amounting figures of the previous year has been fulfilled. to EUR 315,000 were made to the following organisations: 3.4. Alba’s impact on society13 In the 2015 annual report, an objective was established with regard to the activation of the corporate volunteering plan. To put it into practice, Alba availed itself of the plan implemented by Banca March. In this regard, it should be noted that Banca March participated in a project, coordinated by the AEB and Fundación Junior Achievement, for volunteering in financial education in Secondary Education Institutes. Within the framework of the different activities of this programme, a total of 30 people were involved, who dedicated approximately 150 hours of their time. Annually, Alba financially supports different 12. G4-LA9 13. G4-16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 231 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Institute which aims to Fundación de Estudios de Foundation that develops its promote, conduct and Economía Aplicada activities in the field of human disseminate work and Foundation which aims to and scientific culture. research regarding economic positively influence society, and social matters in order researching the most important to encourage private enterprise economic and social matters and the market as an efficient of our time. way of creating and allocation resources. The measurement of the positive impact on which there are not many risks or opportunities the community is also performed through the in the purchasing decisions. Even so, it monitors responsible management of suppliers and its supply chain and ensures the maintenance of the generation of economic activity in the the long-term relationships therewith. In 2016 supply chain14. Alba forms part of the service its contracts and service provisions were carried sector -not very intensive in the consumption of out through 88 different suppliers -100% localresourcesand is a medium company if we take which entailed a disbursement of EUR 3.7 into account the number of employees, due to million plus VAT. 14. G4-12 232 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3.5. Alba’s environmental footprint Alba did calculate its carbon footprint, in which it considered both air transport and The company’s role in the care and electricity consumption by offices15. This level improvement of the environment is essential of measurement corresponds to Scope 1 GHG and, due to the resources at its disposal and emissions (direct emissions)16 and amounted the impacts it generates with its activity, must to 121 tonnes of CO2, corresponding to assume a leading role, together with the States, 390,518 kwh of electricity consumed and to reach a balance between the company’s 170 routes by train and plane totalling more development and its co-existence with the than 130,000 kilometres. This figure accounts environment. As part of its commitment to for 85% of the energy consumed in 2015. CSR, Alba takes into account the importance of integrating environmental aspects through In recent years, actions aimed at reducing CO2 its investment decisions and the direct impact emissions and achieving greater efficiency generated by the organisation’s operations. have been carried out in the buildings. Thus, all This is expressed in the prevention of pollution, the new luminaires installed in the offices since the rational and sustainable use of resources 2014, both in common and leased areas, and correct waste management. are LED luminaires with control, in accordance with the CTE (Spanish Technical Building Climate change is a global concern and is Code)18. New, more efficient energy-producing considered the greatest current challenge faced machines19 and new condensation boilers have by the population with impacts on issues such also been installed20. as food safety, health and immigration. In 2016 Alba’s Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) report was not presented, since the selfevaluation of the policies and initiatives related to climate change is usually performed by large companies whose activity has a significant impact in terms of CO2 emissions, and which in Alba’s case is practically irrelevant. 15. G4-EN3 16. G4-EN15 17 Figure extrapolated based on the consumption made in the first nine months of the year. 18. In the buildings of Valrealty, Diagonal II, Miguel Angel 23 and General Perón, 38. 19. In the buildings of Valrealty, Miguel Angel 23 and General Perón, 38. 20. In the buildings of Valrealty and General Perón, 38. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 233 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Within the philosophy of efficiency and savings in resources, all the new printers enable double4. Degree of progress sided printing, which facilitates a reduction in of the CSR plan total paper consumption. For years, efficient bureaucracy has been incentivised by the In the report corresponding to 2015, a series elimination of paper documents and their of objectives to be achieved during the year replacement by digital remittances. Paper covered by this report were established. In consumption amounted to 296,300 folios in 2016 major progress was made, namely in 2016, down 43% on 2015, and they were the achievement of the Good Governance all certified by the FSC (Forest Management objectives, its election as the Company with Certification) environmental seal. the Best Corporate Governance 2016 in the Global Banking and Finance Awards and Although the activity of the financial sector in the volunteering plan and its intention to is not intensive in water consumption, Alba expand it in 2017. is aware of the need to reduce it insofar as possible, particularly taking into account Spain’s The table below shows the follow-up of the characteristics, with potential risk of drought and objectives on which work will continue, in order desertisation. Therefore, control, minimisation to gradually address them all. of consumption and awareness are paramount. Water consumption amounted to 8.74 cubic The area in which most progress has been metres21, slightly up 3% on 2015. made is good governance -the most relevant for the Company-, followed by the social and environmental areas, respectively. 21. G4-EN8 234 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Objectives Level of compliance Good governance 1.1. Promote the involvement of investees in terms of corporate social responsibility √ 1.2. Promote the attachment of investees to the United Nations Global Compact √ 1.3. Promote compliance of investees with the new EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive x Training in ESG aspects for the Investment Department team in order to gradually include the analysis 2. ~ of extra-financial risks in portfolio management 3. Join the Good Governance promotion initivatives arising in Spain √ 4. Development and consolidation of the crime prevention plan in compliance with current legislation √ Social 1. Definition of a professional and pesonal work-life balance plan x 2. Improve employees training process √ 1. Increase the promotion of social action ~ 2. Define a corporate volunteering plan in the company √ Environmental 1. Increase the coverage of the carbon footprint by including the real estate portion to its calculation ~ 2. Promote the reduction of paper consumption √ 3. Promote the participation of investees in the Carbon Disclosure Project initiative ~ x Progress has not been made on this measure ~ Remains unchanged / Some progress has been made √ Fulfilled SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 235 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5. Table of contents GRI GRI 4 Section Omissions Strategy and analysis G4-1 Letter from the Chairman G4-2 Letter from the Chairman Organisational profile G4-3 Alba’s materiality and Stakeholders G4-5 Alba’s materiality and Stakeholders G4-6 Transactions are only performed in Spain G4-7 Investing responsibly G4-8 Transactions are only performed in Spain Workforce: 61 people G4-9 Capitalisation (30-12-2016): EUR 2,498 M€ G4-10 Alba’s human team 100% of employees covered by G4-11 the Office Workers Collective Agreement G4-12 Alba’s impact on society The shareholder structure did not vary. In 2016, CFA G4-13 absorbed two subsidiaries, Alba Participaciones and Balboa Participaciones, both wholly-owned by Alba. N/A Corporación Financiera Alba has a limited direct G4-14 environmental impact and, therefore, does not require application of the precautionary principle. 236 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI 4 Section Omissions Organisational profile G4-15 Managing Alba with social responsibility G4-16 Alba's impact on society Material aspects and coverage 27 companies including Group companies, associates G4-17 and venture capital companies, all of which are included in the Notes to the financial statements The process, followed by determination of materiality G4-18 and content, was performed internally and included the participation of sustainability experts G4-19 Alba’s materiality and stakeholders G4-20 N/A Materiality was limited to internal aspects of G4-21 the organisation There are no restatements of the content of G4-22 the Notes to the prior year’s financial statements. There were no significant changes in the scope or G4-23 coverage of each material topic Stakeholders engagement G4-24 Alba’s materiality and stakeholders The election is based on the impacts they may have on G4-25 the business and on those arising from Alba’s activity G4-26 N/A G4-27 No problems with stakeholders were recorded SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 237 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI 4 Section Omissions Report Profile G4-28 2016 calendar year G4-29 30 March 2016 G4-30 Annual G4-31 lff@alba-cfa.com Alba’s materiality G4-32 and stakeholders G4-33 The Notes to the financial statements were not verified by external entities Governance The Annual General Meeting, called and convened with the legal and statutory formalities and those envisaged in the Regulations of the Annual General Meeting, is the supreme and sovereign body of expression of the company’s will. (i) Nomination and Remuneration Committee -composed of external directors, most of its members and its Chairman being independent directors-. G4-34 (ii) Audit and Compliance Committee -composed of external directors, most of its members and its Chairman being independent directors-. (iii) Operations Committee -composed of a minimum of three and a maximum of six directors appointed by the Board of Directors, taking into account their knowledge, skills and experience and the Committee’s duties-. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Alba's human team Economic performance G4-EC1 Net revenue: EUR 18.6 M (including rental income) 238 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GRI 4 Section Omissions Energy G4-EN3 Alba's environmental footprint Water G4-EN8 Alba’s environmental footprint Emissions G4-EN15 Alba’s environmental footprint Employment G4-LA2 Alba’s human team Occupational Health and Safety In 2016, four employees took sick leave over a total of G4-LA9 396 days (305, 60, 26 and 5 days) And there were two maternity leaves (43 and 12 days) Training and education G4-LA9 Alba’s human team Diversity and equal opportunities G4-LA12 Alba’s human team Regulatory compliance G4-SO8 In 2016 there were no fines or sanctions in this aspect SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 239
