Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Assessment Report Company Assessed : CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) Overall Score: 64/100 CSR engagement: Confirmed May 2016 Size: Small Country (company headquarters): France Presence in Risk Countries: No Category/Industry: Architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 1/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 TABLES OF CONTENTS 1. Score Overview 2. Supplier Scorecard Objectives 3. Assessment Process 4. Ecovadis Methodology a. Four themes with 21 criterias b. Seven management indicators c. Scoring Scale 5. How to understand company Scorecard a. Quantitative information: score & activated criteria b. Qualitative information: Strengths & Improvement Areas 6. Theme: Environment 7. Theme: Labor Practices & Human Rights 8. Theme: Fair Business Practices 9. Theme: Sustainable Procurement 10. 360° ­ Stakeholder Information 11. Specific Comments 12. Contact us ABOUT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the continuing commitment to behave responsibly by integrating social and environmental concerns into business operations. CSR goes beyond regulatory compliance to focus on how companies manage their economic, social, and environmental impacts, as well as their relationships with stakeholders (e.g. employees, suppliers, government). ABOUT THE ASSESSMENT The EcoVadis methodology framework assesses the policies and measures put in place as well as the reporting published by companies with regards to environmental, labor practices & human rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement issues. The assessment conducted by CSR experts is made on the basis of the company answers to a survey which is dynamically adapted to their country, sector and size, on the basis of supporting documentation, and on public and stakeholder (NGOs, trade unions, press) information. ABOUT ECOVADIS EcoVadis operates the 1st collaborative platform allowing companies to assess the environmental and social performance of their suppliers on a global basis. EcoVadis combines technology and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expertise to deliver simple and reliable supplier scorecards, covering 150 purchasing categories and 21 CSR criteria. This document cannot be reproduced or distributed unless otherwise specified in EcoVadis contractually granted license right. No part of this document may be modified in whole or in part and in any form prior express written permission of EcoVadis. EcoVadis does not warrant the accuracy, reliability, completeness of the information, content, text, graphics provided on this document. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 2/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 1. Score Overview The overall and theme scores summarize the CSR performance of CENTRE OVERALL SCORE 64/100 DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) on a scale of 1 to 100. Legend CSR PERFORMANCE Outstanding Environment ENV 60 Advanced Confirmed Labor Practices LAB 70 Partial Fair Business Practices FBP 60 None Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 The grey bars on this graph represent the benchmarks. Benchmarks compare BENCHMARK a company’s overall score and theme scores to other companies operating within the same industry. Here the Benchmark on over 150 suppliers. NOTE: The top and bottom 5% of performers are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. ENV : Environment LAB : Labor Practices & Human Rights FBP : Fair Business Practices SUP : Sustainable Procurement Benchmark is done on all suppliers of the same business category on the EcoVadis database This graph depicts the distribution of overall scores for several thousand companies on the EcoVadis platform. CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) has an overall score of 64 and the company is ranked alongside 12% which have Confirmed CSR engagement. The red dot represents the average of all suppliers The blue diamond refers to company position CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) has been identified as Gold regarding their approach to CSR management. To achieve this recognition, a company must have an overall score of [62-100]. The Corrective Action Plan (CAP) is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Action Plans, a starting point for an Corrective Action Plan in progress effective dialogue on actions taken by the supplier to improve their CSR performance. CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) has a CAP in place and is working on improving their CSR management system. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 3/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 on improving their CSR management system. 2. Supplier Scorecard Objectives UNDERSTAND: Get a clear picture of the company’s CSR performance. With a score on four CSR themes (environmental, labor practices & Human Rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement), that highlight the company’s strengths and possible areas for improvement. Know the company’s positioning compared to their industry sector peers. On which theme is this company better positioned than their peers? How is this company positioned in comparison to their sector average? Identify sector specific initiatives. What are the main international CSR regulations and sector initiatives specific to the industry sector of the company? COMMUNICATE: Meet client needs. More and more companies raise questions about their supplier’s environmental and social performance. This assessment allows to demonstrate company commitment. Leverage a unique communication tool. Directly share the assessment results with all clients. 3. Assessment Process pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 4/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 4. Ecovadis Methodology is based on A. Four themes with 21 criteria The EcoVadis methodology takes into account 21 CSR criteria which are contained under four themes: ENVIRONMENT, LABOR, FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES, and SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT. The methodology and criteria are in line with international CSR standards including the Global Reporting Initiative, United Nations Global Compact, and ISO 26000. B. Seven management indicators The EcoVadis assessment evaluates a company CSR management system by looking at seven management indicators. The four themes and their subsequent 21 CSR criteria are assessed on the basis of the following management indicators that a company has in place. Policies (weight: 25%) 1. Policies: Mission statements, commitments, principles, objectives and/or policies issued by the company. 2. Endorsement: Endorsement of CSR external initiatives, principles and/or active participation to international/sector CSR initiative. Actions (weight: 35%) 3. Measures: Concrete actions put in place to support commitments, objectives and deployment of policies (e.g. training, manual procedures). 4. Coverage: Level of deployment/dissemination of measures and concrete actions put in place throughout the company to support commitments and/or policies. 5. Certifications: Certifications received for the management system and/ or labels received for the products/ services delivered. Results (weight: 40%) 6. Reporting/ KPI: Quality and level of reporting readily available to stakeholders 7. 360°: Controversies, condemnations or positive developments reported by stakeholders (NGOs, Trade Unions, Press) having an impact on the company's CSR performance. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 5/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 5. How to understand company Scorecard The overall score can be better understood by looking at quantitative information theme scores, activated criteria and qualitative information strengths & improvement areas. A. QUANTITATIVES INFORMATION: SCORES & ACTIVATED CRITERIA THEME SCORES: Like the overall score, theme scores are on a scale of 1 to 100. ACTIVATED CRITERIA: E a c h o f t h e f o u r t h e m e s E N V I R O N M E N T , L A B O R , FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES, and SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENThave specific criteria associated to them. It is important to note that not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). For more information see Appendix: category profile. If criteria are not activated, this means that the specific associated Non Activated issue is not relevant or has very low CSR risk for the company Medium importance criteria are the issues where there is some CSR Medium Importance risk, but it is not the most pressing criteria. High-importance criteria are the issues where the company faces High Importance the greatest CSR risk. Criteria classified as Only in Risk Countries are activated only if the Only in Risk countries company has significant operations in one or more risk country. B. QUALITATIVE INFORMATION: STRENGTHS & IMPROVEMENT AREAS Qualitative information provides more details and insights into the theme scores. For each theme the company is assigned Strengths (the elements of the CSR management system that are positive) and Improvement Areas (the elements of the CSR management system that need to be improved). The strengths & improvement areas are divided according to the 3 management indicators Policies, Actions, Results – and are also classified by level of importance/priority (i.e. Priority.) Green check marks indicate the Strengths Alert signs indicate the Improvement Areas Improvement Areas are a focus point for improvement. The EcoVadis Corrective Action Plan Tool allows companies to improve their CSR performance on specific improvement areas. It is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It supports the development of Action Plans, a starting point for an effective dialogue between buyers and suppliers on actions taken by a supplier to improve their CSR performance. Each improvement area is given a priority level Priority Level which can be used to set up corrective action plans. High Medium Low pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 6/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 C. THE SCORING SCALE pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 7/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 6. ENVIRONMENT The environment theme takes into account both operational factors (e.g. energy consumption, waste management, etc.) and product stewardship (e.g. product end of life, customer health and safety issues). ENVIRONMENT: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor Practices LAB 70 Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 WEIGHT of the Theme ENV 2 out of 8 -> 25% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other the company industry of operation and country EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: of operation(s). The theme weights influence the are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 resulting overall score. suppliers to compare with. ENVIRONMENT: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). ENVIRONMENT: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 8/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 ENVIRONMENT:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP No supporting documentation or only basic policy on More Information some relevant issues [ i.e. materials, chemicals & waste, • The company has either no supporting documentation on sustainable consumption ] policies, or only provided evidence of basic policy statements that do not cover all the major environmental issues the company is confronted with. Guidance • A standard environmental policy integrates commitments and/or operational objectives on the main environmental risks the company faces. It is communicated to internal and external stakeholders through a formal dedicated document (e.g. QHSE Policy). A standard environmental policy contains qualitative objectives/commitments specific to those issues. The policy should also incorporate some of the following elements: scope of application, allocation of responsibilities, quantitative objectives (i.e. on energy consumption & GHG emissions and materials, chemicals & waste management), and review mechanisms. Click on the link below for ECOVADIS HOW­TO GUIDES — Developing an Environmental Policy. Environmental policy on some relevant issues [ i.e. More Information energy consumption & GHGs ] • The company has formalized statements, commitments, and operational objectives on the management and mitigation of its environmental footprint, focusing on some material issues. The existing policy does not cover all the major environmental issues the company is confronted with. Guidance • A standard environmental policy integrates commitments and/or operational objectives on the main environmental risks the company faces. It is communicated to internal and external stakeholders through a formal dedicated document (e.g. QHSE Policy). A standard environmental policy contains qualitative objectives/commitments specific to those issues. The policy should also incorporate some of the following elements: scope of application, allocation of responsibilities, quantitative objectives (i.e. on energy consumption & GHG emissions and materials, chemicals & waste management), and review mechanisms. Endorsement of external initiative covering main CSR issues [ i.e. GRANDDE ] pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 9/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 ENVIRONMENT:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Work process or innovative technologies implemented to reduce, recycle or reuse waste Measures to treat waste gas or reduce air pollutants emissions Reduction of energy consumption through innovative technologies Provision of eco-design services to clients More Information • The company offers services to its clients that take into consideration environmental impacts. • Eco­design services offer an approach to products or processes keeping in mind special consideration regarding the environmental impacts associated during its lifecycle; from acquisition of raw materials to end of life. Eco-design services seek to aid clients in defining and choosing more sustainable ways to handle their products or to manage their projects. • Examples might include green consultancy services or services provided to clients for the calculation of CO2 footprint from the use of their products or services. M e a s u r e s t o o p t i m i z e t r a n s p o r t o r r e d u c e C O 2 More Information emissions from transport • The company has implemented specific measures to optimize transportation or to reduce the amount of CO2 emissions related to transportation. • Examples might include devices to optimize route planning, provision of live traffic information to drivers, carbon compensation options and multimodal transportation plans (i.e. the transportation of goods utilizing differing means of transport). pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 10/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 ENVIRONMENT:RESULTS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP No reporting on environmental issues apart from KPIs in More Information the questionnaire • The company declared no formal reporting on environmental issues and there is no information within the company's supporting documentation on key performance indicators (KPIs) or statistical figures. The only information available on these topics is contained within the questionnaire declarations. Guidance • In order to measure and monitor the effectiveness of its CSR management system internally, and in order to report performance to stakeholders, a company should report on CSRrelated Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). In the EcoVadis assessment, the Reporting indicator looks at the quality, transparency and level of reporting readily available to stakeholders. The KPIs provided should be recent (i.e. within the last 2 reporting periods) and should be for the scope under evaluation. • KPIs can be sector­specific and include for instance: direct energy consumption by primary energy source, total direct greenhouse gas emissions, total volume of water recycled and reused (Source: Global Reporting Initiative). These and other relevant KPIs can be integrated within the company's CSR report, Annual Report, Code of Ethics or any other applicable reporting document. • One way companies can improve their environmental performance reporting is through the application of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI produces a sustainability reporting framework to enhance organizational transparency. Within this framework, companies report on relevant environmental KPIs including energy consumption & GHG emissions, water consumption and waste management figures. Click on the link below for ECOVADIS HOW­TO GUIDES — Developing an Environmental Report. Reporting on electricity consumption More Information •The company has reported KPIs with regard to electricity consumption either through formal documentation or questionnaire declaration. Guidance • The company reports on electricity consumption from facilities, plants, property or assets that are owned or controlled by the company. Examples of key performance indicators include total electricity consumption, electricity consumed per kg of product or per unit produced. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 11/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 7. LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS (LAB) The labor theme takes into account both Labor Practice issues (e.g. health and safety, working conditions, etc.) and Human Rights issues (e.g. discrimination & harassment, child labor, etc.). LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor Practices LAB 70 Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 WEIGHT of the Theme LAB 4 out of 8 -> 50% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other the company industry of operation and country EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: of operation(s). The theme weights influence the are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 resulting overall score. suppliers to compare with. LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 12/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP No supporting documentation or only basic policy on More Information some relevant issues [ i.e. employee health & safety, • The company has either no supporting documentation on working conditions, discrimination ] policies, or only provided evidence of basic policy statements that do not cover all the major labor practice & human rights issues the company is confronted with. Guidance • A standard labor and human rights policy includes commitments and/or operational objectives on the main labor and human rights risks the company faces. It is communicated to internal and external stakeholders through a formal dedicated document. A standard labor and human rights policy contains qualitative objectives/commitments specific to those issues. The policy should also incorporate some of the following elements: scope of application, allocation of responsibilities, quantitative objectives, and review mechanisms. Click on the link below for ECOVADIS HOW­TO GUIDES — Developing a Labor Practices & Human Rights Policy. Labor or human rights policy on some relevant issues [ More Information i.e. career management & training ] • The company has formalized statements, commitments, and operational objectives on the management of its labor and human rights practices, focusing on some material issues. The existing policy does not cover all the major labor and human rights issues the company is confronted with. Guidance • A standard labor and human rights policy includes commitments and/or operational objectives on the main labor and human rights risks the company faces. It is communicated to internal and external stakeholders through a formal dedicated document. A standard labor and human rights policy contains qualitative objectives/commitments specific to those issues. The policy should also incorporate some of the following elements: scope of application, allocation of responsibilities, quantitative objectives, and review mechanisms. Click on the link below for ECOVADIS HOW­TO GUIDES — Developing a Labor Practices & Human Rights Policy. Endorsement of external initiative covering main CSR issues [ i.e. GRANDDE ] pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 13/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Training of relevant employees on health & safety risks and best working practices Employee health & safety detailed risk assessment Regular assessment (at least once a year) of individual performance Company specific health care program for employees More Information • The company has implemented a specific health care program for employees covering private medical treatment. • Some examples of areas it could cover include drug treatment of cancer, health assessments, dental care, surgical procedures and treatment of conditions relating to alcohol and substance abuse. Mandatory health check-up for employees Active preventive measures for stress More Information • The company has implemented active preventive measures for stress. • Work­related stress can be caused by poor work design (for example, lack of control over work processes), poor management, unsatisfactory working conditions, and a lack of support from colleagues and supervisors. • Some examples of measures include, conducting stress risk assessments, ensuring that employees are appropriately trained to fulfill their roles, monitoring working hours and overtime, ensuring that employees take their full holiday entitlement, psychological counselling line, and offering appropriate support to employees who are experiencing stress outside work. Company-specific pension plan for employees Official measures promoting career mobility More Information • The company has implemented measures to promote internal career mobility. • Some examples of measures include objectively promoting talent based on ability and potential, developing roadmaps for key talent in the company, continuing professional training, and encouraging employees to broaden their range of technical skills. Provision of skills development training More Information • The company has implemented vocational training and instruction, which include skills development training, education paid for in whole or in part by the company, with the goal to provide opportunities for career advancement (Source: Global Reporting Initiative G3). Specific measures implemented for the integration of More Information persons with disabilities •The company has implemented specific measures to integrate disabled persons. Guidance •Some measures to integrate disabled persons in the workplace include assistive and adaptive technology, e.g. new computer software programs, assistive listening devices, adaptive skills training and wheelchair accessible transportation. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 14/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:RESULTS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Standard reporting on labor practices & human rights More Information issues •There is evidence of formal reporting implemented regarding both labor and human rights issues from the company supporting documentation, including key performance indicators (KPIs), statistical figures or associated concrete actions. Guidance •Reporting items are standard in terms of quality and quantity, do cover the main issues, are meaningful enough, and are regularly updated. KPIs may include (but are not limited to): accident frequency and severity rates, the percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, skills development trainings, and percentage of employees trained on discrimination issues. Comprehensive reporting on labor practice and human rights issues will additionally have KPIs reported in a formal public document available to stakeholders, and will be in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines or other external CSR reporting standards. Click on the link below for ECOVADIS HOW­TO GUIDES — Developing a Labor Practices & Human Rights Report. Reports no lost-time accidents pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 15/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 8. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES (FBP) The fair business practice theme focuses primarily on corruption and bribery issues, but also takes into account anti-competition and responsible information management depending on the industry of operation. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor Practices LAB 70 Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 WEIGHT of the Theme FB 1 out of 8 -> 12% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other the company industry of operation and country EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: of operation(s). The theme weights influence the are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 resulting overall score. suppliers to compare with. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 16/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP No policies on anti-corruption & bribery More Information •There is no formal policy on anti­corruption & bribery issues in the supporting documentation provided by the company. Guidance •Standard anti­corruption and bribery policies outline qualitative objectives/commitments in a formal policy document, e.g. Code of Ethics/Anti-Corruption Policy. Such policies also include organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Click on the link below for ECOVADIS HOW­TO GUIDES — Developing a Business Ethics Policy. Policy on client data protection & privacy More Information • The company has issued a formal policy that integrates commitments and/or operational objectives on respect on data protection and privacy issues. • There are at least qualitative objectives/commitments with specificities on the main issues. • Data protection and privacy relates to areas that include building audit trails to ensure data protection, encrypting data on a hard disk drive, and training employees on data protection. • The policy might also incorporate some of the following elements: scope of application, allocation of responsibilities, quantitative objectives, and review mechanisms. • The policy is contained in a dedicated policy document or in a dedicated section of a larger purpose document such as a Code of Ethics/Conduct. Endorsement of external initiative covering main CSR issues [ i.e. GRANDDE ] FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP No information on measures regarding anti-corruption & More Information bribery • No company declaration and no evidence within the supporting documentation on concrete actions implemented to minimize the risks of corruption & bribery. Guidance • Some examples of actions on this topic include: manager training on anti-corruption policy, implementation of a whistleblowing procedure or regular internal compliance audits on corruption and bribery issues. Click on the link below for ECOVADIS HOW­TO GUIDES — Developing a Whistleblower Procedure. Measures to protect customer or client data from unauthorized access or disclosure Measure on customer or client data protection and More Information confidentiality [ e.g. third party audit ] •The company has implemented measures to ensure it protects customer data and privacy. Guidance •Some potential examples of measures include building audit trails to ensure data protection, installing a firewall and viruschecking on computers, employee confidentiality clauses, training employees on protection of personal data, encrypting data on a hard disk drive, and securely removing all personal information before disposing of old computers. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 17/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 9. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT (SUP) The sustainable procurement theme focuses on both social and environmental issues within the company supply chain. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor Practices LAB 70 Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 WEIGHT of the Theme SUP 1 out of 8 -> 12% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other the company industry of operation and country EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: of operation(s). The theme weights influence the are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 resulting overall score. suppliers to compare with. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP No supporting documentation on sustainable More Information procurement policies • There is no formal policy on sustainable procurement issues in the supporting documentation provided by the company. Guidance • A standard sustainable procurement policy includes commitments and/or operational objectives on all material sourcing risks the company faces. It is communicated to internal and external stakeholders through a formal dedicated document. A standard policy contains qualitative objectives/commitments specific to those issues. Click on the link below for ECOVADIS HOW­TO GUIDES — Developing a Sustainable Procurement Policy. Endorsement of external initiative covering main CSR issues [ i.e. GRANDDE ] SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Some supply from companies employing mostly disabled people (e.g. sheltered workshop) pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 18/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 10. The 360° WATCH: stakeholders' information The 360° is a web based tool to collect stakeholders insight on a company‘s CSR approach and impacts. A corporate stakeholder is a party that can affect or be affected by the actions of the company and the achievement of its objectives (i.e. employees, clients, suppliers). Note: If a strength or weakness is activated on the 360°, this is an indicator that the 360° has had an impact on the score. Only legitimate stakeholder sources are selected: Governmental organizations (i.e. government environmental protection administrations, anti-trust agencies, customers protection agencies) CSR networks and initiatives Trade unions and employers’ organizations International organizations (i.e. UN, ILO, UNEP, …) NGO’s (i.e. Greenpeace, Clean Clothes Campaign, Transparency international, UFC, …) Research institutes and reputable press (CSR Asia, Blacksmith Institute, …) pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 19/20 EcoVadis Assessment for CENTRE DETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE TECHNOLOGIQUE EN AEROTHERMIQUE ET MOTEURS (CERTAM) May 2016 11. SPECIFIC COMMENTS Specific comments are key points which indicate some specific characteristics of the company CSR evaluation and will help to better understand the company’s performance. Despite the company implementing measures regarding the main CSR issues, policies are not formalized or are only basic. Some supporting documents were considered too outdated to be included in this evaluation The company is not included in any compliance-related watch lists or sanction lists. Since the last evaluation, the overall score has increased thanks to the implementation of additional policies. Since the last evaluation, the overall score has increased thanks to the implementation of additional measures. pascal raymond ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 30/05/2017 08:50:26 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report May 2016 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 20/20
