COP FOR YEAR 2017 POLARIS INDUSTRIAL PARKS – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STATEMENT OF CONTINUOUS SUPPORT: Polaris International is pleased to confirm and reiterate its support of all United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and antiCorruption. Polaris International with its policies and strategies, is promoting industrial development and economic performance while adopting the highest standards of environmental protection and improving the quality of broad Egyptian industrial community through dedicated development initiatives. *Polaris International is aware of the importance of creating an environmentally developed industrial area to assist in the global battle against climate change SDG 13. In this spirit, Polaris International environmental protection is main key of its corporate pillars is using advanced Solar system to reduce carbon print . * In year 2016 , Polaris International has constantly exhorted extra implementations and investments for irrigation system in the park for water consumptions SDG 12 . * A quality and facility personnel is responsible to monitor environmental facilities and assure its accurate operation (Water measuring – electrical consumptions – maintenance ….) . * Still “WEF “ Polaris International SR arm is promoting UNGC principles throughout its activities : Polaris has supported WEF in its initiative for orphans training and employment by promoting the initiative via its investors to provide orphans descent jobs for sustainable life taking into consideration SDG.3, 4,5,10 –WEF Engaged more than 10 new members to be participants . While operating and dealing with stakeholders WEF is promoting UNGC principles . WEF has submitted its COE mentioning its continuous support for UNGC . *2015-2017 Report enclosed at the end of the report* * Polaris is still supporting Gender equality promoting SDG 5 . * Talent Development department is still creating advance systems to handle all aspects related employees taking into considerations the main 2 principles human rights and labor practice (complaints – fair evaluation – working conditions – training and development ) * For third year the employee evaluation system has been implemented that works in depth with transparency taking into consideration new monitoring aspects that commit to UNGC principles and moreover with motivation system to protect the labor rights. Communication on Progress 2017 2 *Polaris International is providing to its employees and stakeholders a formal framework – guidelines, actions to be taken , monitoring its operations to ensure the business as a whole complies with all applicable antitrust laws. Finally, as we are totally supporting the UNGC, Polaris has been selected as steering committee member in UNGC Egypt. As being in UNGC Egypt network steering committee Polaris and WEF are always supporting UNGC Egypt network. Sincerely, Osman Arikan Communication on Progress 2017 3 Communication on Progress: UNGC principles Scope of Policies and ACTIONS TAKEN SDGs Business Governance Influence Human Rights Principle1 Employees – Internal Training and Investorspolicies and awareness for staff Businesses contractorscode of and stakeholders should support ethics on human rights and respect aspects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Employees – Investorscontractors Principle 2: Employees – Internal HR policies and Human Rights Investorspolicies and procedures contractors code of declared and Business should ethics developed . make sure they are not Talent development department created complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Employees – Internal Training to Labor Investorspolicies and employees for labor contractorscode of aspects then Follow Businesses ethics up with monitoring should uphold and assessment the freedom of Communication on Progress 2017 4 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Employees , Internal No investorspolicies and The elimination Case of contractors code of of all forms of ethics forced or forced and compulsory compulsory labor in Polaris labor Principle 5 EmployeesInternal No case of child Investorspolicies and labor abolition in The effective Contractors code of Polaris as it is clearly abolition of child ethics declared from the labour beginning Principle 6 Employees – Internal Clearly declared Investors policies and with updated The elimination contractors code of agreement with of discrimination ethics recruitment in agencies respect of Updated interview employment and system for occupation employment Environment Internal policies and code of ethics Communication on Progress 2017 5 Principle 7 Employees – Internal As we are first Businesses Investors – policies and environmental should support a contractorscode of industrial park an precautionary Governmental ethics ongoing approach to university (Cairo environmental environmental University policies is applied challenge Water consumption Quality and monitoring system is applied Principle 8 and EmployeesInternal Continuous Principle 9 Investorspolicies and approaches and communities code of advices supplied to Undertake ethics develop more initiatives to industrial areas . promote greater environmental responsibility Anti-corruption Principle 10 Employees – Internal Give training on investorspolicies and ethical behaviors to Businesses contractorscode of its stakeholders and should work communities ethics promoting for against importance of corruption in all integrity on its forms, economic and SR including extortion and bribery Communication on Progress 2017 6 POLARIS PROJECTS Polaris is keen on ensuring that all of our project are sustainable and that they aren’t just for profit but they’re also creating sustainable communities. All of our business projects are not just for profit but they are also sustainable and that the neighboring communities are being improved. Polaris International Industrial Parks : PIIP has established and signed the 1st licensing agreement with the Industrial Development Authority (IDA) on 02/10/2007 with an area of 2 Million m². PIIP is the first and foremost industrial development companies not only in Egypt but also in the region partnered by SIAC Holding and Mr. Mohamad Kassem with Polaris Dis Yatirimlar of Turkey. PIIP aiming to benefit the experience of the Public – Privet partnership to enable Egyptian economy play a stronger role in global markets. PIIP offers outstanding infrastructure, supported with quality services through professional teams and continuous support to manage customer needs. This first project, on an area of 2.000.000 m² of land, was completed and successfully sold out to multinational and local investors within 3 years from its inception. Numerous reputable local and multinational companies, such as Procter&Gamble, General Motors-Mansour Automotive, Scip, Juhayna, Edita and Holdipharma & many other investor invested in the park. Polaris Al Zamil Industrial Park PZIP Company is a joint venture between Polaris International Industrial Parks which is a Turkish-Egyptian shareholder structure and Zamil-Holding which is a global investment company based in Saudi Arabia. Communication on Progress 2017 7 The project reflects the same quality in terms of planning, infra structure, available facilities and general services, yet enhanced with the experience of PIIP. Since the signature date until today, PZIP has successfully managed to develop one of the most functional private industrial park developments in Egypt. As of today one third of the land area have been sold to investors such as Logistica E2E Services, Hayat Egypt, Gulsan Textile and BIM Retailing Markets two of which have started production while the other two are in the process of starting construction. Meanwhile infrastructure works for all remaining phases of this project is going to be finalized by first quarter of 2013. Suez Canal Zone Project Polaris International signed a contract with the Chairman & the Board of Directors of Suez Canal Economic Authority Admiral / Mohaab Mameesh in attandance of H.E Abdul Fattah Al Sisi, Egypt President in the World Youth Forum in Sharm El Sheikh to develop 5.5 SQM. The overall project aims to boost Egypt’s economy by creating jobs and better working environments. In addition to that, the area allocated will be utilized for businesses to expand there as well as work on bettering the neighboring areas. Communication on Progress 2017 8 Bosla Project: Bosla is an SME incubator we are the go to place for any SME to scale up and lay its ground work. Bosla provided and array of services that range from Legal establishment, Government interference, Administrative advice to locations, infrastructure services and management capability. Bosla also offers SME a wide range of business suits that cater to all SMEs be it a newly established one to an already existing SME looking to scale up. Bosla is about creating a business community where people can enjoy where they work and who they work with & giving a positive impact on your clients, uses clustering of work areas around a common core, creates a pleasant working environment, facilitates efficient work flow, we provides efficient, productive work areas. Communication on Progress 2017 9 COMMUNICATION ON ENG AGEMENT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Mr. Secretary General, Work Environment Foundation is pleased and honored to confirm and reiterate its support of all United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and anti-Corruption. We also confirm our pledge towards participating in the UNGC activities, specialized initiatives as well as partnership projects Sincerely , Osman Arikan General Secretary Communication on Progress 2017 10 WHO WE ARE: In 2012 Polaris International Parks “ first Environmental industrial park in Egypt “ decided to raise its Corporate Social Responsibility -CSR initiative in the Egyptian Market through its foundation WEF (Work Environment Foundation). HOW WE STARTED: In order to start right and making a real difference in community development, Polaris started its market research about how can its initiative make a real impact. In order to Create better working conditions and developing economic through human development. Communication on Progress 2017 11 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COE) How WEF Applies the 10 Principles:  WEF is the only foundation that is allocated in environmental park (committed to environmental procedures in park )  Training and awareness for staff on UNGC principles  Internal policies and code of ethics are announced and monitored.  Participating with a third party medical insurance company to provide employees on all levels with applicable medical benefits(no discrimination).  Child labor is prohibited.  Recruitment at WEF is neutral, and open for all with no discrimination of Gender ,sex, religion and depends only on competencies and efficiency.  Evaluation system is applied with no favoritism or discrimination .  Shift to electronic treatment of enquiries, minimizing the number of brochures printed and suppressing their postage  Installation of water tanks, eliminating the usage of bottled mineral water  Eliminating the usage of plastic cups. Glasses are used  Eliminating printing documents (black and colored ) all correspondences and reports are by e-mails . As we submit materials during training (it was printed before) we started in many projects submitting the material by flash disks . Communication on Progress 2017 12  Water consumptions Foundation is cleaned with water usage only 2 days / week instead of daily (keeping its hygiene).  WEF main activities is to train and make full awareness on ethical behaviors to be a life style accordingly it is a full support of anti-corruption .  WEF chooses it is stakeholders carefully while operating (bids – tendering ) requirements HOW WEF ENGAGES WITH THE UN GLOBAL COMPAC T NETWORK EGYPT:  WEF Has been working on attracting new participants to the UN Global Compact through our outreach efforts and awareness raising by: o By adding slides in our WEF presentation to promote UNGC principles . o Promoting UNGC through our stakeholders and projects.  Participating in Global Compact events.  Finally, Polaris International has been nominated for Business for Peace year 2016 because of its CSR foundation WEF activities. Communication on Progress 2017 13 OUR ACTIVITIES WEF has a fundamental belief in the integration of the SDGs in all of our activists and as of September 2015 we began fully incorporating the SDGs. MISR EL-KHEIR PROJECTS: Our journey with Misr El Kheir started when WEF has been awarded as best technical and financial offer for Nurses Character building tender. The project was meant for 500 nurses and due to its success, it has been extended to reach 998 nurses with total training hours 44910 hours covering 4 governorates. Followed by a project to provide training for MEK in the area of Illegal migration where it worked on building the esteem of individuals in poor area and help re-evaluate their considerations for illegal migration. Finally collaboratively we have worked on an initiative of decreasing the illegal immigration of youth in Fayoum and Menya. Communication on Progress 2017 14 SDGs covered by the projects: EDITA PROJECTS Our cooperation with Edita “main stakeholders started in 2014 with proposal of 300 blue collar training , after achievements, trust gained and we have reached 1300 blue collars &engineers with total training hours 20800 , still our cooperation is proceeding with more culture changes in Edita environment . The cooperation progressed further with another project where they wanted to initiate a cultural awareness project titled “‫“ ”قريتلك لك‬I read for you” where they helped individuals in areas by reading for them and enforcing their sense of belonging by reinforcing their sense of Culture. From that stemmed a sub project titled “‫”انت البطل‬ “You’re the Hero” where they helped raise the awareness on health issues by creating new material to serve the difficulties in transferring the knowledge. SDGs covered by the projects: BLUE MOON The Agricultural sector is an important and vital sector in Egypt. ATS is funded project by blue moon and WEF as a social responsibility, trained more than 600 young men and women from small farmers in 10 schools in Beheira, Luxor, Qena, Aswan. The training lasted 9 days in each governorate . The aim of training was to develop their skills, raise awareness about positive work ethics, and the importance of the agricultural sector to the Egyptian economy. Finally, we motivate the sense of social responsibility within and they have a great role in our community. Communication on Progress 2017 15 SDGs covered by the projects: GALLERY Communication on Progress 2017 16 Communication on Progress 2017 17 Communication on Progress 2017 18
