COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016/2017 Trg žrtava fašizma 14, Zagreb 10000 www.kopun.hr Implementing UN Global compact principles Global compact participant since 2011 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that in the year 2016/2017, KOPUN & Kopun Ltd., Zagreb, reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Ethical and environmental considerations are fully integrated into our business model. Treating colleagues, partners and clients as well as environments in which we work with respect, was the core of the business philosophy of the founders of our company. In our Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Stanko Kopun Dubravka Kopun Managing Director Managing partner 1|Page 2. About KOPUN i Kopun d.o.o. Consulting company KOPUN & Kopun, (Ltd) was established in the year 1990, when the beginnings of private initiative in Croatia. We are a completely private and completely independent company. The consulting activity covers the area of: o Accounting/payroll o Tax consulting o Audit of annual financial statements o Forensic accounting o commercial and labour law, as well as o setting up an organization, restructuring. KOPUN & Kopun d.o.o. is the only Croatian member firm of Nexia International (leading worldwide network of independent accounting firms, providing clients with national and international audit, accounting, tax and advisory services in a cohesive, personal and customized manner), with its main office in London, including more 24.100 staff from 110 countries. Our associates are recognized professors from the appropriate faculties, engineers (one among them is a member of the International Academy of Productive Mechanical Engineering (CIRP) with its headquarters in Davos); economists; analysts etc. 3. Our approach In February 2011, KOPUN & Kopun d.o.o. signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy – where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: o People (employees); o Society (locally); o Society (globally). In this connection implementing our initiative has been made in two stages: o implementing initiatives to ensure that all employees understood UN basic principles and to ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solution throughout the organization; o Second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives outside the Company, i.e. toward society – locally and globally. 2|Page 4. Contents of CSR policy The first set of CSR initiatives, which made sense in the context of our organization, have been integrating, implementing and promoting socially responsible behavior throughout the organization and, through its policies and practices. Initiatives concerning human(labour rights), environment, fair operating practices, community involvement and development and anti corruption/money laundering have already been addressed. 4.1 Donations and youth education Small as we may be, trying to understand the needs of the community in which we operate is certainly one of the fundamental values on which we are trying to build a better society. We believe charitable contributions and donations will always remain a part of our social responsibility policy. Areas for granting support are education and social welfare. Education of young people is one of the projects our company has been involved since the begining, each year Kopun & Kopun gives out scholarships to students in needs. In 2016., special project for educating youth in elementary schools on drug abuse prevention, has been supported by Kopun & Kopun. 4.2 Employee/labour standards/a safe place to work The company is commited and highly aware towards safety and health working environment. It has been scientifically proven that people who have a friendly and pleasant working environment live longer. Therefore our company made the effort to make Kopun & Kopun the most pleasant working environment possible through our HR department combining employees in teams that work great together. Our company commits to grant each employee the opportunity to gain the knowledge required for her/his work position either through company internal educational program of external channels. We provide a work environment free of harassment or any type of discrimination as well as healthy and safe work environment. Also larger investments have been made throughout 2016. into further expanding the workplace and providing even bigger and more pleasant working evironment. 3|Page 4.2.1. Training and Education Our HR activities are based also on improving employee competencies to allow each employee ro realize their personal/professional potentials. Internal and external trainings on new technologies, new languages, professional knowledge have been conducted during 2016. In 2017/2018., our plan is to further use a performance evaluation with clearly defined targets to regularly evaluate employee performance thus rewarding them properly and enhance their personal sense of achievment. 4.3 Anti-corruption/money laundering and terrorism finance act Kopun&Kopun promotes zero tolerance approach to corruption. Anti-corruption policy is a vital component of our firm philosophy and will continue to educate and promote values and attitudes through our partners to resist it. The acts of corruption degrade the society and potentially ruin small enterprises and deprive people of their human rights to health education and security. The firm will continue to make assessments of every partner through act on money laundering and terrorism financing. Kopun&Kopun provides no financial or any in-kind political contributions. No fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations were recorded during the reporting period. 4.4 The environment/Energy Then environmental impact of a smaller business association and our scope for reducing the carbon footprint is smaller in scale than in many other industries. Even so, we find that this is no excuse not to make an effort, so we consider the protection of environment and responsible use of resources as a duty to the present and future generations.. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has found that recycling causes 35% less water pollution and 74% less air pollution than making virgin paper. We have therefore adopted a green policy in 2010., which is based on: o use of recycled resources of conducting business; o use of the technology that is highly energy efficient; o reducing the water footpring through using non-chemical cleaning products o recycling paper and plastic 4|Page Our main goal remains implementation of „paperless office“ . Due to this goal, during 2013. our company invested in data management software as well as widescreen monitors for our accounting and payroll department in order to reduce printouts in our company as well as within our customers. In 2016, 20% of our clients changed to paperless accounting programme. Our employees meet annualy and discuss in order to find additional ways how to improve our environmental activities. As most of our business is based on accounting and auditing services, we see it that out biggest possibility in reducing CO2 emissions is through education of our clients about the use and implementation of „paperless office“ and engaging in activities on environment protection. 4.4. The working environment and health of the employees KOPUN & Kopun Ltd. believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee on regular weekly office meetings. We have conducted a work place assessment, due to which we try to improve the satisfaction of our employees. Our goal is to have a high rate of employee satisfaction (with high employee retention rate) and low sickness absence. In having a good working environment, it is very important to have a good health. A bad working environment affects the health of the individual and vice versa – i.e. both have an impact on employee well-being and motivation. 5|Page Some of the initiatives we have implemented thus aim at promoting and protecting our employee’s physical well-being. The employee rights therefore include home working, ensuring ergonomic work place, ensuring needed working clothing, and annual social activities. We believe that constant dialogue with employees is the best way of securing a good working environmental and preventing stress. Due to this, management is responsible of regularly monitoring employee’s well-being. 5. Future initiatives For 2017. we plan to focus further on area of human rights and environment. We are planning to: o redefine our donations policy and further engage into charitable contributing o actively work on increasing employees health and wellbeing; o actively inspire our clients to implement CSR initiatives. o use CSR reporting into financial statements o further educate and strengthen individuals and partners in ethical decision-making o actively work on reducing emissions and water and air footpring; Contact Info Kopun i Kopun A: Trg zrtava fasizma 14, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia T: +385/1/4610294 F: +385/1/4610295 E: info@kopun.hr W: www.kopun.hr 6|Page
