Fazer Group's Corporate Responsibility Review 2016 1 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Welcome to Fazer's Corporate Responsibility Review Fazer’s Corporate Responsibility Review 2016 describes Fazer’s ongoing work to develop its businesses and operations in a sustainable manner, with attention to the social and environmental impact of the Group. This review provides information about Fazer’s stakeholder engagement, research cooperation, social initiatives and environmental commitments. It shows Fazer as a part of the community, creating value for shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers and consumers, as well as for society as a whole. The report first introduces Fazer’s approach to corporate responsibility and then goes on to describe the goals, accomplishments and challenges within the five areas of the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Programme: Running business, For health and well-being, People matter, Fair value chain and Part of the environment. 03 Group President's review 04 Group overview 05 Fazer's approach 14 Running business 18 For health and well-being 23 People matter 28 Fair value chain 33 Par t of the environment 2 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Focus on food After celebrating Fazer’s 125th anniversary, it is a good products need to be future-proof in order to meet moment to look back on the steps taken. It is also important them – whether they involve new snacking solutions to consider the road ahead of us: how do we exceed our or increased demand for plant-based foods. While customer expectations in the future? As a food company, renewing our business, we continue to work with we need to understand the role of food and the megatrends quality, food safety, the environment and occupational which affect it, from raw material availability to changing health and safety in everything we do. dietary habits. Based on that understanding, we can improve the ways in which we produce and consume food. Economic, In 2016, we took important steps in our work. Fazer environmental and social impacts from food occur in the Confectionery increased the share of responsible cocoa in cultivation and production phase, while households influence 2016 to 85 per cent and in the beginning of 2017 to 100 per through their dietary choices. Food matters. cent. Fazer Food Services managed to decrease food waste and trained chefs on vegetable use. Fazer Bakery developed The United Nations’ 2030 Agenda, which includes 17 a technological innovation for producing low-FODMAP rye Sustainable Development Goals, will shape national bread and launched new healthy breads. In WWF’s Palm Oil development plans over the next 15 years. Whether Buyers Scorecard 2016, which measures palm oil purchase it is combating climate change, supporting sustainable sustainability, Fazer received full points. Unfortunately, consumption habits, ending poverty or protecting despite all our efforts, we did not reach our target for biodiversity on land and in the seas, food and agriculture occupational safety. Our work continues. are at the very core of the 2030 Agenda. Food is on the agenda also in the European Commission’s Circular Economy With this report, we express Fazer Group’s continued Package, in which food waste prevention is an integral part. support for the UN Global Compact and renew our The package aims to stimulate Europe’s transition towards a commitment to the initiative. circular economy, which could boost global competitiveness, foster sustainable growth and generate new jobs. The core of Fazer's corporate responsibility is the Christoph Vitzthum responsible offering, which supports people’s everyday President & CEO well-being, sustainable use of the planet’s resources and Fazer Group shared value in society. We focus on food and we invest in the development and renewal of our business as well WE SUPPORT as in research. People’s expectations will change, and our 3 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Group over view Fazer Bakery Fazer Confectionery Fazer Food Services Fazer is an international family-owned company established in 1891. Fazer's mission is to create taste sensations. Fazer's operations are based on the company's values: passion for customer, quality excellence and team spirit. 14,876 Employees NET SALES, M€ 1,800 1,656.9 1,695.7 1,647.7 1,576.1 1,603.5 Business areas and units 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 Fazer Mills Fazer Cafés 600 400 200 Fazer Bakery 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FINLAND Fazer Baker y Fazer Confectioner y FINLAND 580 Restaurants Fazer Food Ser vices Others Fazer Confectionery 15 Bakery shops 41 In-store bakeries OPERATING PROFIT, M€ 15 Cafés 120 Fazer Food Services NORWAY 100.4 SWEDEN 100 87.7 SWEDEN 83.3 79.6 79.4 RUSSIA 268 Restaurants 80 ESTONIA 68.6 Fazer Mills 34 Bakery shops 60 49.0 52.7 43.3 44.3 NORWAY 40 DENMARK LATVIA 120 Restaurants 20 Fazer Cafés 0 LITHUANIA DENMARK 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 155 Restaurants Operating profit Offices Operating profit before amortisation of goodwill 4 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fazer's corporate responsibility approach For health and well-being How we grow, produce and consume food has a significant impact on the environment and on society. Fazer’s Choices based on knowledge and corporate responsibility vision is to create responsible personal preferences bring balance taste sensations. The Group strives to improve people’s and well-being. Enjoy Fazer your way. everyday well-being and increase the sustainable use of the planet’s resources. Fazer offers people a variety of products and services that enable them to choose a healthy and N S I B LE O F F E sustainable lifestyle. With its persistent sustainability work, S PO RIN Fazer has earned a reputation as a responsible company, Running RE G People which increases the Group’s brand value. business matter Corporate responsibility is embedded in Fazer’s corporate We bring People make culture and identity. It is part of everyday work in Fazer’s prosperity to Fazer happen. businesses and it is acknowledged in business development the company Responsibility vision Fair play with within the Group. Securing long-term business profitability and society. everybody is the basis for Fazer’s corporate responsibility strategy. FAZER FOR working with us. Responsibility enhances profitability. It helps Fazer to reduce RESPONSIBLE TASTE costs through the effective use of resources. A focus on SENSATIONS well-being can increase productivity in the workplace and help Fazer to attract new talent. Close cooperation and the Group’s responsibility programme help Fazer identify and mitigate risks related to raw material sourcing and ensure the availability of raw materials in the long term. Part of the environment Fair value United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) chain aim to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice and tackle climate change by 2030. Companies are encouraged to We rely on the resources We operate responsibly participate in reaching them. As an internationally operating nature gives us. We use and create fair business food company, Fazer recognises its possibilities and role in them responsibly. opportunities throughout promoting these goals, many of which coincide with the the chain we are part of. company’s own sustainability goals. In 2016, the Group has carried out a preliminary assessment of how its current responsibility activities contribute to the realisation of the SDGs. 5 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Business specific focus areas 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Fazer Group has shared corporate responsibility goals towards which its business areas and units work with their own responsibility actions. Each business has certain focus 2016 ION ERY 2017 2018 2019 2020 RESPONSIBLE COCOA VALUE CHAIN EC T NF areas that they emphasise in their strategies. CO ER FAZ All cocoa is traceable and fulfils the criteria of responsible production. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Fazer Confectionery’s primary area of corporate Further development of direct farmer programmes. responsibility is the sourcing of responsibly produced, NE RY TIO quality cocoa. The goal is to ensure the responsible production and traceability of the cocoa sourced by CO NF E C RESPONSIBLE COCOA VALUE CHAIN ZER Fazer, as well as to ensure that the working conditions are FA S All cocoa is traceable and fulfils the criteria of responsible production. ICE SERV FÉS Further development of direct farmer programmes. acceptable throughout the value chain and farming practices are environmentally sustainable. In the beginning of 2017, ER FO ZER F OD CA ERY A IO N RESPONSIBLE FOOD FAZAND FECT Fazer reached an important goal in its cocoa vision: C ON RESPONSIBLE COCOA VALUE CHAIN Vegetable use and the sources of sustainable proteins increase. ER now 100 per cent of its cocoa is responsibly produced. FA Z AllFood waste cocoa and seasonality is traceable taken and fulfils the strongly into criteria of account. production. responsible IC ES Further development of direct farmer programmes. V SER FÉS Fazer Food Services places great emphasis on providing FO ER FAZ OD R CA E RESPONSIBLE FOOD responsible food services for restaurant guests. Fazer FAZAND ND Vegetable use and the sources of sustainable proteins increase. aims to increase the use of vegetables and decrease meat E R YA Food waste and seasonality taken strongly into account. K S consumption in order to provide healthy food as well as BA ILL ES ER ZER MERVIC S to reduce environmental impacts. Fazer Food Services Z FA FA D S AFÉ SUSTAINABLE FARMING works continuously to reduce food waste and incorporate Z FO ER ER FAZ O C RESPONSIBLE FOOD Grain vision to minimise nutrient load and to promote best agricultural practices. FA AND seasonality into its offering. Vegetable use and the sources of sustainable proteins increase. A ND Food waste and seasonality taken strongly into account. ERY BAK MILLS Fazer Bakery and Fazer Mills focus strongly on sustainable farming. Fazer has developed a Grain Vision to promote ER ER FAZ FAZ SUSTAINABLE FARMING best agricultural practices and reduce the nutrient load Grain vision to minimise nutrient load and to promote best agricultural practices. generated by farming. The Group engages in active ND YA A KER ILLS cooperation with farmers in order to develop more B ER ER M sustainable practices that benefit the farmers as well as FAZ FAZ SUSTAINABLE FARMING Fazer itself. Grain vision to minimise nutrient load and to promote best agricultural practices. 6 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fazer Baker y Highlights 2016 • Launched healthy breads: e.g. Fazer Root Vegetable Bread and bread for sensitive stomachs • Developed a technological innovation for producing low-FODMAP rye bread • Finalised the Fazer Grain Vision – Sustainable Grain Farming Principles • Improved work safety with e.g. Safety Engineering Programme Way forward 2017 • Launch new products that support well-being • Further develop and implement the Fazer Grain Vision • Continue to develop resource efficiency with waste reduction and energy efficiency targets Key goals • Continued expansion of healthy product offering • Continuous development of sustainable farming and supporting domestic farming • Resource efficiency and reduction of production waste 7 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fazer Confectioner y Highlights 2016 • Increased share of responsible cocoa to 85% • Conducted Human Rights Impact Assessment • Used 92% Segregated palm oil for confectionery products (8% RSPO Mass Balance or RSPO Book & Claim) • Improved work safety 34% (LTAF) from previous year Way forward 2017 • Reached 100% responsible cocoa at the beginning of 2017; continue development of direct programmes with cocoa farmers • Review Fazer's Commitment to Responsible Palm Oil • Continue to develop resource efficiency with waste reduction and energy efficiency targets • Continue to improve work safety Key goals • Constantly improving the traceability and responsibility of raw materials • Advocating portion control and informed decisions • Continuous development of material efficiency • Continuous development of work safety 8 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fazer Food Ser vices Highlights 2016 • Organised waste campaigns to reduce storage and display waste as well as plate waste • Created Nudging Handbook to help restaurants increase vegetable consumption • Increased the number of vegetarian recipes as part of the More Greens initiative • Fazer Food Services’ first units in Sweden were certified to ISO 9001 quality management standard Way forward 2017 • Continue efforts to reduce waste in every stage of the value chain • Strengthen efforts to promote vegetables to increase share of greens • Improve work safety in restaurants Key goals • Continuous efforts to increase the share of vegetables • Continuous development of waste prevention • Advocating a balanced diet that supports well-being • Ensuring food quality and safety through traceability of raw materials 9 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Corporate responsibility management at Fazer Corporate responsibility is an integrated aspect of all Fazer’s Fazer’s corporate responsibility work is guided by the Fazer Group has signed the UN Global Compact initiative. activities. The roles and responsibilities of the corporate Corporate Responsibility Policy, the Human Rights Policy, In addition, specific policies guide Fazer’s operations, for responsibility team, network and leadership forum have the QEHS Policy, governance practice, operating principles example, in marketing, HR, and anti-bribery and competition been clearly defined, and the ultimate responsibility lies with and the Ethical Principles, which are based on the ten law compliance. In 2016, Fazer published a new Group-wide the Board of Directors and the Group Management Team. international principles of the UN Global Compact. QEHS Policy and the Group’s new QEHS long term plan. Managing corporate responsibility BOARD OF DIRECTORS Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Approves ethical principles Leadership Forum Network GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM Ensures alignment within the Ensures corporate responsibility Approves policies and objectives Group; defines Group-level alignment within Fazer Group Group President: ultimate responsibility strategies, policies, guidelines, Ensures the effective use of Group’s SVP of Communications and Branding: responsible for corporate responsibility targets and positions resources Assesses, monitors and develops Shares the knowledge, know-how HEAD OF FUNCTION corporate responsibility topics and market views in different Approves instructions within the Group countries and businesses Ensures the agreed actions are BUSINESS AREAS AND BUSINESS UNITS implemented Implement corporate responsibility programme, strategic outlines, and set targets and objectives Escalates and prepares issues to Set corporate responsibility focus areas the right decision forums Follow instructions, practices and operating models CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TEAM Develops corporate responsibility vision, strategy and programme, and supports its implementation 10 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Transparent communication and stakeholder engagement An active and continuous dialogue with all stakeholders – with regulatory and political changes and establish a strong Fazer has identified its most important stakeholder groups from customers and consumers to shareholders, employees relationship based on transparency and trust. As a part of and has outlined several engagement methods. and suppliers – is of the utmost importance to Fazer. It people’s everyday lives and of the society at large, Fazer helps Fazer to identify local and global trends, keep up values greatly the feedback it receives from its stakeholders. STAKEHOLDER CHANNEL OF DIALOGUE Consumers Customer service, surveys, restaurant and café materials, websites, social media, packaging, visits Customers Meetings and cooperation, newsletters, customer feedback systems, customer events, websites, social media Shareholders Regular contact, meetings and events, Annual Review, Corporate Responsibility Review, tertiary reports, website, extranet Performance Management Process, continuous communication between managers and employees, induction, training, occupational health and safety Employees management system, personnel events, personnel surveys, Fazer Way Helpline, intranet and other internal channels, theme days, Corporate Responsibility Review Meetings, contracts, supplier requirements, supplier assessments, follow-up actions, partnerships, research, continuous collaboration between sourcing Suppliers managers and suppliers NGOs and local communities Memberships, partnerships, joint projects and initiatives, websites, social media, questionnaires, Corporate Responsibility Review Universities and research institutes Partnerships, joint R&D projects, knowledge sharing, donations, thesis and job opportunities for students, lectures, excursions Healthcare professionals Knowledge sharing, events, lectures Media Media releases and events, interviews, websites, social media, visits Authorities and governments Regular contact, meetings, memberships, seminars, work groups Start-ups Opportunities and support through Vertical Accelerator and hackathons 11 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Par tnerships and sponsoring Shared partnerships Lithuania • Baltic Sea Action Group • The Order of Malta Relief Organisation • Cooperation with WCF to support the Biéby village in Ivory Coast Russia • EAT cooperation • SOS Children’s villages • Sport Orienteering Program for Schools Finland • Charity events in the Russian Museum and the Hermitage • SOS Children’s villages for children with disabilities • Nenäpäivä charity campaign • Donating bread to NGOs (Red Cross, etc.), and • Ketjureaktio bicycling campaign with the Finnish Red Cross social care centres • Lasten Liike • Pro-Baltic Sea carbonated spring water company Dropp Estonia • Research suppor t to University of Helsinki and Hanken • Estonian Association of Big • Suppor t to refugee centres Families • Cooperation with WWF Finland to protect biodiversity • Food aid: Veikko ja Lahja Hurstin Laupeudentyö, Vantaan ruoka-aputerminaali, Tampereen RuokaNysse • 125 Oppor tunities for Working Life initiative together with Helsinki Deaconess Institute Sweden • Campaign to support SOS Children’s villages’ work in Ecuador • Stockholms Stadsmission • Pink Ribbon and the Breast Cancer fund Latvia • Cooperation with Ogre, Kegums, Lielvarde and Ikslile municipalities to donate bread for families and elderly people with low income • Donating bread to Latvian Red Cross shelter Gaizins • Latvia Olympians Social Fund 12 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fazer's corporate responsibility programme N D C O MM U K EH O L D E RS A NITIE G STA S GIN TRANSPARENCY G A Fazer’s corporate responsibility vision, strategy and EN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT NUTRITION programme are based on a thorough assessment of PORTIONING TASTE SENSATIONS stakeholder views and on a deep understanding of the evolving demands of consumers as well as the Group’s business strategy. The corporate responsibility programme is PROFITABLE SAFETY structured around five strategic focus areas, which guide the BUSINESS For health and well-being company’s operations: AND GROWTH Choices based on knowledge EQUALITY and personal preferences bring • Running business NEW OPPORTUNITIES balance and well-being. Enjoy Fazer your way. • For health and well-being EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING • People matter • Fair value chain STAKEHOLDER Running business People matter DEVELOPMENT • Part of the environment VALUE We bring People make Fazer prosperity to the happen. Fair play with company and everybody working IC society. with us. LEADERSHIP BRAND VALUE RESPONSIBLE UN OFFERING AN OMM FAIR TREATMENT DH CONTINUITY TRANSPARENT C Part of the environment Fair value chain UMA N RIGH ENERGY We rely on the resources We operate responsibly SUPPLIER TS EFFICIENCY and create fair business COOPERATION nature gives us. We use them responsibly. opportunities throughout the chain we are part of. RAW MATERIALS N WASTE IO CA AT RAW MATERIAL LP D LOSS ORIGIN RIN AN CIP PR O WATER USE TRACEABILITY LES AC TI HI VE SUSTAINABLE FARMING QUALITY ET DI AL OG AWARENESS FOOD SAFETY UE 13 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Running business Fazer creates prosperity for the company, stakeholders and the Achievements in 2016: society • Human Rights Impact Assessments carried Goals: out in the Group and Fazer Confectionery • Secure profitable business and growth • Two recognitions for corporate responsibility work in Russia • Identify new business opportunities and savings • Third place in Finland’s Reputation and Trust potential via corporate responsibility survey; positive development of reputation • Manage issues which affect Fazer's reputation in Sweden and Russia • Follow Fazer's ethical principles in all businesses • Economic Value Added was 634 M€ • Secure and increase brand value • Return on equity was 7.6 per cent, a 57.2 per cent increase from 2015 • Bring added value to stakeholders • Paid 43 M€ in taxes and 115 M€ in employer's contributions; collected 156 M€ of VAT, payroll and other taxes Business and corporate • Active stakeholder dialogue responsibility are developed hand in hand Corporate responsibility is an integral part of Fazer’s Fazer regards corporate responsibility work as not only businesses, and the development of sustainability and a responsibility but an opportunity as well. Corporate business go hand in hand. A business focus in corporate responsibility is not a separate goal; it is a part of everyday responsibility matters ensures continuity: when the company business, contributing to the Group’s brand value as well is growing profitably, it has the resources to invest in social as its profitability. All the business units have their own CR and environmental engagement. In a changing business plans, which are based on the areas most relevant to their environment, stakeholder expectations regarding global business focus, and these are implemented in daily work. goals and challenges are higher than before. Keeping the business vital is a prerequisite for reaching those goals and Dialogue with stakeholders – from shareholders to overcoming challenges. employees, consumers, decision-makers and suppliers – is a 14 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 natural part of today’s business, and is becoming increasingly work of every Fazer employee. Fazer signed the UN Global important. Fazer believes in openness, and will continue Compact initiative in 2012 and is committed to following its Stakeholder to increase the transparency of its operations. Fazer’s principles on human rights, labour standards, environment dialogue with decision-makers has been constructive and and anti-corruption. Fazer has established separate statement: the role of regulation is, naturally, important in the food policies for different topics within the ethical principles. All A pioneer industry. Sustainable development is effectively promoted by employees are required to familiarise themselves with the in corporate companies also on a voluntary basis. policies and guidelines that affect their work, and supervisors must assist to ensure that they are understood and taken responsibility enjoys Responsibility ensures availability of into daily work. stakeholders’ key raw materials Fazer’s Compliance function ensures that monitoring suppor t Reconciling between cost management and corporate obligations are fulfilled. Cases of misconduct can be responsibility is not a simple matter. The cost of many raw anonymously reported to supervisors, policy owners, HR, materials is increasing, but the consumer is not prepared to Risk Management, Group Legal or Group CEO, depending What is it that makes corporate reputation so important? pay more for products. Responsible sourcing is, however, on the case. The Fazer Way Helpline is a confidential The answer is the outcome of a good reputation: the best way to secure the availability of high-quality raw telephone and web service through which non-compliance stakeholder support. It is clear that Fazer’s management materials in the long run. Fazer continuously develops its can be reported anonymously 24 hours a day. understands the causal relationship between reputation material efficiency and strives to reduce waste. Cost savings and stakeholder support.The company measures, can also be achieved through energy efficiency. More During 2016, two new potential cases came via Fazer Way understands and manages reputation and its business information on sourcing can be found in the Fair value chain Helpline. Both cases were recorded and investigated by impact in an exemplary manner. section on page 28, and more on waste reduction in the the Group’s Compliance and Security functions. The cases At T-Media, we analyse the business impact of reputation. Environment section on page 33. were related to conflict of interest, disrespectful behaviour We know that perceptions related to corporate at work, theft, noncompliance with internal regulations and responsibility are the second strongest reputation driver safety instructions. One internal investigation is still ongoing; Reputation on excellent level the other case has been investigated internally and the for buying or recommending products and services. Only perceptions related to the price-value relationship are In 2016, the company’s reputation remained on a high necessary measures have been taken. stronger. Our view is that Fazer does pioneering work level in Finland and saw positive development in Sweden in enhancing its corporate responsibility.This naturally and Russia. In Finland, Fazer reached third place in the decreases reputation risks, but it is also an excellent Reputation and Trust survey, improving from its fifth position opportunity to gain even stronger stakeholder support in 2015. Fazer holds an esteemed and cherished position as the company communicates its outstanding efforts and among Finnish consumers, for whom the brand has been a achievements in this area. part of life from childhood. Riku Ruokolahti Ethical business operations Development Director, T-Media Oy Fazer’s ethical principles are based on the company’s values and on the UN Global Compact, and they guide the daily 15 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 United Nations’ goals and TAXES BORNE AND EMPLOYER'S CONTRIBUTIONS, M€ *) Case: principles in focus Income taxes 17.1 Taxes on proper ty 1.2 Recognitions in Russia for social In 2016, human rights were in focus globally and the United Excise duty on confectionery 24.0 Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Employer's contributions 115.3 responsibility and transparency (UNGPs) were actively discussed. Fazer participated in Other taxes 0.4 In 2016, Fazer was chosen by Delovoy Peterburg, an roundtable discussions regarding the topic and carried out influential Russian daily business newspaper, as the most Human Rights Impact Assessments concerning Fazer Group transparent company of the year. Delovoy Peterburg and Fazer Confectionery. Fazer recognised food safety and awards the most effective companies that operate in the health and safety of personnel as the most relevant *) Insurance taxes and energy taxes not included. Russia and contribute to St Petersburg’s image as an areas to its operations. In 2017, assessments will be targeted industrial centre. on Fazer Food Services’ Headquarters and in Fazer’s In addition, Fazer’s work with corporate social operations in Russia. TAXES COLLECTED, M€ responsibility was recognised by the American Chamber Payroll taxes 104.3 of Commerce in Russia. On 13 April 2016, Fazer Russia’s United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs, Managing Director Vladimir Kalyavin received AmCham’s VAT, net 48.3 are a major development in global sustainability work. In Corporate Social Responsibility Award. Other taxes 2.9 2016, Fazer assessed its current ways of contributing to the Fazer is committed to advancing corporate realisation of SDGs. Fazer sees the role of corporations as an responsibility in Russia. important one, as they hold an influential position in society and can participate in steering it into a more responsible direction. Food plays a major part in many of the goals, from reducing environmental impacts to establishing food security and improving health. Consistent QEHS work supports SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY AND RETURN ON EQUITY all responsibility efforts 600 566.1 556.9 30 511.3 494.8 500 472.8 25 While Fazer has many different programmes concentrating 400 20 on different aspects of responsibility work, at the core of it 300 15 all is consistent and persistent QEHS work, which goes on 200 7.8 7.6 10 every day. Quality, environmental impact, health and safety 5.4 3.5 4.8 100 5 are all matters of focus at all Fazer’s sites. They form a solid basis for creating shared value and continue to be developed 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 further on the Group level as well as in the businesses. Shareholder’s equity incl. minority interest, M€ Return on equity (ROE), % 16 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fazer creates stakeholder value Stakeholder The way forward Fazer contributes to society in several ways. It is an • Securing the long-term continuity of the business statement: employer, a taxpayer, a purchaser of goods and services • Understanding the global risks and mitigating their Sustainable and a partner for many organisations and institutions. In 2016, Fazer employed 14,876 people in eight countries. impacts by acting in a sustainable manner development The Group purchased 893 million euros worth of goods • Continuing active stakeholder dialogue creates new • Identifying new business opportunities that support and services from 8,707 suppliers, and paid 43 million sustainable development oppor tunities euros in taxes. During the year Fazer paid 550 million euros in salaries, wages and other indirect employee costs. • Continuing the work with human rights: development The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was of the grievance and remediation processes Fazer’s investments in 2016 amounted to 86 million euros, accepted at the United Nations’ Sustainable Development including the construction of the Fazer Experience visitor • Identifying cost saving possibilities via corporate Summit in September 2015.The aim of the Agenda 2030 centre in Vantaa, Finland, and the expansion of the oat mill responsibility work is to guide global development to a path where people’s in Lahti, Finland. • Deepening the understanding on the UN SDGs and well-being and human rights, economic wealth and societal Fazer’s contribution in the realisation of the goals stability are secured in an environmentally sustainable way. Circular economy In Finland, this agenda is being put into action through the Society’s Commitment to Sustainable Development, With environmental concerns gaining increased attention among others. especially in Europe, circular economy has become a major More than 350 different parties have already joined the trend. Businesses are investigating innovative ways to recycle commitment and almost 100 of them are companies – ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED, M€ 2016 2015 and reuse materials more efficiently. Fazer sees the trend like Fazer.The Agenda 2030 can be seen as a guideline for as an opportunity for increased cooperation between ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED: companies, helping them take sustainable development companies and organisations. The company applies the ideals Customers (net sales, other operating income, into action. We no longer talk about aiding developing 1,613 1,589 of circular economy by, for instance, directing the organic financial income, sales of assets) countries. Instead, the aim is to create new business from waste it produces to biogas production. Suppliers the challenges of sustainable development. Direct purchases -562 -553 To achieve our sustainability goals, we need the private Indirect purhaces -331 -335 sector.The Agenda 2030 allows companies to assess Operative investments -86 -60 their operations and report it in a way that everyone DIVISION OF ECONOMIC VALUE, M€ Added value 634 640 understands. It also helps to identify business opportunities, Personnel 550.4 markets and new partnerships. Companies can trust that ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED: Society 43.2 Personnel (salaries, wages and other indirect these goals will remain on the agendas of the world’s Owners 19.0 -550 -538 governments for a long time. employee costs) Financiers 2.2 Business development 19.0 Society (taxes and donations) -43 -42 Marja Innanen Owners (dividends) -19 -32 Deputy Secretary General, National Commission Financiers (interest and other financial expenses) -2 -2 on Sustainable Development Economic value retained in business 19 26 17 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 For health and well-being A balance of healthy nutrition and moments of indulgence Achievements in 2016: Goals: • Published Fazer’s approach to a balanced • Develop responsible offering diet • Transparently communicate with consumers • Launched the Fazer Brainhow programme and other stakeholders about topics related to to examine the connection between health and well-being nutrition and cognitive ability • Participate in studies on food, health and • Published long-term research and launched sustainability the innovative low-FODMAP rye bread • Created Nudging Handbook to help restaurants increase the share of vegetables Feeling good about your choice • Introduced new bread products and the As the health trend continues and gains more momentum, Baked Health thumb symbol, denoting changes in consumer habits are affecting the entire food benefits to well-being, to respond to the industry. Consumers’ desire to improve their well-being is health trend reflected in their lifestyles and eating habits. Fazer is a food company that serves hundreds of thousands of lunch guests • Piloted and developed further the Lasten every day and provides food products in cafés, restaurants and Liike exercise initiative for school children shops, and thereby regards the health trend as an opportunity to offer balanced and nutritious choices to consumers. Balance is the source of well-being, and people want to have a balance of pleasures in life; moments of indulgence also form part of products. Fazer Confectionery has also introduced smaller impacts both consumers’ well-being and the environment. a balanced diet. In 2016, Fazer published its approach and packaging sizes to control the portion size of sugary treats. During 2016, Fazer Food Services continued the More principles to promote a balanced diet. Enjoyed in moderation, chocolates and sweet pastries can be Greens initiative with several activities. Training material a part of a wholesome diet. was developed to enable full implementation and training Fazer recognises the worldwide problem of increasing was offered for chefs. New delicious vegetarian recipes and obesity and wants consumers to be able to make informed individual decisions about their food choices – and feel More vegetables, less meat vegan options were created. A More Greens campaign was conducted in Fazer Food Services’ restaurants. The number good about them. The company makes this possible by through nudging of vegetarian recipes was increased in the menu database. providing accurate and comprehensive information about Fazer wants to encourage consumers to make healthy The share of vegetables out of all raw materials used in Fazer the ingredients, nutritional content and portion sizes of and sustainable choices. Increasing the share of vegetables Food Services in 2016 was 38 per cent. 18 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 In 2015, Fazer piloted a nudging initiative in Sweden and Finland. Nudging is based on gently influencing consumer Fazer Brainhow – food solutions novelties, is based on a Finnish sourdough innovation that breaks down the FODMAPs, which cause stomach irritation choices by changing, for example, buffet design and the that nourish the mind to many. A clinical trial carried out in cooperation with the presentation of dishes. The customers’ choice is not limited, In spring 2016, Fazer launched Fazer Brainhow, a research and University of Helsinki and Aava Medical Centre confirmed as the menu remains the same; lunch guests are merely business development programme that examines the effects the bread’s suitability to those with sensitive stomachs. guided to a healthier direction. of nutrition on cognitive capacity. The well-being of the brain Thanks to this product innovation, people who get stomach matters not only on an individual level, but on a societal one; symptoms from ordinary rye bread can enjoy the rich taste The learnings from the successful pilots are useful for as the pace of working life becomes faster, the increased of rye and, at the same time, get important fibres. future concept development as well as for building valuable amount of information that needs to be processed quickly competencies for continued responsibility work. Based on the experiences, Fazer created a nudging handbook to can burden the brain. Fazer wants to find out how to reduce that burden. The programme looks into different nutritionLasten Liike aims to inspire 10,000 guide restaurant managers in inspiring customers to make related solutions that can support cognitive performance and children to exercise good choices. brain health in different stages of life. Many children today do not exercise enough during the school day or outside school hours. The Lasten Liike In 2016, the Fazer Brainhow programme focused on (“Children’s movement initiative ), started by Fazer, All about oats research, market analyses and cooperative development. addresses this situation by offering sports activities to Oats were one of the most popular super-foods of Fazer organised the Fazer Brainfood Hack, an international primary school children in Finland. Lasten Liike wants 2016, sparking interest among consumers as well as food event that brought together teams of scientists, developers children to have an enjoyable and exciting time with plenty producers. The nutritious grain is easy on the stomach, and designers to innovate together. Fazer also took part in of movement and play. tasty, and has versatile applications. Fazer sees many the Slush start-up event in Finland by participating in the possibilities in the popular ingredient and invested strongly Fun Academy, an astronaut-themed pop-up kindergarten, The movement aims to expand the scope of existing in oats. The Group acquired the Frebaco mill in Sweden in which Fazer served space-themed, brain-friendly food to activities established by schools, clubs, sports federations and increased the production capacity of the oat mill in adults and children alike. and other actors. During the next three years, the goal of Finland. Fazer Mills in Sweden and Finland have engaged Lasten Liike is to support 500 clubs, reach 10,000 children in product development cooperation with universities in In 2017, the programme will continue with clinical research and provide 700,000 hours of exercise. The overall target order to expand the oats offering, and their combined and prototype testing. The strong scientific basis provides of the movement is to guarantee a hobby for every child in knowledge on Nordic oats has produced innovative an excellent starting point for developing new business connection with the school day. results. opportunities. New product and service launches based on the Fazer Brainhow programme are planned for 2018. Fazer piloted the Lasten Liike programme in ten localities To complement its more traditional oat products, Fazer in 2015 and 2016, with excellent results that encourage developed value-added oat derivatives – oat beta-glucan, oat oil and oat protein – for the global market. The new Low-FODMAP rye bread for the company to continue investing in sports possibilities for children. Lasten Liike is coordinated by the Finnish products can have completely novel applications in various sensitive stomachs Olympic Committee and will be supported by several other products from drinks to cosmetics. Today, over half of Fazer’s low-FODMAP rye bread, developed in cooperation companies from 2017 onwards. Fazer’s net sales from oats come from exports to 30 with universities in Finland and abroad, is the first rye countries, and the new oat products have the potential to bread developed for people with sensitive stomachs. The open new markets for Fazer. new bread, which is one of Fazer’s three stomach-friendly 19 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Stakeholder dialogue about health Case: As an internationally operating food company, Fazer is Reducing salt safeguards health and in a position to benefit society at large by its products and services, but also by cooperating with the scientific could save millions community and engaging in active stakeholder dialogue. In 2016, Fazer launched a newsletter for Finnish healthcare Salt is one of the most significant risk factors of high blood professionals, Fazer Hyvinvointiuutiset. The Group has pressure and among the biggest factors in the world representation in different health-related working groups reducing the number of healthy years in people’s lives. In and cooperates with non-governmental organisations to Finland, women consume 6.5 grams of salt daily and men increase health awareness. In 2016, Fazer participated in, for 9 grams, while the recommended salt intake per day example, the EAT Stockholm Food Forum, which focused on is 5 grams. Stakeholder statement: consumption and production patterns, cities, accountability, The food industry has long been expected to provide solutions to reduce salt intake – a challenge that Fazer and Star t-up cooperation boosts technology and innovation in the food industry. Valio have set out to tackle.Valio ValSa® milk salt allows innovation both companies to manufacture products using less salt. In 2016, Fazer partnered with Vertical, the leading Milk salt contains many of the minerals naturally found in Health accelerator in the Nordic region, to tap into the milk and its sodium content is nearly 80 per cent lower entrepreneurial ecosystem and stimulate corporate than that of table salt. innovation activities. During the year, we helped Fazer According to a nutrition economic research conducted follow trends across start-ups focusing on ways in which by MedFiles for Valio and Fazer, the daily salt intake of nutrition can prevent and treat diseases as well as increase Finns would decrease by 11 per cent if Finns chose cognitive performance. products with a salt level equivalent to that in products The Vertical acceleration programme helped the manufactured with Valio ValSa® milk salt instead of most promising cases initiate cooperation projects normally salted bread, spread and cheese.The number of with Fazer to support the Fazer Brainhow programme arterial disease events and resulting deaths would reduce implementation.Young companies like Diske and Better by 3,700 cases over the next 10 years.This would allow Day had the opportunity to validate their offering through Finland to save up to 65 million euros in healthcare costs real sales opportunities and to tune their service with over the same time period. fast prototyping and effective pilots in order to deliver In 2016, Fazer cut down the amount of salt used in its concrete value to customers. We are proud to work bread by 35,000 kg in Finland. As of 2016, Fazer Bakery in with Fazer – a company that has a strong reputation for Finland manufactures all bread by using only iodised salt. operating with a positive and sustainable impact on the In addition, 85 per cent of the salt used by Fazer Food environment and on people’s lives. Services is iodised. Paolo Borella CEO, Vertical Health accelerator 20 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 New products increasing health and well-being Fazer’s ‘Baked Health’ thumb symbol indicates that the bread product in question is a good choice because it is tasty and contributes to well-being. The breads contain e.g. less salt or more vegetables or protein, forming a part of a wholesome yet enjoyable diet. Bread for sensitive stomachs Fazer Root Vegetable Bread Fazer Balans bread range In 2016, Fazer launched a trio of breads for sensitive Fazer Root Vegetable Bread was introduced to Finnish and In Sweden, Fazer responded to the health trend by stomachs in Finland. The innovative product line includes Russian consumers in 2016. The innovative bread range, expanding its Fazer Balans bread range with two new three delicious and wholesome breads that are gentle which was first launched in Sweden in 2015, combines the products that contain good carbohydrates and protein, on the digestive system: a low-FODMAP rye bread, renowned taste of Fazer bread with healthy and nutritious minerals and vitamins. Fazer Frökraft is a gluten-free bread which contains a smaller amount of poorly absorbed root vegetables, which replace part of the flour. The Root with nutritious seeds, and Fazer Aktiv Flerkorn is a proteincarbohydrates (FODMAPs) than regular rye bread; an oat Vegetable Bread answers the consumer demand for products rich product which suits consumers who need alternative bread that contains no wheat but plenty of healthy seeds; that enhance well-being without compromising taste. protein sources. and a gluten-free roll. 21 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 The way forward • Continue to expand Fazer’s offering with products that support well-being • Continue working with increasing vegetable use during 2017 with several actions • Participate in addressing and mitigating obesity and salt and sugar consumption • Continue to engage in stakeholder dialogue and research cooperation in health-related topics • Implement Fazer’s approach to a balanced diet and portion control in everyday work Fazer Alku mueslis Fazer entered a new product category with three new Fazer Alku mueslis, which build on the success of the Fazer Alku porridges. The new muesli range contains three products. They contain no added sugar or wheat; the taste of Finnish oats, rye and barley is complemented by additive-free, freeze-dried berries and fruit. A drop of honey provides healthy sweetness. The environmentally friendly packaging of Fazer Alku mueslis comes with a handy pouring lip, which makes the muesli easy to portion. 22 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 People matter Fazer takes great pride in its committed and skilled people Achievements in 2016: Goals: • Increased understanding of diversity and • To have talented, motivated and healthy people, provided training possibilities through the and lead them in an inspiring manner 125 Opportunities for Working Life initiative • Respect all employees and offer them an equal • Launched a Safety Engineering Programme working community through meaningful work in Fazer Bakery and a safe working environment • Launched a mentoring programme • Further develop a diversified working • Renewed Fazer Academy community • Increased internal job rotation • Agreed on group-level Flexible Ways of Fazer’s success is created by Working Instruction its people • Implemented local action plans according Fazer employs approximately 15,000 people in 8 countries, to the People Power Index results: focus on and each and every one of them contributes to the development areas company’s success. Profitability, growth and development • Local action plans resulting in significant depend on highly skilled and motivated personnel who decrease of sick leaves in Finland understand their roles and responsibilities and execute accordingly. An important motivational factor is a shared understanding of Fazer’s strategy, Fazer Behaviours and brand value. When each employee has a clear view of the environment and maintain their health. The goal for Fazer’s Ethical Principles and Human Rights Policy guide common goals and of how they relate to one’s daily work, occupational safety is, naturally, zero accidents, and Fazer Fazer in respecting the human rights, personal dignity and they are able to contribute according to their full potential. engages in systematic safety development work to reduce privacy of its personnel, treating its employees in a fair and Fazer wants its people to be personally accountable, enjoy hazards and risks at the work place. equal manner and ensuring the safety of its employees. their work, be proud of their accomplishments and feel respected and appreciated at all times. Fazer’s People Policy and Fazer Behaviours direct the company’s management and employees in everyday The safety and well-being of the personnel are key situations. The policy is based upon the company’s values, fundamentals at Fazer, and these are continuously developed ethical principles, people guidelines and instructions. In in order to ensure that all employees can work in a safe accordance with the United Nations Global Compact, 23 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 High performance culture Furthermore, the renewed Fazer Academy was taken into EMPLOYEES BY AGE, % motivates continuous improvement use. All trainings, both web-based and face-to-face, can be handled through the Fazer Academy learning management 100 90 80 Fazer is developing a High performance culture to motivate system. Employees are offered relevant training and 70 its management and personnel to continuously strive to superiors can easily keep track of their team’s training 60 50 improve their behaviour and performance and develop their history and qualifications. All this ensures easy access 40 competences. Fazer wants its employees to realise their full to business relevant learning opportunities and aims to 30 potential, appreciate the importance of their own role and increase employees’ interest in proactively developing their 20 10 take pride in a job well done. Developing leadership culture capabilities. 0 FI SE RU DK LV EE NO NO LT Total Yht. is an important part of the action plan, which also involves Under 20 31–40 yrs 51–60 yrs finding new ways of working and enhancing mutual trust. 21–30 yrs 41–50 yrs Over 60 Fazer Behaviours define the expectations for the company’s personnel at all levels and form the basis for the High EMPLOYEES BY GENDER performance culture. Built around Fazer’s values, the behaviours guide management and employees to take Case: Women 58% Men 42% responsibility for their performance, give and receive Trainee programme encourages constructive feedback and develop their own skills and ways of working. In 2016, Fazer Behaviours were taken into action individual development and growth and actively addressed in team and development discussions. Fazer takes great care to support the professional development of its people and to create a solid basis Developing a learning culture for the company’s future operations. In autumn 2015, Fazer initiated the Finance Trainee Programme, which is In Fazer’s High performance culture, every employee has the company’s multi-dimensional, two-year programme personal goals. Regular personal development discussions offering the first stepping stone to a career at Fazer. During are held as part of the Individual Performance Management the programme, the trainees work in different business NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER COUNTRY Process (IPMP) to support the setting and reaching of those units within Finance & Control and get to experience Finland 6,179 goals. The aim is to have development discussions at every multiple roles and locations. Sweden 3,339 Fazer production site, restaurant and café. The trainees are supported by assigned mentors and Russia 3,061 coaches during the entire programme, allowing individual Denmark 972 In 2016 Fazer launched a mentoring pilot to develop follow-ups of the trainees’ development.The first three Norway 613 the learning culture within the Group and increase cotrainees started in autumn 2015, and now Fazer has nine Latvia 317 operation across the company. The pilot concerns all trainees altogether. Lithuania 247 white-collar workers at Fazer. In addition, the digital Estonia 148 competencies of Fazer’s personnel were defined in order to incorporate the advances brought on by digitalisation into everyday work. 24 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 125 Opportunities for Working Life Fazer believes strongly in providing equal opportunities. In 2016, Fazer celebrated its 125th anniversary by launching the 125 Opportunities for Working Life initiative, a three to six month training for people who have difficulty finding employment – immigrants, long-term unemployed people, young unemployed people with little or no work experience, and those with reduced functional ability. The programme includes face-to-face training as well as on-the-job training, and is carried out in cooperation with the Helsinki Deaconess Institute. The overall target of the two-year initiative is to help 125 people find employment and develop their working skills. At the same time, Fazer benefits from the fresh and diverse viewpoints of the trainees. Fazer believes it will be able to offer employment within the Group to at least 70 per cent of the participants, with the rest receiving assistance in finding employment through the Role exchange and job rotation Helsinki Deaconess Institute’s Työpiiri employment project. Through the initiative, Fazer has the opportunity to give new opportunities gain knowledge about managing diversity. In addition to In 2016, Fazer has developed its processes and practices to Fazer’s long journey, 125 Opportunities for Working Life drive increased job rotation to give people opportunities for celebrates Finland’s 100 years of independence, a milestone professional development and for learning from each other. the country reaches in 2017. It allows employees to expand their skill set, helping them grow in the organisation. Job rotation is also connected In 2016, Fazer also participated in a diversity and inclusion to the objectives of diversity work, as it can be applied to management study conducted by the Finnish Business and finding suitable new tasks within the Group for employees Society, FIBS. Around 100 employees gave their views on with reduced ability, for example after sick leave or when Fazer’s practices on diversity and equality. Based on the approaching retirement age. results, Fazer will continue internal discussions on the topic. Taking on new tasks poses an exciting challenge for an employee, but it also challenges the managers to recognise the employees who would benefit from a role change. The development of job rotation will continue in 2017. 25 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Extended talent ecosystem allows Frequency of occupational accidents Case: dynamic resourcing Number of accidents per one Recruitment training empowers million working hours 2016 2015 Fazer Bakery 5.5 6.3 Working life has seen many changes in the past few years, as cooperation, partnerships and freelance work have new chefs Fazer Confectionery 13.7 20.8 increased. Fazer began building its HR vision 2022 in order In spring 2016, Fazer Food Services Sweden started a Fazer Food Services 19.5 18.1 to support business strategy execution in the best possible collaboration project with the education services company Total in Group 12.1 12.5 way, and to include not only the competencies of its own Lernia and the Swedish job centre.The recruitment training people, but those of partners and networks as well. The focused on the professional skills needed in kitchens and changing expectations of current and future employees, canteens.Twelve unemployed people went through a dynamic development and resourcing calls for varied and tailored, 33-week training, which was structured around FREQUENCY OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS (LTAF) flexible skill sets. theory, practical sessions and on-the-job learning. During Number of accidents per one million working hours their practice period in Amica restaurants, the participants 20 Another major trend is the increased importance of adapted their cooking skills to a catering setting. 18 15.3 16 15.0 employee experience. Attracting and retaining the best According to Lernia, 75–95 per cent of people who 14 12.5 12.1 people requires investment in their well-being as well as in participate in customised employment training programmes 12 10 the everyday work experience. Processes must be simple, get jobs directly after graduation. By providing training 8 smooth and practical, and employees must be able to opportunities, Fazer wants to support people in their search 6 4 influence their workday. To that end, Fazer unified its model for employment. In addition, the collaboration helps the 2 for flexible work, to put all employees on an equal footing. food industry to answer the shortage of skilled chefs. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Continuous improvement in management and executes safety walks. Monthly safety occupational safety and health reporting is shared with all Fazer employees and safety is SAFETY OBSERVATIONS Fazer aims to provide a safe and healthy working also included in the company’s rewarding systems. environment and working conditions to protect and maintain 8000 7,305** 7,698*** the employees' ability to work, as well as to prevent accidents Safety culture development 7000 at work, occupational illnesses and physical and mental health 6000 5,285* 5000 drawbacks. In 2016, many actions were taken to improve In 2016, Fazer focused on developing its safety culture and 4000 safety and health at work. A new long-term development management practices. The first employee safety culture 3000 plan for quality, environment, health and safety (QEHS) and a survey was completed for major operations. Based on the 2000 QEHS policy were approved to guide QEHS work at Fazer. results, the businesses decide on development actions for 1000 2017. To further develop health and safety management 0 2014 2015 2016 To enforce the policy, Fazer has set up a management practices, Fazer also implemented special safety-focused days * Figure includes Fazer Confectioner y and Fazer Baker y system and defined actions and responsibilities in a number at sites and operations to strengthen the dialogue between ** Figure includes Fazer Confectioner y, Fazer Baker y and Fazer Food Ser vices Finland of areas related to occupational safety. Fazer’s management top management, site management and health and safety *** Figure includes Fazer Confectioner y, Fazer Baker y, Fazer regularly reviews and evaluates the level of health and safety professionals. Food Ser vices Finland, Fazer Mills Finland and Fazer Cafés 26 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Actions to improve safety in order to turn the conclusions into prompt actions. During HR functions keep track of the actions with the survey's procedures 2016, managers focused on the most critical development areas with their teams, according to plans based on the 2015 reporting tool and managers are provided with different tools to help them observe the effects of the actions In addition to safety culture development, the quality of risk results. In Fazer Group, 1,916 actions were documented carried out. assessments and accident investigations has been improved altogether. The top five action plan topics were related and control of high risk activities has been strengthened. The to prerequisites, communication and involvement, job New collaboration methods and tools have also been Safety Engineering Programme (a machine safety programme) motivation, empowerment and operative culture. Business adopted for improved interaction with all employees. was launched at Fazer Bakery and Fazer Confectionery to better identify and control machine-related risks. Fazer Confectionery and Fazer Bakery Sweden received OHSAS 18001 safety certifications. Fazer Mills Finland and Fazer The way forward Bakery Russia already have OHSAS certificates. • Continue to integrate the High performance culture and Fazer Behaviours into everyday work Despite these efforts, the Group level Lost Time Accident • Enhance safety work to achieve zero accidents Frequency (LTAF) target was not reached. Actions to • Further develop the job rotation process prevent accidents seem to have been less efficient than • Continue to work with diversity expected, and in 2017, Fazer will strive to ensure that safety actions are even more focused and more effective. Safety • Develop an extended talent ecosystem has been a major focus for Fazer during many years, but it • Finalise Fazer’s HR vision 2022 acknowledges that the cultural change takes time. Employee well-being and satisfaction Fazer applies a well-being at work strategy to improve the Group’s competitiveness, financial performance and reputation. Employees who feel safe, healthy and appreciated are likely to be more engaged. Fazer’s wellbeing framework addresses leadership, work fluency, safety, competence, meaningfulness, health, fellowship and employeeship as well as worklife cycle management. Personnel feedback taken into action In 2016, instead of conducting the personnel survey, focus was put on the development areas found in the 2015 survey 27 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fair value chain Responsible sourcing benefits everyone across the value chain Achievements in 2016: Goals: • Increased share of responsible cocoa to 85 • Constantly improve the level of responsibility per cent and strengthen cooperation in the value chain • Used 92 per cent Segregated palm oil for • Improve traceability in the value chain and confectionery products (8 per cent RSPO secure food quality and safety Mass Balance or RSPO Book & Claim) • Control and mitigate responsibility risks related • Received top score with full points in to the raw material base WWF’s Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard 2016 • 73 per cent of fish used in Sweden certified and 78 per cent of fish used in Finland green-listed by WWF Seafood Guide Sustainability observed throughout • Common target established for responsible the value chain soy use As an internationally operating food company, Fazer has • Supplied 61 per cent domestic produce the opportunity to make a difference not only in its own in restaurants in Finland, 55 per cent in production but in the entire value chain. In a large network of raw material producers, environmental and human rights Denmark and 50 per cent in Sweden risks exist and must be taken into account. Fazer strives • Developed the Quality, Environment, to identify and minimise potential issues and increase the Health and Safety Long Term Plan sustainability and transparency of its sourcing. • 19 of Fazer’s production sites certified according to the FSSC 22000 food safety Fazer believes that responsible and transparent sourcing is standard the only way to secure the continuous availability of high quality raw materials. By striving to ensure fair treatment • In Sweden, Fazer Food Services’ main towards all links in the value chain, Fazer has been able processes, headquarters and two to create a vast pool of responsible and reliable suppliers restaurants were certified to ISO 9001 around the world. quality management standard 28 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fazer aims to provide sufficient compensation, training and Responsibility ensures high quality RESPONSIBLE COCOA STATUS guidance in environmental matters to, for instance, cocoa farmers in order to support the farming communities. cocoa supply Cocoa purchased according to Fazer's cocoa programme 85% When raw material production is profitable and sustainable, Cocoa is a key raw material for Fazer Confectionery, Certified 63% suppliers are able to continue to provide quality goods for and the company sources cocoa from Ecuador and West Direct sustainability Fazer. Better traceability allows the Group to monitor the African countries such as Ivory Coast and Nigeria. Active programmes 22% working conditions and environmental compliance in raw cooperation with cocoa farmers and their communities Conventional 15% material production and to take action if necessary. ensures responsible and transparent production, which is a prerequisite for a successful long-term supplier relationship. Responsible sourcing does not apply to distant countries Fazer supports farmers through, for example, training, better alone. Fazer is aware that domestic produce is highly rated planting materials and social initiatives in the communities, an in Fazer Food Services’ local markets. Rules on, for example, example of which is a school construction project in Nigeria, animal welfare and use of antibiotics do however vary started in December 2016. between countries, even if standards are generally high in the Nordics. One way in which Fazer is aiming to address Fazer takes part in three commercial certification this during 2017 is by agreeing on a minimum level of animal programmes, in addition to which it sources cocoa through welfare criteria that all Fazer Food Services operating its own direct sustainability programmes in Nigeria and countries – Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Norway – must Ecuador. As only around 20 per cent of cocoa farmers live up to. In 2016, the share of domestic produce in Fazer’s participate in certification programmes, it is vital to reach the restaurants was 61 per cent in Finland, 55 per cent in cocoa farmers that are outside of these certification schemes. Denmark and 50 per cent in Sweden. Fazer believes in using a larger pool of suppliers in order to scale up the sustainability activities to all cocoa farmers and Supplier requirements ensure secure sufficient amounts of responsibly produced cocoa that meets the company’s high quality standards. sustainable value chain Fazer holds up ethical principles and standards in its own For cocoa farmers, the benefits to be gained from production and expects the same from its network of participating in the programmes include the development suppliers. In order to ensure a sustainable value chain from of cultivation methods and professional skills, safe and raw material production to finished products, Fazer selects appropriate fertilisation, improved yield and quality of its suppliers carefully and assesses each new supplier against crops, more developed seedlings that allow the renewal of the Group’s supplier requirements. These include both the farm's cocoa tree stock, premiums and mapping of the social and environmental criteria and are included in Fazer’s farm's. The benefits for the farming communities include frame agreements. the prevention of child labour and support for education, community development, for example wells, and protective equipment. 29 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Both the certification programmes and the direct RESPONSIBLE PALM OIL STATUS FAZER’S PALM OIL USE BY BUSINESS AREA sustainability programmes seek to ensure that cocoa RSPO certified palm oil (incl. all Fazer Bakery 66.2% farming is a profitable livelihood for farmers, child labour is RSPO supply chain options) 100% Fazer Confectionery 31.1% not used and the cultivation methods are environmentally Segregated 37% Fazer Food Services 2.7% sound. In the Nigerian programme, local child labour liaison Mass Balance 3% officers are trained to monitor and report if cases of child Book & Claim / GreenPalm labour are detected, and to assist in matters pertaining to certificates 60% remediation and grievance. In 2016, Fazer succeeded in reaching the goal of 85 per cent responsibly produced cocoa. 63 per cent of all cocoa purchased by Fazer was certified by UTZ, Rainforest Alliance or the Fairtrade Cocoa Programme, and 22 per All of the palm oil purchased by Fazer is certified. Fazer is a cent was sourced from farmers participating in the direct member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), Case: programmes. From the beginning of 2017, the percentage an international initiative that promotes sustainability in reached a full 100 per cent. All programmes and certification the palm oil industry. By applying RSPO principles in its Choosing local, Swedish pork to schemes that Fazer uses in cocoa sourcing are audited by a sourcing, Fazer supports responsible and transparent palm tackle overuse of antibiotics third party. Fazer’s responsible cocoa sourcing management oil production. and practices and direct programme in Nigeria were audited The use of antibiotics increasing the risk of multi-resistant in 2016. In 2017, the direct programme in Ecuador will be RSPO offers four supply chain options. In all of them, RSPO bacteria developing in animals is a hot topic. After audited. certified plantations have been found by independent evaluating the welfare of pigs in EU countries in 2015, auditors to operate within the guidelines of RSPO. The ‘Book Fazer Food Services Sweden decided to take a proactive Fazer participates in industry-wide efforts to improve & Claim’ option involves a premium to support RSPOstance on the issue. sustainability of the cocoa value chain through the certified plantations for every tonne of palm oil used. The Sweden has the world’s most comprehensive animal development of the CEN/ISO standard for sustainable and ‘Mass Balance’ option demands that the volumes of certified welfare law and the lowest level of antibiotic use in the traceable cocoa. The Group is also a member of the World palm oil are monitored throughout the supply chain, while in EU. As of April 2016, Fazer Food Services in Sweden Cocoa Foundation. the ‘Segregated’ option, palm oil is physically separated from replaced all imported pork with local produce. With this non-certified palm oil throughout the supply chain. choice, Fazer can support improved livestock farming. Choosing local pork also supports Swedish agriculture. Good development in responsible With new pork recipes, Fazer Food Services can also Fazer is continuously increasing the share of Mass Balance palm oil sourcing and Segregated palm oil in its sourcing. In 2016, Book & reduce the use of beef, which has a greater impact on the Fazer uses palm oil mainly in fat blends for fillings and Claim made up 60 per cent of the palm oil purchased by climate than pork. margarines. In 2016, Fazer Group used approximately the Group. Three per cent of the total was Mass Balance 4.3 million tonnes of palm oil. Of the total amount, 9 per certified and 37 per cent Segregated. The palm oil used by cent was refined palm oil and the rest comprised of different Fazer Confectionery was 92 per cent Segregated. There palm oil derivatives. were a few products with which it was not possible to meet 30 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 the target of segregated palm oil. For these products, Fazer still made sure to buy RSPO certified palm oil: RSPO Mass Balance or RSPO Book & Claim. In 2016, Fazer received Responsible Fish Status % the top score, a full 9 points, in the international WWF’s Green list fish (Finland and Sweden, incl. 76 Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard, which assesses the progress of certified fish) companies on the commitments and actions to ensure the Green list fish Finland 78 sustainability of their palm oil use. Certified fish Sweden 73 Sustainable seafood on the lunch plate The global problem of overfishing has a considerable Stakeholder statement: impact on the responsible use of fish. Fish comprises Responding to consumers’ approximately 10 per cent of the raw materials used by sustainability concerns Fazer Food Services. Fazer wants to offer consumers responsibly sourced fish in its dishes and follows WWF Consumers are taking an increasingly close interest in recommendations for sustainable seafood in Finland, sustainability and the work companies do to operate Sweden, Norway and Denmark. No fish or shellfish responsibly, particularly when something is discussed on the red list of the WWF Seafood Guide is used in in the media. As a result, we receive more and more Fazer’s restaurants. The guide specifies overfished and questions on sustainability issues, such as palm oil, cocoa unsustainable fish stocks. and recycling.This interest is not limited to adults – we also receive messages from school children. Fazer has set specific targets for responsible fish sourcing That is why it is essential for Fazer to have an outspoken in each of its operating countries. For example in Finland, strategy on corporate responsibility that we can use to Fazer’s target has been to double the use of green-listed provide consumers with well-informed answers. It is fish (from the level of 2013), which is from well-managed, important to treat all consumers in a respectful way, show sustainable stocks. This target was reached during 2016. In them we take an interest in their questions and work to Sweden, the goal is to increase the share of certified fish. personalise dialogue with them.This way, Fazer is able to In 2016, 78 per cent of fish used in Finland was greenprovide accessible information to consumers and build listed and 73 per cent of fish used in Swedish Fazer long-term trust. restaurants was certified. Lars Melander Consumer Contact, Fazer Bakery Sweden and Fazer Confectionery Sweden 31 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Grain Vision increases cooperation The way forward with farmers • Continue systematic development of responsibility The development and promotion of sustainable farming is and cooperation in the value chain an important goal for Fazer, especially for Fazer Mills and • Continue to improve traceability Fazer Bakery. In 2016, Fazer developed its Sustainable Grain • Continue development of direct programmes Farming Principles. Fazer also continued defining its Grain together with cocoa farmers Vision activities, working towards developing verification and • Continue the Grain Vision activities targets and continuing active stakeholder dialogue. During the year, the company conducted a farmer study in Finland • Review of Fazer's Commitment to Responsible Palm Oil in 2017 to better understand the current level of environmental practices. In Sweden, a supplier study was carried out for • Work towards achieving the responsible soy target the same reason. Fazer Bakery and Fazer Mills Sweden and • Continue monitoring the share of domestic sourcing Finland set a target that all grain shall fulfil Fazer’s sustainable in Fazer Food Services grain farming principles by 2025. • Continue the certification process of Fazer sites • Continue systematic work to ensure food safety and Fazer targets 100 per cent quality responsible soy Most of Fazer Group’s soy use is indirect, used as, for instance, cattle feed in meat production. In 2016, a common target was agreed for the direct and indirect Risks are identified by the company’s food safety and quality consumption of soy. By 2020 Fazer is committed to 100 per management systems. Fazer is in the process of carrying out cent responsible soy by ensuring the soy the Group uses, a plan to certify all its production sites according to the directly or indirectly through the products Fazer purchases, FSSC 22000 global food safety standard. At the end of is responsibly produced. This means that the soy should be 2016, 19 of Fazer’s production sites were certified certified to schemes such as Roundtable on Responsible according to the FSSC 22000 safety standard. Soy (RTRS) or Proterra. In 2016, a new long term plan was Food safety and quality is created for quality, environment, health and safety matters, top priority with the aim of creating clear Food safety is naturally a vital factor in all Fazer’s businesses, direction. The objectives of the and allows no compromises. The quality and safety of every plan include defining and setting ingredient and every dish served must be excellent. In raw targets, identifying development areas material sourcing, Fazer applies its own safety standards and building an implementation road map that complement the legislation governing food quality. to reach the target state. 32 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Par t of the environment Achievements in 2016: • Energy mappings carried out in operating We rely on the resources nature countries within the EU gives us • Energy use decreased by 4 per cent per produced tonne Goals: • Share of renewable electricity increased to • Reduce climate impact and increase energy 86 per cent efficiency • Waste reduction targets adopted for Fazer • Prevent waste and loss of raw materials Bakery and Fazer Confectionery • Manage and use water resources responsibly • Fazer Grain Vision – Development of • Support sustainable farming and prevent loss of Fazer’s Sustainable Grain Farming Principles biodiversity • Development of Zero Deforestation • Raise environmental awareness Commitment; identification of raw materials that may cause deforestation • Fazer Food Services Sweden certified to new requirements in updated ISO 14001 Fazer treats nature and its • New sites certified to ISO 14001 and to resources with respect Miljøfyrtårn Fazer depends on the long-term availability of raw materials and therefore strives to minimise the environmental impacts of its operations. Fazer sees environmental responsibility as a natural part of its operations, but it is also regarded as the company’s duty to the communities in which it operates. universities on new research, receiving valuable input on Fazer’s responsible offering consists of people’s everyday ways to improve environmental performance when it comes well-being, sustainable use of the planet’s resources and the to e.g. reducing food waste. shared value the company creates in society. Responsible treatment of nature and its resources throughout the value As an employer, purchaser, partner and service provider, chain is the only way to preserve the planet for future Fazer does not carry out its responsibility work alone. generations – and the food business of the future. Inspiring employees, suppliers, consumers and customers to adopt environmentally sustainable working methods and Fazer engages in continuous dialogue with various habits is part of a comprehensive sustainability approach. This stakeholders concerning the development of its requires active dialogue and transparent communications environmental initiatives. The Group cooperates with regarding Fazer’s responsibility targets and initiatives. 33 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 To manage environmental impacts, many production and raw materials in its offering in its restaurants with, for ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2016 sites and restaurants are certified. In Norway, four more instance, nudging (more on nudging in the Health and wellAmount of production (tonnes) 589,001 restaurants were certified to Miljøfyrtårn in 2016, bringing being section on page 18). Environmental impacts are also Energy consumption (MWh) 504,384 the total number to 15. During 2017, all 72 restaurants with mitigated by using seasonal ingredients. In addition, Fazer Energy consumption/produced quantity (MWh/tonne) 0.86 more than two employees will be certified. At the end of continues its efficient work to reduce food waste in all Usage of water (m³) 884,977 the year 2016, 10 confectionery, bakery and mills sites were its operations. Usage of water/produced amount (m³/tonne) 1.50 certified to ISO 14001. All Fazer's Swedish restaurants Used raw materials (tonne) 481,683 Used raw materials/produced quantity (tonnes/tonne) 0.82 were audited and certified to the updated standard ISO 14001:2015 from the earlier ISO 14001:2004 version. Fazer Advances in energy efficiency Total amount of waste/produced quantity (tonnes/tonne) 0.08 also evaluated the implications of the updated version of ISO In 2016, energy mappings were carried out in all Fazer’s Total amount of waste (tonnes), of which 48,650 • Recycled (%) 66 14001. The new version introduces, for example, lifecycle operating countries within the EU, according to the EU • Recycled as energy (%)* 26 thinking when considering environmental aspects. energy efficiency directive. • Landfill waste (%) 8 *Biofuel is calculated as recycled as energy . The environmental indicators cover the operations of Fazer´s An evaluation was carried out to determine how Fazer In Finland, Fazer Confectionery and Fazer Bakery together bakeries and confectionery factories and Fazer Mills. is working to fulfil the Swedish National Objectives. with Fazer Mills Finland reached their national energy 'No eutrophication', 'Limited climate impact', 'A rich efficiency targets defined in the national Energy Agreement agricultural landscape' and 'Good built environment' were which continued until 2016. Fazer Confectionery joined the ENERGY CONSUMPTION/PRODUCED QUANTITY identified to be the four most relevant among the 16 agreement in 2009; Fazer Bakery and Fazer Mills Finland in MWh/tonne national environmental objectives. Fazer engaged in active 2008. Energy Efficiency Agreements are a voluntary method, 1,0 0.98 dialogue with Swedish decision-makers about green public established together by the Government and industries, for 0,9 0.93 0.93 0.90 0.86 0,8 procurement, sustainable consumption, circular economy fulfilling the energy efficiency obligations set for Finland by 0,7 and the ways in which the Group can contribute to the the EU. The role of voluntary agreements in implementing 0,6 0,5 national environmental objectives. the country’s energy and climate strategy is a significant one, 0,4 as improvements in energy efficiency help reduce carbon 0,3 0,2 Many means for reducing emissions dioxide emissions and thereby mitigate climate change. 0,1 0,0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The food industry generates a significant portion of In total, Fazer’s energy use decreased by 4 per cent global greenhouse gas emissions. In order to minimise the compared to 2015. Renewable electricity made up 86 per emissions resulting from its operations, Fazer is developing cent of the total electricity consumption, exceeding the its offering into a more sustainable direction, providing target of 70 per cent. Fazer Bakery’s sites in Lithuania and more alternatives that have a lower environmental impact Latvia purchased 100 per cent renewable electricity in 2016, and, thereby, giving consumers the opportunity to make a which increased the overall share of renewable energy difference with their choices. consumed by Fazer. In Finland and Sweden, Fazer continued to purchase 100 per cent renewable electricity in 2016. The cultivation of vegetables causes on average less strain on the environment than meat or dairy production, and Fazer works to increase the use of plant-based products 34 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Water matters In Russia, planning for sewage cleaning system installations is under way. The project, which started in 2015 at the Addressing water risks, such as quality, availability and Murinskaya site, continued in 2016. Fazer is studying the conflict over water, will be one of the key sustainability possibility of installing water sewage cleaning systems at all focuses in 2017. Water issues will be evaluated in its Russian sites. both production and the value chain. Fazer joined the Stockholm International Water Institute's (SIWI) water High meat and protein consumption has been linked to cluster group that includes food industry players, to work eutrophication. Fazer strives to combat eutrophication by more actively with water management during 2017 and increasing the share of vegetables in its restaurants. Nudging, develop a Water Plan. which gently steers consumers to choose plant-based alternatives to meat, has proved successful in this effort and will be continued as part of the wider More Greens initiative in Fazer Food Services restaurants. Fazer operates in several countries in the Baltic Sea region and participates in efforts to improve the condition of the sea. The Group’s commitment to the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) contains four strategic elements: Fazer’s Grain Vision, responsibility programme for Fazer Mills, more responsible offering for Fazer Food Services and implementation of Fazer’s energy strategy. In 2016, Fazer took action in each element, with significant advances in sustainable grain farming in particular. Developing sustainable farming principles Substantial progress was made towards fulfilling the Fazer Grain Vision, and Fazer’s Sustainable Grain Farming Principles were developed and approved. Fazer’s Sustainable Grain Farming Principles serve as a basis for active sustainability cooperation with farmers. The principles aim at minimising eutrophication and the use of chemicals while supporting resource efficiency and productivity. The Fazer Grain Vision is part of Fazer’s Baltic Sea commitment. In 2016, Fazer Bakery and Fazer Mills in Sweden and Finland set a target that all grain shall fulfil the Fazer Grain Vision principles by 2025. 35 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Committed to Zero Deforestation preventing waste by donating food or sending food to be WASTE TREATMENT used as animal feed. However, the targets Fazer has set are Recycled 66% Fazer continued the development of its Zero deforestation to prevent waste in its operations and eliminate inefficiencies Recycled as energy 26% commitment in close dialogue with WWF during 2016. as opposed to donating food as a way of preventing waste. Landfill waste 8% Deforestation is a major cause of climate change, causing loss of habitat to animal and plant species as well as flooding and During 2016, confectionery and bakery sites started their soil erosion. Deforestation also threatens the livelihoods of journey towards reducing waste by 10% by 2020. Many people who receive their food and income from forests. sites were successful and improvements were carried out. However, at other sites, a negative trend continued, which The main raw materials causing deforestation and used by underlined the importance of continuous work towards Fazer were identified; attention will be paid in particular to waste reduction. the responsible use of palm oil, direct and indirect soy use TOTAL AMOUNT OF WASTE/PRODUCED QUANTITY and pulp and paper-based packaging in Fazer’s operations. tonnes/tonne Fazer aims to tackle the deforestation challenge by ensuring 0,12 that its raw materials are purchased from sustainable sources Case: 0,10 where human and labour rights as well as land tenure rights Fazer Cafés reduce food waste 0.08 0.08 0,08 0.07 0.07 are respected. Fazer aims not to purchase raw materials 0.06 0,06 from areas with high conservation value, primary forests, As part of Fazer’s Material Loss and Waste Prevention 0,04 areas that require conversion of natural vegetation or from Plan, Fazer Cafés adopted food waste reduction targets. sources that create harmful pressures on natural ecosystems. 0,02 According to the plan, Fazer Cafés would develop a 0,00 process for donating unsold food to charity and create 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Preventing wasteful ways procedures for reducing organic waste by 2016. This way, Fazer can reduce its environmental impact while, at the In 2016, Fazer approved a Material Loss Plan and Waste same time, helping those in need. Prevention Plan outlining a number of targets to prevent By the end of the year, five Fazer Cafés in the Helsinki food waste, facilitate re-use of materials and support circular area were donating unsold food to charity, while four economy. The plan includes waste targets for Fazer Food other cafés were in negotiations to begin donations. In Services, Fazer Cafés and Gateau bakery shops in Sweden, addition, the amount of organic waste was cut by 14 per which were approved during 2015. In addition, it specifies cent in 2016 compared to 2015. targets for Fazer Confectionery, Fazer Bakery and Fazer Mills Fazer achieved these targets by investing into to reduce waste by 10 per cent by 2020. assortment planning as well as product and offering development. In addition, monthly waste figures were The Material Loss and Waste Prevention Plan also includes discussed with café personnel, food assortments the Fazer Waste Hierarchy: Prevention, Preparation for were changed three times a year and follow-ups were Re-use, Recycling, Recovery and Disposal. Fazer looks at conducted regularly. waste prevention in two steps. Step 1 is to prevent waste from occurring as a result of its operations, and step 2 is 36 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Case: The way forward Reducing food waste one gram at • Move forward with the Zero Deforestation Commitment a time • Continued progress on the Fazer Grain Vision One of Fazer Food Services’ prioritised corporate • Continued work to raise awareness of responsibility initiatives is reducing food waste. During environmentally sustainable food production 2016, Fazer Food Services organised waste campaigns to • Evaluation of water issues in production and the reduce display and plate waste. The target was to reduce value chain, and development of a Water Plan food waste by 10 grams per portion by 2017, with five • Continued efforts to improve energy efficiency at grams coming from storage and display waste and five Fazer’s sites from plate waste. As a result of the campaigns and ongoing efforts between them, Fazer Food Services was able to reduce storage and display waste by 6.8 grams per portion in 2016. The company serves around 100 million portions per year, which means that the percentage can be translated to a reduction of 680 tonnes annually. To reduce plate waste, Fazer Food Services conducted waste campaigns in restaurants during 2016. The efforts will continue during 2017. The work is not physically limited to the restaurants: Fazer has also examined ways to reduce food waste further down the value chain. For example, in order to reduce waste, Fazer has procured second-class vegetables that do not fulfil aesthetic requirements. A malformed carrot tastes just as delicious as a perfectly shaped one. 37 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Management system cer tificates at Fazer QEHS standards Food safety standards ISO ISO OHSAS FSSC 9001 14001 18001 22000 BRC IFS Additional info Fazer Confectionery Vantaa X X X X Lappeenranta X X X X Karkkila X X X X Vantaa Biscuit X X Fazer Bakery Finland Vantaa X Lahti X Crisp factory X X X Lappeenranta X Oulu X Fazer Bakery Sweden Eskilstuna X X X Lidköping X X X X Lund X Lövånger X Umeå X Fazer Bakery Russia Smolenskaya X X X X Murinskaya X X X X Neva X X X X Zvezdnyi X X X X Fazer Bakery Latvia ISO 9001 Quality Management System Standard Ogre ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Standard Fazer Bakery Lithuania Kaunas OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Management 18001 System Standard Fazer Mills Lahti X AIB certificate FSSC 22000 Food Safety System Certification Lidköping X X X BRC Food Safety Standard Fazer Food Services Restaurants Finland X X Food Standard (food safety and quality of IFS processes and products) ISO 9001 certificate covers FFSE Restaurants Sweden X X Headquarters and 2 units AIB Food Safety Audit by AIB International 38 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Fazer's corporate responsibility goals and achievements Goals Achievements in 2016 2017 and onwards Running business – Fazer creates prosperity for the company, stakeholders and the society. • Secure profitable business and growth • Human Rights Impact Assessments carried out in the Group and Fazer • Securing the long term continuity of the business • Identify new business opportunities and savings potential Confectionery • Understanding the global risks and mitigating their impacts via corporate responsibility • Two recognitions for corporate responsibility work in Russia by acting in a sustainable manner • Manage issues which affect Fazer's reputation • Third place in Finland’s Reputation and Trust survey; positive development • Continuing active stakeholder dialogue • Follow Fazer's ethical principles in all businesses of reputation in Sweden and Russia • Identifying new business opportunities that support • Secure and increase brand value • Economic Value Added was 634 M€ sustainable development • Bring added value to stakeholders • Return on equity was 7.6 per cent, a 57.2 per cent increase from 2015 • Continuing the work with Human Rights: development of • Paid 43 M€ in taxes and 115 M€ in employer's contributions; collected the grievance and remediation processes 156 M€ of VAT, payroll and other taxes • Identifying cost saving possibilities via corporate • Active stakeholder dialogue responsibility work • Deepening the understanding on the UN SDGs and Fazer’s contribution in realisation of the goals For health and well-being – A balance of healthy nutrition and moments of indulgence. • Develop responsible offering • Published Fazer’s approach to a balanced diet • Continue to expand Fazer’s offering with products that • Transparently communicate with consumers and other • Launched the Fazer Brainhow programme to examine the connection support well-being stakeholders about topics related to health and well-being between nutrition and cognitive ability • Continue working with increasing vegetable use during • Participate in studies on food, health and sustainability • Published long-term research and launched the innovative low-FODMAP 2017 with several actions rye bread • Participate in addressing and mitigating obesity and salt and • Created Nudging Handbook to help restaurants increase the share of sugar consumption vegetables • Continue to engage in stakeholder dialogue and research • Introduced new bread products and the Baked Health thumb symbol, cooperation in health-related topics denoting benefits to well-being, to respond to the health trend • Implement Fazer’s approach to a balanced diet and portion • Piloted and developed further the Lasten Liike exercise initiative for control in everyday work school children 39 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Goals Achievements in 2016 2017 and onwards People matter – Fazer takes great pride in its committed and skilled people. • To have talented, motivated and healthy people, and lead • Increased understanding of diversity and provided training possibilities • Continue to integrate the High Performance Culture and them in an inspiring manner through the 125 Opportunities for Working Life initiative Fazer Behaviours into everyday work • Respect all employees and offer them an equal working • Launched a Safety Engineering Programme in Fazer Bakery • Enhance safety work to achieve zero accidents community through meaningful work and a safe working • Launched a mentoring programme • Further develop the job rotation process environment • Renewed Fazer Academy • Continue to work with diversity • Further develop a diversified working community • Increased internal job rotation • Develop an extended talent ecosystem • Agreed on group-level Flexible Ways of Working Instruction • Finalise Fazer’s HR vision 2022 • Implemented local action plans according to the People Power survey results: focus on development areas • Local action plans resulting in significant decrease of sick leaves in Finland Fair value chain – Responsible sourcing benefits everyone across the value chain. • Constantly improve the level of responsibility and • Increased share of responsible cocoa to 85 per cent • Continue systematic development of responsibility and strengthen cooperation in the value chain • Used 92 per cent segregated palm oil for confectionery products cooperation in the value chain • Improve traceability in the supply chain and secure food (8 per cent RSPO Mass Balance or RSPO Book & Claim) • Continue to improve traceability quality and safety • Received top score with full points in WWF’s Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard 2016 • Continue development of direct programmes together • Control and mitigate responsibility risks related to the raw • 73 per cent of fish used in Sweden certified and 78 per cent of fish used in with cocoa farmers material base Finland green-listed by WWF Seafood Guide • Continue the Grain Vision activities • Common target established for responsible soy use • Review of Fazer's Commitment to Responsible • Supplied 61 per cent domestic produce in restaurants in Finland, 55 per Palm Oil in 2017 cent in Denmark and 50 per cent in Sweden • Work towards achieving the responsible soy target • Developed the Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Long Term Plan • Continue monitoring the share of domestic sourcing in • 19 of Fazer’s production sites certified according to the FSSC 22000 food Fazer Food Services safety standard • Continue the certification process of Fazer sites • In Sweden, Fazer Food Services’ main processes, headquarters and two • Continue systematic work to ensure food safety and quality restaurants were certified to ISO 9001 quality management standard 40 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Goals Achievements in 2016 2017 and onwards Part of the environment – We rely on the resources nature gives us. • Reduce climate impact and increase energy efficiency • Energy mappings carried out in operating countries within the EU • Move forward with the Zero Deforestation Commitment • Prevent waste and loss of raw materials • Energy use decreased by 4 per cent per produced tonne • Continue progress on the Fazer Grain Vision • Manage and use water resources responsibly • Share of renewable electricity increased to 86 per cent • Continue to work to raise awareness of environmentally • Support sustainable farming and prevent loss of biodiversity • Waste reduction targets adopted for Fazer Bakery and Fazer sustainable food production • Raise environmental awareness Confectionery • Evaluation of water issues in production and the value • Fazer Grain Vision – Development of Fazer’s Sustainable Grain Farming chain, and development of a Water Plan Principles • Continue efforts to improve energy efficiency at Fazer sites • Development of Zero Deforestation Commitment; identification of raw materials that may cause deforestation • Fazer Food Services Sweden certified to new requirements in updated ISO 14001 • New sites certified to ISO 14001 and to Miljøfyrtårn 41 This little cocoa pod, growing in the garden at the Fazer Experience Visitor Centre, represents the most important raw material in chocolate. In the beginning of 2017, all cocoa used by Fazer was responsibly produced. Welcome to our new Fazer Experience Visitor Centre visitfazer.com Find us online: fazergroup.com | fazer.com | fazer.fi | fazer.se | fazer.ru | fazer.ee | fazer.lt | fazer.lv | fazer.dk | fazer.no Facebook Snapchat Pinterest YouTube Twitter Instagram Linkedin 42
