S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 S-OIL GOOD OIL About This Report Reporting Scope S-OIL has published an annual Sustainability Report since 2008. This is the 10th Sustainability Report covering the Company’s activities at the Head Office in Seoul, the Onsan Refinery, terminals, and sales offices from January through December 2016. All performance indicators and related data cover three-year trends, from 2014 to 2016, and important management initiatives include some data that extend into 2017. Data that is subject to frequent changes, such as information on human resources, was reported as of December 31, the last day of each fiscal year, with footnotes provided in special cases. Financial data was drawn in compliance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Guidelines The 2016 S-OIL Sustainability Report adopted GRI G4 Guidelines1) and added annotations when applying the Company’s management standards. Assurance The reliability of this Report was verified by an independent and objective assurance institution based on the AA1000AS (2008)2) and ISAE30003) International Assurance Standards. The Assurance Report can be found in the appendix of this Report. Communication with Stakeholders Sustainability Management at S-OIL starts from communication with stakeholders. The framework of this Report changed from management principles to C.E.O. (Customers, Employees, Owners & other stakeholders) for communication with stakeholders. We conducted a wide range of stakeholder surveys and interviews to identify their concerns and expectations and to introduce our management policies as presented by the top management. Additional Information & Inquiries This Report and additional information on S-OIL’s Sustainability Management can be accessed via our website (www.s-oil.com). Please contact the Sustainability Management Team (82-2-3772-5238, sustainability@s-oil.com) for additional information about this Report. 1) GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guidelines provide Sustainability Report Guidelines that were written and revised by the GRI in 2013. The GRI was established by CERES and UNEP. 2) AA1000AS provides International Verification Standards used to evaluate the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of Sustainability Reports. 3) ISAE3000 provides International Verification Standards governing the reliability of information other than financial data. C Contents Introduction 26 CEO’s Greetings 2 Corporate Profile 4 Sustainability Management Scheme 6 Message of Top Management 8 Value Creation & Impact Valuation 10 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Test 12 Issue 1 Communicating with Stakeholders 14 Customers 37 Business Fundamental Corporate Governance 16 Compliance Management 18 Ethics Management 20 Risk Management 22 E Sustainable & Profitable Growth Issue 2 Customers Employees C01 Realization of Customer Satisfaction 27 C02 Product Quality Assurance 30 O C03 Enhancement of Marketing Activities 33 C04 Protection of Customers’ Personal Information / 35 Fair Competition in the Market Employees E01 HR Management / Fair Evaluation & Compensation 38 E02 Talent Cultivation 40 E03 Healthy Corporate Culture / Establishment of 42 Harmonized Labor-Management Relations E04 Industrial Safety & Health Management 45 47 Owners & Other Stakeholders O01 Investment in New Projects 48 O02 Improvement of Operational Efficiency 50 O03 Establishment of Financial Soundness / 52 Transparent Management Information Disclosure O04 Management of Sustainability in Supply Chain 55 Issue 3 O05 Environment Management 57 Owners & O06 Response to Climate Change 61 Other O07 Social Contribution Activities Stakeholders 63 O08 Contribution to Local Communities 66 Performance Review Key Sustainability Management Performances 70 Appendix Independent Assurance Statement 80 GRI G4 Index / UNGC Index 82 Accolades & Recognitions / Association Memberships 88 Introduction CEO’s Greetings S-OIL will continue to enhance corporate value and make uppermost efforts to become the most competitive and admired energy and chemical company in Asia Pacific. 2 Respectable stakeholders of S-OIL necessary regulations and systems to routinize ethics management and compliance in day-toOn the occasion of publishing the 2016 Sustainday business operations. And we have improved ability Report, I would like to express my sincere internal systems so that our employees can grow gratitude to all stakeholders for your confidence and realize their full potential at the Company. and constant support to S-OIL. Most of all, S-OIL is making uppermost efforts to S-OIL has firmly established the foundation for enhance social and environmental values by safesustainable growth by striving to create values ty management, environmental protection, CSR that equally serve the interest of the environment activities, etc. We have cut back on greenhouse and society as well as the economy. In 2016, the gas emission through companywide energy savCompany successfully conducted investments ing activities, and have faithfully complied with and business activities to reinforce the competthe carbon emission trading scheme launched in itiveness in existing businesses and to set a new 2015. Safety is the overriding value at S-OIL as we foundation for future growth. We also made conlook to upgrade safety management system to tinuous efforts for minimizing environmental efworld-class and implant our safety-first culture fects of our business and creating values shared to contractors thus promoting mutual growth. with society as a corporate citizen. Furthermore, we also spread the value of sharing through differentiated, systematic CSR programs First, on economic aspect, the Company successto make social contribution and preserve the ecofully completed the S-OIL Upgrading Project of system. Existing Refinery (SUPER Project) in the first half of this year to enhance the operational efficiency In recognition of various efforts that we have of existing production facilities. The Residue Upmade, as such, S-OIL was named as one of World grading Complex & Olefin Downstream Complex Companies in Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Project (RUC/ODC Project), which is the largest (DJSI), the world’s leading authority in the field of investment by the Company in its history, is maksustainability management, for seven years in a ing smooth progress toward start-up in 2018. This row until 2016. We also received the outstanding project will let us make significant improvement award in the ESG (Environment, Society & Govon profitability and secure future growth engines ernance) Evaluation by Korea Corporate Goverby foraying into petrochemical downstream. nance Service for five consecutive years. What is more, S-OIL will contribute more to the national economy and local communities by creGoing forward, S-OIL will continue to enhance ating tremendous values and jobs. corporate value and make uppermost efforts to become the most competitive and admired enerOur efforts to secure a stable sales foundation gy and chemical company in Asia Pacific. paid off. Our share of the domestic retail light oil I would like to ask for warm-hearted interest and market reached the highest level in our history. advice from our stakeholders. Strategic sales outlets were expanded in overseas markets by securing additional customers Thank you very much. in new areas. The Company successfully secured largescale financing for the RUC/ODC Project at competitive costs, while still maintaining a sound financial structure and credit ratings. S-OIL also defined ethics management and compliance as ones of its core values for ensuring the transparRepresentative Director & CEO ency of corporate governance, and established Othman Al-Ghamdi S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 3 Introduction Corporate Profile S-OIL is committed to remaining a responsible corporate citizen by meeting the needs and expectations of diverse stakeholders. Fuel Business line (ULSG). Currently, the Company exports high quality environment-friendly No. of employees Since S-OIL began the commercial operaoil products to Asia, the U.S., Europe, and tion of its 1st oil refinery with a capacity of Oceania, generating added value in over3,128 persons 90,000 barrels/day in 1980, it has expandseas markets. ed facilities on two occasions, and today, Total assets S-OIL is a large oil refining company with Products gasoline, premium gasoline, kerosene, diesel, aviation a refining capacity of 669,000 barrels/ gasoline, LPG, bunker-A, bunker-C, LSFO, asphalt, and KRW 14 trillion day. The Company proactively responded more. Business sites to the growing demand for light oil products and the toughening environmental Lube Business Head Office Marketing, finance, general services regulations globally, launching the large upgradability facilities of Bunker-C CrackEver since its foundation in 1976 as the first Onsan Refinery ing Center (BCC) to produce all kinds of lube oriented oil refinery in South Korea, Production and shipping products which were hardened or low-sulS-OIL has been the leading manufacturer furized ahead of its rivals in 1996. Extractof lube base oils in domestic market by 13 Product terminals/depots Product storage and shipping ing expensive hard oil from less expensive localizing premium base oils which had high-sulfur bunker-C, the BCC opened a been entirely imported. The Company 3 District Business HQs/22 domestic new chapter in the history of the oil refinemployed Gulf’s hydro-treating process and 4 overseas sales offices Product sales ing industry as it resulted in domestic reand Texaco’s MEK dewaxing process, both finery business, only regarded as a simple of which were the latest technology then, Affiliated companies S-OIL Total Lubricants Co., Ltd. manufacturing industry, transforming into in the early stage of business. Later, by A 50:50 joint venture with France’s a high-value exportation industry. This facombining ExxonMobil’s MLDW (Mobile TOTAL cility is a new concept high-tech processLube Dewaxing) process, the Company S-International Ltd. ing facility that increased the handling rose as a premium base oil producer with A 100%-owned overseas subsidiary amount while maintaining relatively low a capacity of 8,000 B/D of base oil. In 2002, costs. Thanks to this facility, S-OIL stands the Company upgraded hydrocracker fahigh as the leading oil refining company, cilities and began to produce Very High VI while achieving high valuing of products base oil. Today, S-OIL is one of the largest and optimization of all production facilbase oil makers producing 42,700 barrels ities. In the past, the oil refining industry of GroupⅢ and GroupⅡ base oils. was generally known for having facilities to meet domestic demand, but S-OIL focused on pioneering overseas markets from the beginning. Based on the BCC which is a global-standard enhancement facility, the Company plays an important role as the hub of hard oil provision in the Asia Pacific region. S-OIL started to export environment-friendly and high-value Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel (ULSD) for the first time in Korea in 2001. From 2005, the Company started to export Ultra Low Sulfur Gaso4 Production Capacity Since 1989 when the Company launched the petrochemical business. This was an lubricant business, S-OIL has solidified its opportunity to provide the foundation to Sales Revenue in 2016 status as the leading lubricant company acquire competition superiority in the petof change and innovation. S-OIL produces ro-chemistry downstream sector. In 2011, the high-end lubricant brand “S-OIL SEVS-OIL built the 2nd Aromatic Complex KRW EN” and the highly economical product composed of the aromatic facility that 16.3 trillion “Dragon.” S-OIL Total Lubricant Co., Ltd., produces BTX and the 2nd Xylene Center a JV which was set up in 2008 with TOTAL that produces para-xylene, which is the Raffinage Marketing S.A., produces and base material of compound fiber. With the sells the Company’s lubricant products. operation of this facility, S-OIL obtained leading competitiveness in the petroCrude Distillation Fuel Business Products chemical business, as well as in the lubri669,000 B/D Ultra-S base oil (Ultra-S2, 3, 4, 6, 8), Super base oil Bunker-C Cracking cant and oil refining business, while run(S-8, 31, 96), Premium base oil (P-8, 20, 31, 96, 116, 480), 142,000 B/D S-OIL SEVEN, Dragon, and more ning the 600,000 ton benzene production KRW Bunker-C facility and the 1.7 million ton para-xylene Desulfurization 109,000 B/D 12.5 trillion Petrochemical Business production facility. S-OIL is now entering Diesel and Kerosene the olefin downstream business through Desulfurization S-OIL, committed to delivering products its RUC/ODC Project. The successful com120,000 B/D of added values, diversified its business pletion of the RUC/ODC Project in 2018 will portfolio once again in 1991 when it comlay the groundwork to realize the CompaUltra-S Base Oil Lube Business mercialized the Naphtha Reforming Plant ny’s “Vision 2025” of becoming the “most 29,000 B/D Super Base Oil and BTX production facilities. In 1997, the competitive and admired energy & chemi5,100 B/D Company constructed the Xylene Center, cal company in Asia Pacific,” along with its KRW Premium Base Oil the largest in the world as a single process, business expansion in the petrochemical 8,600 B/D 1.3 trillion with an annual production capacity of industry. 700,000 tons, ushering in the petro-chemistry era for the Company. In this way, Products the residue fluidized catalytic cracking benzene, toluene, xylene, para-xylene, propylene, and more (RFCC) unit started to produce 200,000 Benzene Petrochemical Business tons of propylene in 1997 and expanded 600,000 tons/year Para-xylene 1,830,000 tons/year KRW Propylene 200,000 tons/year 2.5 trillion S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 5 Introduction Sustainability Sustainability management at S-OIL starts from understanding the expecManagement tations of what we call C.E.O. --Customers, Employees, and Owners & other stakeholders. By correctly understanding what they expect of us and what Scheme we have to do to meet their expectations, we are making a concerted effort to maximize their economic, environmental, and social values, with their expectations reflected in our management policies. Thus, we will achieve our Vision 2025 of becoming the “most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific.” The most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia VISION Pacific, with excellence in operations, strategic investment, and human talent 2025 Company-level goals Strategic Core Value that measure success in Target achieving the vision Passion We aspire with a burning desire to aim higher than ever before to achieve our dream, fueled by boundless energy, strong motivation, and a can-do spirit. Common values that guide our decision Core and action under any circumstances Value Excellence We thirst to learn, adapt, and evolve constantly to surpass expectations and deliver nothing but the best quality, service, and profitability. Top management's high Integrity Strategic priority agendas that best Objective support the achievement We never compromise on our commitment to honesty, of vision fairness, and the highest moral and ethical standards embracing them as essential values to our ultimate success. Sharing Potential investment items to realize Investment We share our success with the communities where we live growth Roadmap and work as a responsible and model corporate citizen. Customers Employees Owners & other stakeholders Collaboration We work together as a team to keep raising the bar of success by sharing knowledge, opportunities and best practices. 6 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 7 Introduction Message of Top Management S-OIL is striving to maximize C.E.O.’s In its pursuit of future growth engine to enIn the face of the fast-changing management economic, environmental, and social sure sustainable growth, S-OIL concentrates environment, S-OIL has set forth the Vision company-wide resources and capabilities 2025, a new goal to advance the Company’s values, with their expectations into the RUC/ODC Project. Once completed, strategic system to attain sustainable growth. reflected in its management policies, the project will enable the Company to furThe Company will rise as the most competiand thus achieve its Vision 2025 of ther strengthen the production capacity of tive and admired energy & chemical company becoming the “most competitive and gasoline and other value-added products in Asia Pacific by achieving the strategic goals while expanding its business portfolio into prescribed in the renewed corporate vision admired energy & chemical company olefin downstream in addition to existing – exploring new business opportunities and in Asia Pacific.” fuel, lube, and petrochemical business. The commercialization. balanced business portfolio will also make At the very core of the Vision 2025 is the cultia great contribution to the profitability and vation of creative and competent employees. reliability of the Company. What is more, the Through a transparent and fair recruitment Company continues to reinforce operational system, the Company attracts people of iniexcellence by executing a variety of profit-imtiative and sound philosophy who value auprovement activities such as SUPER Project tonomy and teamwork. Our systematic trainaimed at boosting the profitability of existing ing programs ensure that employees at S-OIL facilities. will grow into integral assets for the CompaS-OIL delivers top quality products and serny’s future. What is more, our reasonable and vices at most competitive prices. The Comfair HR system and rewarding policies lead to pany’s marketing activities are built around a performance-based corporate culture. The customers’ needs to ensure they reap real New Pension Program brings balance to work benefits. The Company conducts programs and family as an advanced rewarding system. designed to help service stations and LPG S-OIL fulfills its responsibility as a corpofilling stations sharpen competitiveness and rate citizen as it engages with stakeholders builds lasting relations with them, thus seekin different social contribution initiatives. ing sustainable win-win growth. The Company carries out social responsiS-OIL is committed to creating the safest and bility campaigns---“For Heroes,” “For Envimost environmentally friendly worksite in the ronment,” “For Local Community,” and “For world. Our preemptive and well-designed Needy People”---to benefit not just the Comsafety management system and environment pany itself but society in general. management system ensure that we stand S-OIL pledges to fulfill its social accountabilready for increasingly stringent regulations. ity as a corporate citizen and grow together We strive to prevent safety accidents by inwith its employees in the best working envivesting in safety, health, and the environment ronment. As we come united under the Vision on a lasting basis. 2025, we will explore opportunities in new S-OIL pledges to endeavor to deliver sustainmarkets to secure future growth engine and able growth as the Company seeks to secure enhance the competitiveness of existing busifuture growth engine, improve operational ness, thus achieving sustainable growth for excellence, conduct customer-oriented marour stakeholders. keting activities, and build a world-class safety, health, and environmental culture. Yul Ryu President / Bong-Soo Park Head of Corporate Strategy & Services President / Head of Operations 8 Amid uncertainties in the management enviThough a latecomer to the domestic market At S-OIL, decisions are made by directors with ronment, a company’s competitive edge lies that was then already saturated, S-OIL exbest-in-class expertise and experience under in stability in its financial structure and effipanded into overseas markets from the early transparent and sound governance in obserciency in the operation of limited resources. stage of its establishment. It now generates vance of rules and regulations. This system S-OIL’s insightful investment and firm finanmore than 50% of sales outside Korea, conensures that corporate value is best genercial structure lead to outstanding perfortributing to the national economy. ated by meeting stakeholders’ needs on ecomance. Having invested in upgrading facilities ahead nomic, social, and environmental fronts. Although S-OIL is currently raising a considof rivals, the Company obtained the world’s At S-OIL, there are three subcommittees unerable amount of capital to finance the RUC/ No. 1 price competitiveness and quality. der the Board of Directors (BOD) making the ODC Project, the Company retains the No. 1 S-OIL is solidifying its presence in the globmost well-informed decisions in the face of credit rating in the domestic refining indusal market by making flexible responses to the fast-evolving business environment. try. S-OIL is securing investment capital on toughening international standards. Led by the CEO who believes in the imporfavorable conditions as planned, thanks to its The Company’s persistent efforts at develtance of compliance and ethics management, excellent cash generation capabilities. oping overseas markets have turned the doS-OIL fulfills its role and accountability as a S-OIL maximizes corporate value as well as mestic refining industry, simply regarded as corporate citizen. shareholders’ value through a reasonable manufacturing business, into a value-added The Company’s compliance system ensures dividend policy which sustains balance beexport industry as it serves as the supply hub that laws and regulations are observed at evtween internal reserves for investment and of light oil products in Asia Pacific. ery phase of management activities. dividend payout. It also pays tax faithfully S-OIL will yet again reinforce global sales and Thus, the Ethics Committee renders reasonand shares economic value with a wide range develop new overseas markets by producing able and objective resolutions on ethical isof stakeholders, thus contributing to the dehigh added-value light oil products and petsues involving conflicts of interest. velopment of society and the nation. rochemical goods once the RUC/ODC Project S-OIL promises to practice compliance manS-OIL promises to retain stability in its finangoes into operation in 2018. agement and ethics management while cial structure and maximize its corporate Building on our rich expertise and know-how carrying out anti-human rights abuse and value by securing investment resources necin overseas marketing, we will reinforce a anti-corruption campaigns to grow together essary for sustainable growth. What is more, strategic partnership with our suppliers and with stakeholders. the Company will share information in a customers. We promise to strengthen martransparent manner and keep implementing keting capabilities in fuel, lube, and petroSung-Woo Park shareholder-friendly policies, while fulfilling chemical business, hence ensuring sustainSenior Vice President / the roles and responsibilities as a corporate able growth in the global market. Head of Legal & Compliance HQ citizen. Jong-Bum Ahn Young-Il Cho Executive Vice President / Executive Vice President / CFO Head of International Marketing S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 9 Introduction Value Creation 05 CREATED ECONOMIC VALUE Impact Valuation KRW 2,153.4 billion S-OIL generates economic values by supplying quality fuel and raw S-OIL contributes to the development of the national economy materials to the transportation, power generation, and petrochemical and society by creating social and environmental values as well as industries. The Company shares the values with diverse stakeholders distributing economic values it creates. In 2016, the Company meato contribute to the development of the national economy and society. sured social and environmental impacts it generated and reduced, S-OIL will commit itself to successfully completing the RUC/ODC and then translated them into a monetary value. Impacts of health Project, the largest investment in its history, hence creating a variety & safety, training support for business partners, green procureof added values, such as the invigoration of the local economy, the ment, and local procurement were measured to calculate social expansion of exports, and the creation of jobs, to contribute to the value, while impacts of greenhouse gas, air environment, water sustainable growth of the national economy and society. use, and waste were measured to assess environmental value. (Unit : KRW in billion) 189.0 3,292.2 1,913.5 -15.7 06 DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE 04 MARKETING & SALES Market Share for Retail Light Oil Products Employees Salary and pension 21.8 % KRW 478.9 billion 1,205.4 Business partners Procurement KRW 14,020.9 billion Local communities Earning Economic Social Environmental Impact Social contribution Dimension Dimension Dimension Valuation 03 TRANSPORTATION KRW 6.7billion Net Income Dividend, Health & GHG, Interest, Safety, Air, Environment Tax, Training for Water, Environmental investment Salary Business Waste Partners, KRW 16.1billion Green Purchasing, Local Purchasing 02 PRODUCTION Fuel Business 199,631 thousand barrels Lube Business 13,576 thousand barrels Petrochemical Business 21,298 thousand barrels 01 CRUDE OIL 231,185 thousand barrels 04 MARKETING & SALES Proportion of Export 56.6 % 10 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 11 Introduction Stakeholder S-OIL operates a variety of stakeholder engagement channels customized to Engagement each group’s characteristics in order to identify what their expectations are. We then establish action plans to fulfill these expectations in line with the Company’s strategic directions and initiatives. Ultimately, the results are reflected in the management plans and activities through analyses and reviews. pital Ca tio opera Individuals n Shareholders & Investors • VOC (Voice of Customer) system • Customer satisfaction survey • General shareholders’ meeting • Customer monitoring group (Supporters) • Consultation by telephone and e-mail • Customer suggestion system • Presentation, conference, and meeting for IR • Meeting with analysts m • Call center HR • Bonus Card website (and app.) an a • Disclosure on the website • Marketing idea contest ment • Visit to financial institutions ge • Meeting for credit rating Prod Su p uctio ply n Employees of se nd • Meetings with ts a uc the CEO od pr • Top management’s Business Partners visit to production rvice sites • Technical exchange • Employee meeting Our s Service Stations & Dealers • Safety workshop satisfaction survey Management • Presentation to support • Grievance handling • Support for training and Activities and service stations education on safety and committee Stakeholders • Visit to service stations health • Monthly employee • Service station magazine meeting • Education on treating waste • Corporate magazine • Labor• E-procurement system • Champions Club management • Visit to business partners Council • Honors Club • Employee • E-Biz suggestion system Local Communities • Ethics help desk • Company-wide • Public hearing and seminar business • Conference information • Visit to the Refinery Corporations session • Associational activities • Corporate • Sunshine-sharing activities • Strategic cooperation meeting magazine • Customer appreciation day • Evaluation by external • Intranet institutions • Dinners for customers • HR Webzine mu • Brochure nic atio n • Visit to customers • Workshop Com Government, NGOs, and Media • Public hearing • Seminars and conferences • Information exchange meeting • Response to surveys 12 Materiality Test This Sustainability Report contains economic, environmental, and social issues from the angles of C.E.O., our stakeholder groups, and based on global reporting guidelines. We conducted the materiality test through a survey targeting internal as well as external stakeholders and identified 27 key issues with a significant influence on our sustainability management activities. Materiality analysis process Materiality Matrix 20 Stakeholder Concerns 22 8 23 10 Step 1 24 6 9 12 Identifying sustainability manage21 7 13 ment issues (forming an issue pool) 1 18 26 27 2 • Benchmarking of global sustainability 3 19 25 5 initiatives and the industry at home 11 and abroad, media research (687 15 news articles covering the Company 4 14 by 10 major Korean newspapers in 2016), and customer opinions 17 received from VOC • A pool consisting of 30 issues 16 Business Impact Key Issues by C.E.O. (a total of 27 issues) Step 2 C.E.O. Key Issues Reporting Scope Stakeholders Page Evaluating stakeholders’ interest Inside and Outside 1 Realization of customer satisfaction Customers 27-29 and concerns (stakeholder survey) of S-OIL 2 Product quality assurance in the distribution stage 3 Promotion of fair marketing activities Customers, Government 30-32 • Surveyed on: Key sustainability Inside of S-OIL Customers 4 Reinforcement of R&D issues with significant influences 5 Enhancement of marketing activities Customers 33-34 on the Company and stakeholders 6 Enhancement of customers’ personal information Inside and among 30 issues in the pool protection Outside of S-OIL Customers, Government 35-36 7 Prevention of activities that impede fair competition • Period: 8 days (Feb. 1 to Feb. 8, 2017) 8 HR management • Targets: 5,619 stakeholders including 38-39 9 Fair evaluation and compensation customers, employees, and business 10 Talent cultivation 40-41 partners (response rate: 20.3%) Inside of S-OIL Employees 11 Healthy corporate culture • Survey media: Corporate groupware Employees 12 Establishment of harmonized labor-management 42-44 and e-mail relations Employees, Inside and Business partners, 13 Industrial safety and health management 45-46 Outside of S-OIL Local communities, Government 14 Investments in new projects Employees, 48-49 15 Efficiency improvement Shareholders & investors 50-51 16 Establishment of financial soundness Customers, Employees Inside of S-OIL Shareholders & investors, Business partners, 52-54 17 Transparent management information disclosure Local communities, Government Step 3 18 Management of sustainability in supply chain Inside and Outside Business partners 55-56 19 Fair selection of business partners of S-OIL Selecting key issues (review by the 20 Enhancement of environmental management system Employees, Owners & top management and materiality other 21 Management of air pollutants Inside of S-OIL Local communities, 57-60 matrix analysis) stakeholders 22 Management of environmental impact Government Customers, Shareholders & investors, • ‌Top management’s participation in 23 Economic impact by climate change Business partners, 61-62 the materiality test through a review Local communities, of selected issues Inside and Outside Government 24 Promotion of social contribution activities of S-OIL 63-65 • ‌Selected 27 key issues through Customers, 25 Evaluation of the factory’s impacts on local materiality matrix analysis communities Employees, Local communities, 66-67 26 Economic development of local communities Government 27 Treatment of grievances of local communities S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 13 Introduction Communicating with Stakeholders The sustainability management of S-OIL starts from communicating with stakeholders through diverse channels. In this regard, interviews were conducted before the publication of the Sustainability Report to listen to their opinions on sustainability management. The following has been extracted from some of the interviews. S-OIL gains an understanding of important economic, Q social, and environmental issues, and systematically manages them for sustainable growth of the Company uestion and stakeholders. How would you evaluate such efforts of the company? Anyone who frequently goes to a gas station will tell you that price and qualA nswer ity are the key factors when choosing a gas station. I am generally satisfied with both. I believe S-OIL has high price competitiveness because it does not have separate sales organizations that would need additional margins. S-OIL has fewer stations compared to competitors, but they are currently on the increase, so I look forward to better accessibility in the future. Seo Hyung-woo, Customer, S-OIL Supporters A A nswer nswer Since the 1990s, S-OIL has conducted S-OIL puts a lot of effort into prothree large-scale investments in faciltection of private information, ities, including the current large-scale and actively recommends emproject. Particularly, the current projployees of partner companies to ect was a bold investment decision to participate in personal informachoose at a time when domestic oil tion protection education. Howcompanies recorded unprecedented ever, there is a limit to the participation in other self-developdeficits after the sudden drop in interment education or awareness improvement programs as the national oil prices. However, S-OIL has contract between S-Oil and our company was made for just IT secured a stable financial structure outsourcing. S-OIL needs to develop a relationship with busiand sufficient financial liquidity backed by achieving a record high ness partners that goes beyond a simple contract for shared profit in the previous year, which allows the smooth investments growth. In this respect, I think the company could also think underway. I believe the efforts for business diversification and apabout systematic improvements so partner company employpropriate investment decisions at the right time are S-OIL’s biggest ees can work with a sense of ownership of S-Oil. points of competitiveness and driving force of sustainable growth. Lee Seung-youn, Expert Adviser, Kim Min-jong, Manager, Hyundai Information Technology Yeoeui-do Corporate Banking Center of Shinhan Bank 14 What are your hopes for Q sustainable growth of S-OIL? uestion A nswer Gas stations that only sell certified S-OIL products are called “Trustworthy Service Stations.” However, consumers do not fully understand this concept. It might be a lack of promotion, or it might be because gas station owners are burdened by the promise to be a “Trustworthy Service Station.” In order to activate this system and raise faith of customers, the Company must select gas stations that have passed thorough inspections and quality evaluations and allow only them to attach the sign, for differentiation. Nam Chul-joong, President, Ssangyong Gas Station in Hwaseong-si There is a low proportion of female employees and managers in the petrochemicals industry. S-OIL is no exception. However, the percentage of managers and general manager is continuously increasing through promotions each year. A new female team leader was recently appointed, and I believe having more female managers will lead to a bright future for the company. Female executives will be produced before long as a lot of talented female employees are working at S-OIL. Our company has good maternity leave and childcare leave systems that employees can freely use. However, paternity leave is not taken actively yet, in Korea as a whole. S-OIL is a leading company in terms of work culture and social contributions, and I look forward to the Company encouraging men to A A nswer actively take paternity leave, too. nswer Lee Yoo-jin, Employee, S-OIL PP Business Team The strength of the social contribution activities of S-OIL lies in beneficiary-focused continuous supports. Continuous activities are important from the beneficiary’s position. Therefore, I think S-OIL is doing a good job. However, the Sustainability Report shows that the overall amount used for social contribution is decreasing. As a partner, I would like them to continue to expand. I also hope S-OIL employees spend more time on volunteering services for local communities. S-OIL supports the culture and arts events for local communities. I would like to suggest holding performances once or twice in an open outside space, to encourage participation of local communities, and for promotional effects. Kim Shin-eui, Manager, Korea National Council on Social Welfare S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 15 Business Fundamental Corporate S-OIL has established a transparent and sound corporate governance structure Governance through organizing the Board of Directors (BOD) and subcommittees with diversity and rich expertise and ensuring an appropriate level of checks and balances in their activities. Balance between Diversity and action with the Company are comprehenIndependence of the BOD sively taken into consideration. For outside Transparent and sound directors, in particular, the Outside Director corporate governance is the Candidates Recommendation Committee bedrock of ensuring corporate S-OIL nominates director candidates with transparency and productivity diversity including nationality, race, genconsisting of four outside directors directly improvement. It also der, etc. and expertise to ensure that varrecommends the most suitable candidates contributes to gaining trust from diverse stakeholders ious stakeholders’ interests are duly repto the general shareholders’ meeting, after and elevating corporate value, thereby becoming an resented and mutual complement can be evaluating the candidates in accordance essential element of corporate maintained in accordance with ready-made with internal standards to confirm that they sustainable growth. internal procedures. They are officially have no vested interest in the Company or appointed as directors at the shareholdany other reasons for disqualification. The ers’ meeting. Further, to ensure the indeBOD, newly launched in 2017, consisted of pendence of the BOD, a candidate is also directors with professionalism in the fields screened for factors that may be material of engineering, economy, trade, accountto that director’s ability to be independent. ing, audit, and administration. Having Thus, whether he/she is working or has served in various fields, such as the governbeen working for the Company for the past ment, international organizations, industry, five years, whether he/she is engaging or and academia, they will greatly contribute has been engaged in any audit or consulting to enhancing the expertise and indepenservice for the Company, and whether he/ dence of the BOD. she has any material relationship or transCorporate Governance Rating in 2016 BOD Composition (as of March 30, 2017) (Korea Corporate Governance Service) Classification Name Position & Duty Service Term Inside Director (1) Othman Al Ghamdi ˙Representative Director & CEO Sep. 5, 2016~ A.I. Al-Saadan Mar. 18, 2016~ Non-standing S.A. Al-Hadrami ˙Member of the Compensation Committee Mar. 20, 2015~ Directors (4) A.M. Al-Hereagi Mar. 18, 2016~ N.A. Al-Nuaim ˙Chairman of the Audit Committee Y.A. Al-Zaid Mar. 18, 2016~ ˙Member of the ODCR Committee ˙Member of the Audit Committee A.A. Al-Talhah ˙Member of the ODCR Committee ˙Member of the Compensation Committee C. S. Kim ˙Chairman of the BOD Outside Directors (6) S. W. Lee ˙Chairman of the ODCR Committee Mar. 20, 2015~ ˙Chairman of the Compensation Committee S. W. Hong ˙Member of the Audit Committee ˙Member of the Audit Committee E. S. Shin ˙Member of the ODCR Committee Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders ˙Member of the Compensation Committee 16 Balance between Checks and Enhancement of Expertise Cooperation of the BOD S-OIL seeks to establish sound and transTo enhance the expertise of the BOD, parent corporate governance led by the S-OIL submits a monthly report to direcBOD and subcommittees pursuing checks tors on economic, social, and environand cooperation. The BOD members are mental issues that may affect the Comindividually appointed to serve a one-year pany’s sustainability. Moreover, in order term at the shareholders’ meeting and into support the directors’ reasonable dedependent outside directors hold over the cision-making, a pre-meeting to handle BOD members’ visit to the Onsan Refinery majority. The roles of the BOD chairman business status, risks, and major agenda and the CEO have been separated and all is held before the BOD convenes. The BOD members except for the CEO who is an inregularly visits the Onsan Refinery to stay side director are non-standing directors. abreast of the Company’s operational staThis allows the BOD to objectively and intus. We plan to invite the BOD members to dependently oversee and check the manthe sites in which we are making a massive agement activities and performances of investment. In addition, S-OIL has three the CEO and the Company. Thus, decisions subcommittees in support of the BOD’s are always made in a way that maximizes independence and efficient decision-makthe value of stakeholders including shareing: the Audit Committee, the Compensaholders. tion Committee, and the Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Committee. Also, the Management Committee contributes to enhancing the Company’s sustainable growth by pre-analyzing critical issues on social, economic, and environmental fronts to ensure the BOD’s reasonable decision-making on annual and longterm management plans, budget, and labor policy. Ratio of outside directors Independency Policy of Outside Director (as of March 30, 2017) To help the BOD conduct independent and objective decision-making for the protection of the rights of shareholders and investors, S-OIL appoints outside directors who satisfy the following independency policy. Existing outside directors also lose their posts when they cannot meet the independency policy. 1. Directors, executive directors and employees who are engaged in the regular business of the rel 54.5 % evant company, or directors, auditors, executive directors and employees who have engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the last two years; 2. The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants, in cases where the largest shareholder is a natural person; 3. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation, in cases where the largest *6 Outside Directors of Total 11 Directors shareholder is the corporation; 4. The spouses, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants of directors, auditors and executive directors; 5. The directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary com pany of the relevant company; 6. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has a significant inter est in the relevant company, such as business relations with the company; and 7. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of another company for which directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors and executive directors. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 17 Business Fundamental Compliance Led by the CEO with a firm sense of compliance, S-OIL takes compliance manageManagement ment as its top priority in becoming a global major energy and chemical company. The Company operates a system to ensure that all employees comply with regulations in their everyday work. Compliance Management as Activities to Comply with the ImpropCorporate Culture er Solicitation and Graft Act New regulations are S-OIL conducted comprehensive complion the rise recently Employees at S-OIL examine whether a ance activities, such as educating its ofregarding occupational safety, environment, antitask meets compliance standards before ficers and employees on what they must corruption, and fair trade. undertaking the job and look into legal observe while performing their duties, in With punishment increasingly issues which may be involved. The Compaan effort to fully comply with the Improper getting stringent for violations, stakeholders’ expectations on ny provides employees with the latest upSolicitation and Graft Act (the “Anti-Graft compliance are rising. It is, dates on law amendment and revision in Act”) that took effect in Sep. 2016. therefore, critical to comply with global regulations for a real time while offering education on and company to sustain growth. monitoring key laws. Compliance activities are reported to the management on ·Education on the Act for executives and a regular basis. Furthermore, S-OIL builds team leaders · Publication and distribution of guidelines its unique compliance culture through · Checklist-based autonomous inspection the proactive participation of the man· Monitoring of autonomous inspection on compliance activities agement and employees. The Company · Publication and distribution of the also enhances employees’ awareness of “Do’s & Don’ts” compliance by compliance newsletters, · Operation of standard articles and pledge reports of compliance by global corporations, and compliance campaigns. S-OIL 12 Compliance Activities reinforces compliance management Violations of the Improper through in-depth analysis of laws and reg1. Regular Inspection Solicitation and Graft Act in 2016 ulations, guidelines, and, customized ed2. Priority Management 3. Frequent/Special Monitoring ucation. It is through these programs that 4. Legal Update S-OIL’s compliance activities have been 5. Legal Information Meeting 0 case recognized as excellent by the media. 6. CEO Legal Update 7. Management Report 8. Profile Update 9. Compliance Guide Update 10. Compliance Education 11. Compliance Campaign 12. Compliance Newsletter Hankook Daily’s report (Jan. 20, 2016) 18 Workshop on Anti-Graft Act Appropriate Response to Compliance Monitoring System Legal Disputes Violations of internal regulations in 2016 S-OIL abides by global regulations and is S-OIL introduced the compliance monMonitoring of the Compliance thus trusted by stakeholders as it takes itoring system in 2011 to minimize the with Regulations preventive measures against potential chances of work confusion and risks due to legal disputes and makes appropriate renegligence. The Company conducts comsponses if an actual conflict arises. In 2016, pliance monitoring against 120 checklists 0 case S-OIL won the case against Korea National Oil Corporation over the tax reimburseon 37 regulations on a quarterly basis. The results are reflected in the performance ment on oil imports and protected the assessment of team leaders and the heads interests of the Company’s shareholders of divisions to encourage employees’ voland customers. The victory confirmed untary compliance with in-house regulathat S-OIL complied with laws and regutions. lations in performing business. Korea National Oil Corporation had clawed back KRW 32.8 billion in oil import tax return from S-OIL after judging that the waste gas generated in the oil refinery was not eligible for tax exemption. In response, S-OIL filed a lawsuit claiming that the judgement was a misinterpretation of the current law, resulting in the court ruling in favor of the Company. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 19 Business Fundamental Ethics At S-OIL, ethics management consists of three organically connected pillars: Management Code of Business Ethics & Conduct; Ethics Committee; and Education on Ethics Management. Methodical Ethics chances of conflict of interests make a Management System transaction with S-OIL, the Ethics ComFor a business to ensure a longmittee must review the trade to prevent term survival and generate high Code of Business Ethics and Conduct violation of ethics regulations. In 2016, economic values, sustainable growth must be achieved by The Code of Business Ethics and Conduct the Ethics Committee convened 27 times addressing incorrect practices consists of two parts; Code of Business and deliberated on 76 cases, out of which according to ethical standards. Ethics stipulates attitudes toward cusonly one was found to be a violation of the Ethics management is what a company must observe and is tomers, business partners, shareholders, Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. The the key management principle and investors as well as responsibilities to case was a “financial transaction between that the management as well as employees has to put into employees, society and the community; an employee and a customer,” so the practice. and Code of Conduct defines basic ethics Company took disciplinary action against for employees, prohibition of conflict of the employee according to internal reguinterests, prohibition of bribery/entertainlations, shared the details with all officers ment/convenience, and reporting process and employees, and gave education to of violations. Our business partners, subofficers and employees in sales offices to sidiaries and joint ventures are required to prevent the recurrence of similar cases. abide by the Code of Business Ethics and The Committee reports activities to the Conduct. Business partners, in particular, CEO and the Audit Committee on a regular must sign and submit the “Pledge of Code basis, while disclosing its activities to all Deliberations of the of Ethics” to register as a vender company. employees through the S-OIL Ethics ManEthics Committee in 2016 If our suppliers are found to be involved agement website. Others Operation of sales in legal violations or unethical acts, they 7cases networks 17cases may either be excluded from partners’ list Education on Ethics Management or face disadvantage. S-OIL updates the S-OIL offers education on ethics manageCode of Business Ethics and Conduct on ment tailored for different positions and 76 cases a regular basis by reflecting the changing job functions to raise employees’ ethisocial standards on ethics and reviewing cal awareness in daily business activities ethics regulations of leading global comwhile inviting outside experts for special Purchasing of panies. lecture. In 2016, seven courses on ethics products and services 52cases management were offered. For the comEthics Committee pany-wide ethics management, in particS-OIL operates the Ethics Committee conular, S-OIL held education on the ImpropEducation Hours of Ethics Management for S-OIL Employees in 2016 sisting of four officers: three officers for er Solicitation and Graft Act given by an Legal & Compliance, HR, and Corporate outside expert. Also in March 2016, casePlanning Divisions, respectively, and the based marketers’ education was open for 4,711 hours Controller. They are appointed by the CEO sales offices with high chances of ethics after eligibility assessment by the Audit violation due to frequent encounters with Education on Ethics Management for Committee. The Committee assists the business partners. The Company has been Business Partners and Subsidiaries in 2016 Company in making the best ethical dehosting ethics management seminars cisions regarding ethics-related matters, for employees of business partners since such as the conflict of interests. If stake2013 to help understand the basic prin413 companies holders of employees with the highest ciples of ethics regulations, raising the 20 Self-assessment of quality of ethics management across the assessment result of suppliers, in particEthics Management in 2017 supply chain. Moreover, the self-assessular, is reflected when evaluating suppliment system of ethics management was er qualifications. In 2016, a health risk of introduced in 2015 to raise employees’ employees and suppliers while working Average score 99.1 points awareness of ethics. The system will be in high heat during the summer months updated on a regular basis according to rewas found through internal human right vision and amendment regarding relevant inspection process. The Company newly regulations. introduced “Thermal Injury Prevention Measures” and also conducted campaigns Human Rights Protection in cooperation with the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency. No other huAs a member of the UN Global Compact, man rights infringement was found. S-OIL is committed to protecting emCompany-wide Ethics Management training ployees, suppliers, local residents, and At S-OIL, it is banned to donate political stakeholders in accordance with its indefunds or mobilize the Company’s organipendent set of policies established after zations, employees, or properties for pothe principles of the UN Global Compact litical purposes according to the code of on human rights and labor. The Company ethics. S-OIL has neither donated to nor shares human rights policy with business purchased from a non-profit foundation partners and stakeholders according to for political purposes. S-OIL will execute internal process while identifying potenits budget exclusively for social purpostial danger groups and issues by conductes, ensuring that additional budget is not ing assessment on a regular basis. Risk spent in exerting political power. factors identified in the assessment are addressed, followed by monitoring to prevent the recurrence of similar cases. The Spending in Business Human Rights Policies Associations in 2016 S-OIL shall respect basic human rights as prescribed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child, KRW 1,558 million the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and other international human rights policies as below: 1. (Employees) S-OIL shall observe regulations on working hours and wage prescribed in labor laws, guarantee the freedom of assembly, and ban unfair discrimination, child labor, and forced labor. 2. (Suppliers) S-OIL shall make the best efforts to work with suppliers which observe labor and human rights laws and standards of international organizations or groups, protect human rights by assessing their implementation of human rights policy in accordance with the pledge of code of ethics for bidders, and encourage business partners to adopt the same human rights policy as the Company. 3. (Affiliated companies and investors) S-OIL shall invest in businesses which observe labor and human rights laws and standards of international organizations or groups and encourage its affiliated companies and investors to adopt the same human rights policy as the Company. 4. (Local community) S-OIL shall contribute to economic, environmental, and social development of the local community where its operations are based, respect residents and culture of the local Ethics Management Help Desk community, and analyze and minimize factors which many have a negative impact on human rights. Phone : 82-2-3772-5231 Fax : 82-2-3772-5239 5. (Human rights protection activities) S-OIL shall systemically monitor potential human rights risk e-mail : ethics@s-oil.com groups and issues, promptly take measures upon identifying risk factors, and strive to prevent the Homepage : ethics.s-oil.com recurrence of similar cases. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 21 Business Fundamental Risk S-OIL operates a highly-advanced risk management system to overcome potenManagement tial risks, generate economic, social, and environmental values, and growth together with investors and stakeholders. What is more, the Company conducts a thorough internal audit to address improper practices and inefficient cost structure, thus laying the foundation for sustainable growth. Systematic Company-wide the Company’s strategic risk management Risk Management Activities policies. As factors affecting business management become Given that the causes and nature of risks Company-wide Response increasingly diverse and complicated, uncertainties affecting business management are evolvSystem to Key Risks are mounting in the ing, a customized response process should S-OIL operates the ERM to monitor changmanagement environment. be established by understanding different es in the management environment, thus It is for this reason that systematic risk management risk factors. Operating the Enterprise Risk ensuring that risks do not translate into is crucial in order for Management (ERM), an integrated compareal dangers which stand in the way of businesses to overcome countless potential risks that ny-wide risk management system, S-OIL achieving management goals. The ERM threaten their survival, and responds to all kinds of risks that may arise makes it possible for the Company to thus, achieve sustainable from management activities. Also, having check key risks through identification, growth. developed risk-specific response proassessment, selection of indicators, regrams, S-OIL ensures sustainable managesponse, and monitoring processes, and to ment under any risk situation. Employees take countermeasures, enabling systemat S-OIL conduct optimized risk response atic control of emerging risks as well. activities through risk management systems including ERM System, Emergency Optimized Risk Response Control Program (ECP), Early Warning SysSystem of the ECP tem (EWS), and Internal Accounting ManIn case a major crisis breaks out, S-OIL runs agement System (IAMS). the ECP aimed at taking a company-wide response to minimize loss of people and Risk Management Governance property. Furthermore, by conducting the S-OIL runs integrated risk management company-wide Emergency Drill on a reggovernance where all employees from ular basis, S-OIL examines and improves frontline departments to the Board of Dirisk response capability. S-OIL updates rectors perform their duties in a systemthe organizational and operational regulaatic manner. The ERM Committee, speartions on the ECP to ensure efficient collabheaded by top management including oration between an on-site response orgathe CEO, ensures that risk management nization and a company-wide supporting activities are up to the Company’s straorganization. tegic management principles. The ERM Committee receives reports on the comPrompt Risks Response pany-wide risk management status on a through the EWS regular basis while supervising the risk S-OIL’s EWS ensures prompt response to a management process so that the Compavariety of risks related to work by monitorny can be timely alerted to an emergency ing risk-generating factors. Departments and take prompt countermeasures. Imshare abnormal data regarding their work portant matters involving risk managevia the EWS, taking early actions to prement are reported to the Board of Direcvent the aggravation of risks. tors when necessary and then reflected in 22 IAMS for Effective Internal Control ing the timely recovery of spare parts afS-OIL operates the IAMS and conducts the ter construction and the optimization of evaluation of internal control on a yearreplacement of gasoline quality standard, ly basis to let employees independently the Company will save more than KRW 700 evaluate work process for the purpose of million in cost per year. Auditors carry out securing the reliability of financial inforan intensive audit and regular monitoring mation and the appropriateness of work of the ongoing RUC/ODC Project, contribexecution and complying with laws and uting to the success of the project. In 2016, regulations. S-OIL upgraded the internal the Committee launched an intensive aucontrol system to evaluate internal control dit into procurement for the project, imin a more effective manner in 2016. S-OIL proving contract cost management and reviewed the control items by key process contract change process. By conducting and removed the ones whose effectiveregular monitoring activities across the ness of evaluation decreased while develproject, the Committee prevents risks inoping new evaluation items, thus raising volving safety, investment cost, project the efficiency of internal control. schedule, and compliance. The Company helps auditors improve competency by Operation of an supporting education and certificate exEfficient Internal Audit System amination while introducing professional software Audit Command Language (ACL) S-OIL has an independent audit organizafor in-depth data analysis. S-OIL strives tion under the control of the Audit Comto raise corporate value through the obmittee to guarantee the independence and jective and independent operation of the expertise of internal audit. The Company Audit Committee and audit organization, enhances transparency and corporate the establishment of an effective audit value by conducting a comprehensive insystem equivalent to that of leading global ternal audit of accounting and business in corporations, and the execution of audit general. Auditors with rich experience and centered around process improvement. in-depth understanding of business operations concentrate their auditing capabilities on sustaining a sound internal control system and addressing inefficiency in work process and cost structure. In 2016, the Committee issued an improvement recommendation on the management of supplies and nonconforming products at the Onsan Refinery. Also, by recommendS-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 23 Sustainable & Customers Profitable Growth p. 26 Sustainable Employees & p. 37 Owners & Other Stakeholders Profitable p. 47 Growth Sustainability management at S-OIL starts from understanding the expectations of C.E.O. (Customers, Employees, Owners & other stakeholders). Going forward, the Company will create economic, environmental, and social values reflecting the expectations of C.E.O. and contribute to the development of society and the nation. 24 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 25 Customers Sustainable & Profitable Growth At S-OIL, customer satisfaction comes before everything. We continue to build our brand value through reasonable price and utmost product quality, and focus on satisfying customer needs to secure their trust which will constitute the foundation for our sustainable growth. We also strive to sharpen our overseas marketing capabilities by enhancing strategic partnerships with key customers abroad and, at the same time, exploring new markets. Proportion of Export 56.6 % Market Share for Retail Light Oil Products 21.8 % Key Issues Report Subject Aspect (Reporting scope) Major Stakeholders ˙Realization C01 Realization Customer Relationship ˙Customers of customer satisfaction of customer satisfaction (Inside and Outside of S-OIL) ˙Product C02 Product quality Customer Health & Safety ˙Customers quality assurance in the assurance (Inside of S-OIL) ˙Government distribution stage ˙Reinforcement of R&D ˙Promotion of fair market ing activities ˙Enhancement of mar C03 Enhancement of Brand Management ˙Customers keting activities marketing activities (Inside of S-OIL) ˙Enhancement of C04 Protection of Customer Relationship ˙Customers customers’ personal customers’ personal information / (Inside and Outside of S-OIL) ˙Government information Fair competition in the market protection ˙Prevention of activities that impede fair competition 26 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders C01 Realization of Customer Satisfaction Why is This Important? As customer needs diversify, customer-orientconsumer demands for services and products, ed management is critical to the survival of in particular, it is imperative for companies to businesses today. Amid intensifying compemaximize consumer benefits. tition in the business environment and rising Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Product prices to maximize ㆍDecision of rational product prices ㆍDecision of rational product prices ㆍDecision of rational product prices customer usability ㆍMarket share for retail light oil ㆍMarket share for retail light oil ㆍIncrease of market share for retail products: over 20.8% products: 21.8% light oil products ㆍMarket share for service stations: ㆍMarket share for service stations: ㆍExpansion of service station network over 17.6% 17.8% Swift and accurate treatment ㆍTreatment of VOCs within a desㆍTime spent on treating VOCs ㆍTreatment of VOCs within a of customer complaints ignated period (2 business days (0.7 business day for inquiries / designated period for inquiries / 5 business days for 2.4 business days for complaints) complaints) Reinforcement of the ㆍRatio of service stations with low ㆍRatio of service stations with low ㆍRatio of service stations with low competitiveness of service service quality by customer evaluaservice quality by customer evaluaservice quality by customer evaluastations and LPG filling tion: under 25% tion: 25% tion: under 15% stations ㆍRatio of service stations with high ㆍRatio of service stations with high ㆍRatio of service stations with high hygiene by customer evaluation: hygiene by customer evaluation: hygiene by customer evaluation: over 50% 52% over 60% Our Response S-OIL concentrates its capabilities on enhancconsistent and comprehensive marketing acing consumer satisfaction with products of tivities while seeking shared growth with gas top quality and reasonable prices. S-OIL destations and LGP filling stations based on longlivers practical benefits to consumers through term relations. Sales performances in 2016 (Unit: KRW in millions) ■ Domestic sales ■ Exports ■ Total Fuel Business Lube Business Petrochemical Business Total 16,321,843 12,464,223 9,237,567 (56.6%) 7,084,276 6,532,451 (43.4%) (52.4%) 5,931,772 2,543,957 (47.6%) 1,655,903 (65.1%) 1,313,663 1,049,213 888,054 264,450 (79.9%) (34.9%) (20.1%) 2016 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 27 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Reasonable Product Pricing Swift and Accurate Treatment of Customer Complaints S-OIL strives to resolve consumers’ suspicions and realize consumer benefits by sticking to S-OIL established an integrated VOC operreasonable and competitive pricing policy. ation system in 2012 to handle all customer Operating an independent product pricing feedback received via customer centers and system to take into consideration factors that websites. The VOC handling period is set by affect domestic oil product prices such as flucVOC type and reflected in KPI for swift treattuations in international oil prices, F/X and ment. Also, the result of the satisfaction survey domestic market conditions, S-OIL is leading on VOC handling is reflected in the VOC operathe domestic pricing with fair and reasonable tion procedure for a continued improvement policy. Although consumers rarely feel the inof the system. The handling status is notified stant impact of lower crude oil price first hand to customers via SMS and e-mails. We also run due to high taxes and the lagging structure, the “Compensation for Excellent VOC Activithe Price Operation Committee at S-OIL sets ties,” an incentive system since 2015 to boost standard prices of gasoline, diesel, and kerothe morale of employees who handle VOCs. sene in the domestic market. S-OIL promises The big data collected in the integrated VOC to maintain this fair product pricing policy to operation system are utilized to identify patdeliver products to consumers at reasonable terns in customer complaints. The results are and competitive prices, thus contributing to shared in the customer complaints analysis stabilizing domestic oil prices and maximizing report and training materials for service staconsumer benefits. tions and LPG filling stations. In addition, we select particular service stations and LPG fillExpansion of Domestic ing stations each month to support their cusMarket Share and Enhancement tomer complaints response program called of Consumer Convenience “See You Again Call” and share tips on how to stave off customer complaints categorized Market share for retail light As the slowing demand for petrochemical by complaint type. In 2016, the “Hidden VOC” oil products products, increasing market uncertainties, program was launched to find out customers’ (Unit: places) and intensifying competition among suppliers negative experiences they did not file with the 20.7% 21.1% 21.8% aggravate sales conditions, S-OIL is striving Company in a direct manner by visiting serto boost its domestic market share on many vices stations, LPG filling stations, and busi2,022 2,070 2,124 fronts. For example, while securing a reliable ness partners, which contributes to preemp(16.4%) (17.2%) (17.8%) source of demand by expanding its sales nettively responding to customer complaints. 2014 2015 2016 work with LPG filling stations, service stations, No. of S-OIL service stations and direct sales offices, the Company carries Support for Competitiveness Enhancement for Service Market share for retail light oil products out differentiated programs to enhance competitiveness by solidifying ties with existing Stations and LPG Filling Stations Time spent on treating VOCs trading partners. Despite the decreasing num(Unit: business days) ber of gas stations across the nation, S-OIL is S-OIL is committed to helping service stations 3.7 2.9 the only refinery in Korea to see the number of and LPG filling stations to enhance compet2.4 gas stations increase, thus minimizing inconitiveness and improve management by con0.8 0.7 0.7 venience for customers. As a result, S-OIL capducting a variety of supporting programs as tured a 21.8% share of the domestic market part of efforts to promote win-win partner2014 2015 2016 for retail light oil products in 2016, record high ships. Inquiry (Designated period: 2 business days) since its establishment. S-OIL promises to exComplaint (Designated period: 5 business days) pand its sales network to enhance consumer GOODOIL Etiquette & Clean Up Campaign convenience and boost its domestic market According to a survey on consumer awareness share by exploring new business opportuniof service stations and LPG filling stations, conties. sumers found service attitude and restroom hygiene most unsatisfactory. It is based on 28 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders this result that S-OIL launched the “GOODOIL price competition, S-OIL has developed nonEtiquette and Clean Up Campaign” in 2016 oil business which affiliated gas stations and aimed at boosting customers’ revisit rate. All LPG filling stations can adopt to diversify their employees of the Company have visited affilirevenue portfolio and secure their competated gas stations and LPG filling stations 1,500 itive edge. S-OIL has introduced non-store times per year to clean up restrooms and proand small-budget non-oil business such as vide core services to customers as part of the car supplies sales, brokerage business, and “Smile Day” activities. S-OIL also launched the bottled water sales to its affiliated gas stations S-OIL Champions Club “GOODOIL Etiquette with U” campaign where and LPG filling stations since 2014. Beginning service staff welcomed customers with smile. in 2015, the Company is providing affiliated The Company produced three video clips for gas and LPG stations with quality PB products public goods to encourage customers’ particsuch as urea solution and ethanol washer fluid ipation and uploaded the clips on YouTube. 20 at competitive prices. gas and LPG stations participated in the free gas filling event for customers who greeted Awarding System for Gas sales staff with smile. Station and LPG Filling Station Owners S-OIL selects owners of gas stations and YES Team Operation of the Field Management LPG filling stations who achieved remarkSystem able performance in terms of service, facility In order to improve service quality at gas stamanagement, sales volume, and profitability, tions and LPG filling stations to meet increasand awards the “S-OIL Champions Club” to ingly rising customer expectations, S-OIL them every year. The “S-OIL Champions Club” launched “YES Team” for field education, “Enboosts competition in good faith and lets secouragement Team” to teach employees on lected gas and LPG stations share good service HR management, and “Monitoring Team” to cases, contributing to improving their maninspect service status at gas stations and LPG agement capabilities. GOODOIL Etiquette and Clean Up Campaign filling stations. In 2017, S-OIL plans to enhance education on systematic response to customSupport for Promotional Events er complaints to minimize customer inconveS-OIL supports the purchase of bottled water, nience. wet tissue, and other promotional goods for affiliated gas stations and LPG filling stations Academy for Management according to the yearly promotion plan. The Capability Enhancement Company implements differentiated promoS-OIL provides a wide range of supporting protions for different regions for competitiveness grams such as onand off-line education, conenhancement. sulting by in-house consultants, and the GOODOIL Family Magazine to help affiliated service Enhancement of Customer Relationship stations and LPG filling stations enhance manS-OIL operates a No. 1 membership system in agement capabilities. “Education for gas stathe oil refining industry. S-OIL is the only refintion owners” and “on-site education” are ofery in Korea that entered into partnership with fered by District Business HQs and sales offices all five credit card companies and launched respectively. The bi-monthly GOODOIL Family the welfare credit card for freight car drivers. Magazine contains information on manageThe Company also carries out customized proment, relevant law and regulations, policies, motions through the Customer Relationship and the Company’s major marketing activities Management System for its Bonus Card suband support programs. scribers while offering a wide range of price discount in partnership with most domestic Revenue Diversification through Develcredit card companies. S-OIL will continue to oping and Supplying Non-Oil Business conduct diversified marketing campaigns in With the profitability of gas stations and LPG collaboration with credit card companies and filling stations compromised by intensifying provide customers with practical benefits. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 29 Sustainable & Profitable Growth C02 Product Quality Assurance Why is This Important? With environmental regulations spreading tainable growth for a business to protect conacross the world and consumers increasingly sumer interests and minimize impact on the conscious about quality products, it has risen environment and the safety of consumers by as the key competitive edge in securing susdelivering eco-friendly products. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Operation of the quality ㆍMaintenance of the ISO 9001 ㆍMaintenance of the ISO 9001 ㆍRenewal of the ISO 9001 certificamanagement system certification certification tion (Upgrade of standards) Enhancement of R&D capabilities ㆍDevelopment of new products ㆍDevelopment of one engine oil ㆍDevelopment of two engine oils and three industrial oils and three industrial oils ㆍIntroduction of the latest analysis ㆍReplacement of 11 analysis ㆍIntroduction of the latest analysis equipment and technology devices equipment and technology ㆍReinforcement of joint researches ㆍCompletion of two joint researches ㆍThree joint researches with with external institutions and one on-going joint project external institutions Production of high-quality ㆍIntroduction of new processes and ㆍIntroduction of diesel dewaxing ㆍIntroduction of new processes and eco-friendly products process improvement process and improvement of lube process improvement process ㆍZero sub-quality products ㆍZero sub-quality products ㆍZero sub-quality products Improvement of product ㆍE xpansion of quality inspection ㆍQuality inspection on 14,461 ㆍE xpansion of quality inspection quality competitiveness on service stations and LPG filling service stations and LPG filling on service stations and LPG filling stations stations stations ㆍLowest detection rate of abnormal ㆍDetection rate of abnormal ㆍLowest detection rate of abnormal products products: 1.5% (Average of products domestic refineries : 1.8%) ㆍE xpansion of the Trustworthy ㆍ1,552 Trustworthy Service ㆍE xpansion of the Trustworthy Service Station Stations (73%) Service Station Our Response S-OIL operates the quality management sysR&D projects such as high value-added prodtem in observance with ISO 9001, producing uct technology based on by-products from quality products which meet customers’ expetrochemical products, benzene removal pectations. With the system, S-OIL provides technology, BTX conversion technology, new consumers with products of top quality while desulfurization technology, CO2 utilization minimizing environmental and safety impact technology, high-efficiency eco-friendly fuel by developing eco-friendly goods. oil development, and more. Enhancement of R&D Capabilities Development of New Products S-OIL holds domestic patents on “long life gasS-OIL continues to invest in R&D activities oline engine oil” and “long life diesel engine oil aimed at improving product quality and adof improved fuel efficiency” that were develvancing production facilities to build on the oped jointly with the Hyundai-Kia Automotive technology the Company has already develGroup Namyang R&D Center. S-OIL continues oped. The Company also works with prestito engage in joint R&D projects, developing engious colleges and research institutes in many gine oil as well as auto transmission engine oil. 30 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders The Company also develops hydraulic oil and Production of other types of industrial oils to meet varying High-quality Eco-friendly Products consumer needs. S-OIL has won the highest grade for its gasoTechnology Support through Pilot Plants line and diesel in the environmental quality Environmental Quality Evaluation Having succeeded in operating a high pressure evaluation. The Company’s kerosene also obon Automotive Fuels in 2016 pilot plant, which produces clean lube base oil, tained the “Eco-Labeling” certification in 1994 Classification 1H 2H and another BCC pilot plant, S-OIL possesses for the first time among Korean refiners in recGasoline ★★★★★ ★★★★★ the most advanced research facilities and exognition of its superior eco-friendliness, and perience in the refining process. Our sophishas maintained the certification ever since Diesel ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ticated facilities contribute to improving proand won the Minister Prize of Environment in *Environmental Quality Rating System for duction process and catalyst assessment. As a 2014. Vehicle Fuel: The Ministry of Environment has been evaluating ratings of vehicle fuels since result, the Company has raised profitability as the second half of 2006 by taking gasoline and well as minimized impact on the environment Introduction of New Processes diesel samples from terminals and service and consumer safety by manufacturing the The Company is proactive in introducing new stations of each refinery which are located in the metropolitan area and commissioning the entire products as light oil or ultra-low sulfur processes as well as revamping and upgradKorea Institute of Petroleum Management for products. ing them to develop and supply high-effitest (the highest rating: ★★★★★) ciency eco-friendly products. For example, Introduction of the Latest the diesel dewaxing process was introduced Analysis Equipment and Technology to innovatively improve the stability of diesel S-OIL has introduced the latest analysis equipperformance even at low temperature in winment and technology to ensure stable quality ter. Moreover, we upgraded our lube base oil management and customer trust. The reliabilproduction process, which dramatically reity of analysis is secured by regularly checking duced the emission of a hazardous chemical the accuracy of equipment through authorized substance PAH (Poly Aromatic Hydrocarbon) institutions as well as in-house verification and allowed us to supply more eco-friendly programs. We also conduct training programs and safer lube base oil to the market. The into help improve our analysis ability, thereby troduction of alkylation process and RFCC securing industry-leading quality improveprocess is now promoted to ensure better ment capabilities and increasing production quality of gasoline. efficiency. Moreover, the Company participates in the comparison test on the degree of Prevention of Market precision between laboratories at home and Distribution of Sub-quality Products abroad hosted by professional agencies such Our real-time quality monitoring system deas ASTM and K-Petro every year, which contects in advance any factor that can have negtributes to securing analysis reliability, verifyative effects on product quality throughout ing analysis methods, and further improving the entire production process from purchase the accuracy of analysis technologies. of raw materials to market distribution, which ensures the supply of only the products satisfying quality standards to our customers. Trustworthy Service Station S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 31 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Enhancement of Quality Tracking IT System” which integrates product Management in the Market distribution and quality information encomDistribution Process passing the Onsan Refinery, service stations, and customers to trace back distribution Trustworthy Service Stations S-OIL always pays full attention to systematroutes. In 2017, we plan to launch the “Service (Unit: stations) ic product quality management in the entire Station & LPG Filling Station Quality Grade 2,124 market distribution process, as well as in the System” to provide customers with the best 2,022 2,070 production process, with the aim of preventquality products. 1,552 1,314 1,257 (73%) ing pollution or quality degradation of prod(65%) (61%) ucts at service stations and LPG filling station Trustworthy Service Station and ensuring customers’ rights to purchase To build an environment where customers can 2014 2015 2016 products with specified quality and quantity. easily purchase high-quality products, S-OIL S-OIL service stations Trustworthy Service Stations As a result, our diesel was selected as the best operates the “Trustworthy Service Station” customer value product by winning top marks program that guarantees product offering acin the diesel category of “2016 THE PROUD cording to quality and quantity specifications. CONSUMER SURVEY” hosted by KMAC (Korea At least six quality inspections and one quanManagement Association Consulting). tity specification inspection a year are prerequisite to maintaining the qualification as the Strict Inspection on Product Quality of Trustworthy Service Station. The Company Service Stations and LPG Filling Stations intends to make over 90% of affiliated service Inspection on Product Quality and Quality inspection on all affiliated service stastations join this program by 2018 in order to Facilities of Service Stations & LPG tions and LPG filling stations is conducted at heighten the level of trust customers will place Filling Stations on the Company’s products. least six times a year, which is guided by the In(Unit: stations) spection Team dedicated to quality inspection 12,502 14,461 and the Management Team responsible for 10,666 prevention activities. Diverse possible means are tried to ensure efficient quality inspection 1,161 1,612 2,088 such as injecting specific markers, running onsite handy analyzers and the abnormal symp2014 2015 2016 tom monitoring system, and checking dealer Inspection on quality Inspection on facilities information. Service stations and LPG filling stations found to sell fake oil face the strictest possible penalties including de-branding. In addition, S-OIL runs the “Product Quality Strict Inspection on Product Quality of Service Stations and LPG Filling Stations 32 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders C03 Enhancement of Marketing Activities Why is This Important? Customer-centered management has become meet customers’ expectations and make the an essential strategy for corporate survival best efforts for enhancing their brand value due to diversified customer needs. Therefore, and corporate image for winning fierce comcompanies are today required to proactively petition. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Improvement of ㆍImprovement of brand value through ㆍProduction of a differentiated fantasy ㆍImprovement of brand value through brand competitiveness differentiated advertising campaigns animated film (TOM 60.3%) differentiated advertising campaigns ㆍImplementation of various marketing ㆍLaunch of diverse GOODOIL Family proㆍEnhancement of awareness of and activities utilizing the GOODOIL character grams such as animated films and popaffinity for the GOODOIL Family up stores ㆍE xecution of distinctive sports and culㆍBrand exposure and corporate image ㆍImprovement of corporate image and ture events improvement by sponsoring golf tournacustomer loyalty by sponsoring diverse ments and culture events sports and culture events ㆍEnhancement of marketing activities for ㆍAttraction of participation from customㆍEnhancement of marketing activities service stations through effective promoers by adding valuable gifts for service stations through systematic tion promotion Obtainment of ㆍAdvertising on corporate image that ㆍCreation of corporate image that fulfills ㆍAdvertising on corporate image that positive symphonizes and communicates with social responsibility symphonizes and communicates with corporate image customers customers Our Response Brand Marketing Activities for Customers Brand Advertising Campaign to Provide Comfort and Inspire Courage In 2016, S-OIL launched a TV ad campaign with the title “Good Oil Drives Us to Good Places.” The ad containing beautiful images and a song represents the heart of modern people who want to go off toward their own paradise Top of Mind Awareness in beyond the reality. The ad film racked up 11 TV Advertising in 2016 million views on YouTube and Facebook. The 60.3% Company also published a story-telling coloring book to offer customers special experiences. These efforts contributed to promoting a positive image of S-OIL, which resulted in achieving a 60.3% TOM (Top of Mind) awareness and winning the best ad award at the “2016 Korea Communication Award.” Going 6.1% TV Ad campaign forward, the Company will promote a series of 2016 brand ad campaigns using the GOODOIL Family characters to communicate with customers ■ Average of domestic competitors ■ S-OIL more pleasantly and creatively. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 33 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Differentiated Character Marketing Effective Promotional Activities S-OIL has proactively utilized the GOODOIL S-OIL engages in a variety of promotional accharacter symbolizing good oil for diverse tivities to provide more benefits to customers marketing activities as well as advertising who visit its affiliated service stations and LPG campaigns since 2012 in order to more closefilling stations and increase their satisfaction. ly relate to customers and to effectively comAs part of this, in 2016, we held the “GOOmunicate with customers. In 2016, the ComDOIL Giveaway Event” at service stations and pany produced seven 3D animated films of LPG filling stations all over the country twice, GOODOIL Giveaway Event GOODOIL Family characters to deliver a sense through which more than 2.2 million customof affinity and opened a pop-up store at its ers received diverse free gifts such as GOOhead office where visitors could directly take DOIL characters and daily supplies. We also a look at and purchase the characters. Other opened a mobile point shopping mall to help activities included exhibiting large GOODOIL our Bonus Card members easily use their boFamily character structures in the Internationnus points, and added to the shopping mall al Horticulture Goyang Korea and installing a daily supplies, such as mineral water and wet GOODOIL Christmas tree in Cheonggyecheon, tissue, which were well-liked by customers. Seoul, thereby offering customers more The Company continues to implement more KLPGA S-OIL Champions Invitational chances to enjoy with the GOODOIL characeffective promotional activities to increase ters. Particularly, the GOODOIL emoticons customer satisfaction. won popularity by being downloaded more than 250 thousand times and used over 11 milCreation of an Image as a lion times through the Kakao Talk. S-OIL plans Friendly Company That Fulfills to create more opportunities for better comSocial Responsibility municating with customers by capitalizing on We strive to build a corporate image that imthe GOODOIL characters. plies friendliness, swiftly communicates with consumers, and fulfills social responsibility Expansion of Sports and through diverse advertisements. The “Useful Cultural Marketing Activities Knowledge” series on the front page of major Our support for diverse sports and cultural dailies, launched in 2016, was well received by events contributes to making our brand more consumers with its valuable information. In dynamic and prestigious. S-OIL has been host2017, S-OIL plans to form a friendlier corporate ing the “KLPGA S-OIL Champions Invitational” image by carrying out the “A Safe Day” and since 2007 and sponsoring the “Pro-Am Golf “The Place We Want to Go” campaigns featurChampionship” to deliver exclusive values to ing the GOODOIL characters. Meanwhile, the customers. S-OIL has also organized cultural Company has showcased creative printed adevents such as “culture date” and “S-OIL cinevertisements featuring “For Heroes” and “For ma date.” Moreover, we sponsored Verdi’s “La Environment” activities. In 2016, we installed Traviata” in Korea in 2016 to give customers a large billboard on the wall of our Head Office a good chance to enjoy a high-quality culturto deliver a message of hope to the local comal performance, and have started distinctive munities. sports marketing activities in 2017 including outdoor advertising and promotions at Sajik Baseball Park in Busan, home to the Lotte Giants professional baseball team. The Company intends to expand sports and cultural marketing activities to build a friendlier brand image. Printed advertisements 34 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders C04 Protection of Customers’ Personal Information / Fair Competition in the Market Why is This Important? Recently increasing personal information consumers and the government are highly inleakage causes not only psychological and terested in fair trade in the oil refining business physical damages to customers but also ecoas the domestic oil market is monopolized by nomic losses such as reliability deterioration a few companies and oil products have a great and financial compensation. In addition, both influence in consumer prices. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Enhancement of ㆍMaintenance of the Personal InforㆍMaintenance of the PIMS ㆍMaintenance of the PIMS customers’ personal mation Management System (PIMS) certification certification information protection certification ㆍMaintenance of the Information ㆍMaintenance of the ISMS ㆍMaintenance of the ISMS Security Management System (ISMS) certification certification certification Promotion of fair ㆍE stablishment of a fair trade culture ㆍImplementation of training on fair ㆍE stablishment of a fair trade marketing activities trade once culture ㆍRegular and irregular voluntary inspecㆍRegular and irregular voluntary inspecㆍRegular and irregular voluntary tions on fair trade tions on fair trade inspections on fair trade ㆍUse of written contracts based on fair ㆍReflection of the Fair Franchise TransㆍUse of written contracts based on fair trade action Act trade and consistent check Our Response S-OIL carries out systematic activities to proresponsible for monitoring how personal infortect personal information provided by stakemation is accessed, stored, and altered. And holders including customers in accordance work process was revamped to minimize the with a strict set of policies. In recognition of its handling of personal information. privacy protection efforts, S-OIL became the first Korean oil company to obtain the certifiEncryption of Personal Information cation on Personal Information Management and Access Control System (PIMS) and Information Security ManAt S-OIL, customer information is encrypted agement System (ISMS) from the government and stored under rigorous control. Any unauin 2015. thorized access is denied by the personal information protection system and access history PIMS-based Systematic is regularly monitored by security workforce. Personal Information Protection Furthermore, the Server Based Computing (SBC) system allows access only when the user Minimum Retention of Customers’ is disconnected from the Internet. IT system Personal Information managers can have access to our IT system To comply with the Act on the Protection of only through the Virtual Desktop InfrastrucPersonal Information and minimize personal ture (VDI) that separates Internet and business information leakage, S-OIL deleted sensitive networks. Access to the IT system is available personal information such as resident regisafter entering password and One Time Passtration number from the Company’s customer word (OTP). DB. In addition, the IT Security Team is largely S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 35 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Education on Personal Fair Competition in the Market Information Protection S-OIL’s employees as well as those from conEducation on Fair Trade tractors who access the Company’s customer Boosted by the CEO’s strong commitment to DB are required to participate in regular edureinforcing compliance management, especation programs on privacy protection at least cially in relation to fair trade laws, S-OIL pubtwice a year. The Information Protection and lished a compliance manual and must-follow Management Committee presided over by the guidelines “Dos & Don’ts” that employees Chief Security Officer (CSO) convenes more need to adhere to when conducting sales acthan twice a year to raise awareness of securitivities. S-OIL also hosts education on fair ty issues by reviewing privacy protection poltrade every year to raise employees’ awareicies and implementation plans, monitoring ness of compliance with relevant laws. As a personal information protection status, and result of these efforts, S-OIL has recorded no creating relevant guidelines in everyday life. violation of fair trade laws since 2012, and the Company’s commitment to fair trade and proActivities to Protect Crucial tection of consumer interests is embedded in Corporate Information its corporate culture. Violations of the Fair Trade Law in 2016 Our information protection activities are conAutonomous Inspection on Fair ducted systematically in all of managerial, Trade through the Compliance System technical, and physical areas based on the S-OIL conducts autonomous inspection on ISMS. The latest security technologies are 0 case adopted for the corporate security system to violations of fair trade in business operations regularly and irregularly by capitalizing on its efficiently respond to rapidly-growing hacking compliance system. In addition, the Compatechnologies. We also collaborate with prony not only provides employees with enactfessional information security firms to set up ment and amendment of fair trade laws and an information leakage response system, unregulations in real time, but also implements derstand up-to-date information protection education and monitoring about detailed law trends, and take technical advice. Moreover, to articles in order to encourage employees to effectively control advanced persistent threats thoroughly comply with fair trade. (APT), the Company introduced security equipment dedicated to blocking APT attacks, Use of Written Contracts as well as virus vaccine software, to offer safer Based on Fair Trade IT services to customers and employees. The We use standardized written contracts conend-point security solution detects abnormal taining recommendations by the Fair Trade situations of user PCs in advance, ensuring Commission when initiating transactions with higher response ability to unsung malignant business partners. Moreover, in accordance codes. The Mobile Device Management (MDM), with the “Fair Franchise Transaction Act” enMobile Application Management (MAM), and forced in December 2016, the Company has Mobile Content Management (MCM) solutions reflected mandatory trade conditions in the ensure safer IT services through mobile devicwritten contracts. es. The Company’s IT systems are operated at the data center equipped with the best security solutions, thereby being safely protected from intrusions. Yongin Data Center 36 Customers Employees Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders Our reasonable HR system ensures the establishment No. of new employees of a performance-oriented corporate culture. The fair recruitment and evaluation process allow us to attract and 293 persons train talented employees, and diverse training programs DNV safety culture contribute to cultivating core talents who will spearhead evaluation the Company. Our industry-leading compensation system and welfare package lead to a better work-life balance for 7.9 points employees. Key Issues Report Subject Aspect (Reporting scope) Major Stakeholders ˙HR management E01 HR management / Employment, ˙Employees ˙Fair evaluation and fair evaluation & Diversity & Equal Opportunity, compensation compensation Non-Discrimination (Inside of S-OIL) ˙Talent cultivation E02 Talent cultivation Training & Education ˙Employees (Inside of S-OIL) ˙Healthy corporate E03 Healthy corporate Benefit, ˙Employees culture culture / establishment of Economic Performance, ˙Establishment of harmonized laborLabor/Management Relations harmonized labormanagement relations (Inside of S-OIL) management relations ˙Industrial safety E04 Industrial safety & Safety Management ˙Employees ˙Local and health health management (Inside and Outside of S-OIL) ˙Business communities management partners ˙Government S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 37 Sustainable & Profitable Growth E01 HR Management / Fair Evaluation & Compensation Why is This Important? A performance-oriented corporate culture tent talents beyond regionalism and school is essential for sustainable growth. It can be relations and compensating for their perforfounded when hiring and cultivating compemances in a fair and reasonable manner. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Enhancement of ㆍSecuring talented employees ㆍRecruitment of 293 persons ㆍSecuring talented employees HR management through fair recruitment through fair recruitment procedure procedure Reinforcement of ㆍEnhancement of the perforㆍImprovement of evaluation ㆍEnhancement of the perforperformance-based mance-based evaluation system systems mance-based evaluation system corporate culture through ㆍEnhancement of the perforㆍEnhancement of the perforㆍEnhancement of the perforreasonable and fair mance-based compensation mance-based compensation mance-based compensation HR management systems system system system Our Response Securing Talented background, region, age, or disability. We are Employees through also proactive in hiring socially marginalized Fair Recruitment Procedure groups such as disabled people and non-regular workers. The channels to hire competitive S-OIL pursues the diversity of its employtalents are extended to campus recruiting, inees and strives to create a corporate culture ternship, and scholarship support programs. where every employee unleashes their full We do not require potentially discriminatory potential and contributes to corporate growth items of applicants and conduct a blind inthrough innovation. Our recruitment proceterview system where personal information dure ensures that no applicant is discriminatincluding academic background is not provided against on grounds of gender, academic ed to interviewers, which ensures fair evaluNew Employment in 2016 293 persons New employees’ greeting at the opening ceremony 38 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders Invitation of new employees’ parents ation based only on competence and qualificompetency. Performance evaluation was cations instead of applicants’ specifications. also upgraded to make sure that both organiOur reasonable and transparent recruitment zational and individual goals would be closely procedure has become a driving force for our interconnected. Every employee sets up indisustainable growth despite increasingly fierce vidual action plans in line with organizational competition. goals and their activities are managed by a phase-by-phase check process to ensure indiPerformance-based Evaluation and vidual performance improvement. And then, Compensation specific performances are evaluated on action plans, which increases fairness and reliability Improvement of the Evaluation System in the evaluation. Aimed at Enhancing Individual Competence and Organizational Performance Enhancement of the Performance-based S-OIL has advanced its evaluation system Compensation System to build a performance-oriented corporate In line with the performance-based organiculture. As for individual competence evaluazational culture, we have reduced seniorition, we improved the existing system where ty-based compensation while strengthening grades were given simply in accordance with performance-based compensation. Wage inevaluation results. Under the new system, crease in line with the service period for the every employee creates tailored competence same position was scaled down while that development plans based on their evaluation from promotion further expanded. In addition, results. And then, they carry out the plans we introduced a merit-based system for office and monitor and manage the processes and workers in accordance with annual evaluation results throughout the year. These activities results to boost their inspiration to raise percontribute greatly to developing individual formance at work. Employment Status in 2016 (Unit : persons) 2,858 (91.4%) Male 1,949 2,893 persons (62.3%) 1,665 (92.5%) (53.2%) 1,423 Female (45.5%) 624 235 (7.5%) persons (20.0%) 555 (17.7%) 270 (8.6%) 40 (1.3%) Under 30 30-50 50 years old Regular Non-regular Officers AdminProducyears old years old or above position position istrative tion staff staff S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 39 Sustainable & Profitable Growth E02 Talent Cultivation Why is This Important? The competitiveness gap among oil refiners in requires changes to the oil refining business. terms of production facilities has declined due Therefore, it is imperative for us to strengthen to the narrowing technological gap and intenemployee competence and increase operasifying investment competition. And the detional efficiency in order to gain a competitive velopment of renewable energy technologies edge and make inroads into new markets. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Offering of various education ㆍOperation of an effective ㆍImplementation of leadership ㆍOperation of an effective programs to improve education system enhancement programs, S-OIL education system employee competence Academy, engineer ECP, training of new operators ㆍCultivation of next-generation ㆍSetup of a framework to cultivate ㆍCultivation of next-generation leaders next-generation leaders leaders Our Response The Company’s competence development own needs for learning. This program allows model consists of basic competence for all ememployees to form study groups on any topic ployees, leadership competence for leaders, they are interested in to meet for a small group and job competence. And systematic educalecture, group learning, or reading discussion. tion is offered in accordance with employees’ The Communication Center offers employees role level (job grade). opportunities to cultivate their foreign language skill. The Company provides employees Operation of an Effective attending these programs with learning mateEducation System rials and expenses to promote their active interaction and competence development. Based on competence evaluation results, we provide employees with not only in-house colIntroduction of the Learning lective training but also various online educaManagement System (LMS) tion courses accessible via mobile devices so The LMS, launched in 2015, has been contribthat employees can develop their competencuting to increasing the efficiency of educationes anywhere, anytime. Commissioned trainal administration and effectively supporting ing is also offered to meet increasing needs employees’ competence enhancement. The for more specialized education. In 2016, new LMS analyzes the patterns of users who access courses such as understanding of our specific the system and customizes the main page for production process, basic finance, and basic individual users. It also features “My Classwork skill were launched to foster basic comroom” for the community learning while allowpetence for all employees. We also initiated ing users to search a wide variety of video clips the Learning Cell, an open learning platform and materials for self-driven study. E-learning for employees who want to share their knowlcourses from the LMS are available via both PC edge and experience while satisfying their and mobile devices, serving regular learning. 40 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders The introduction of the LMS has let employees ECP for Engineer Competence benefit from systematic individual compeEnhancement tence development programs while raising the S-OIL has operated the Engineer Cultivation operational efficiency of educational adminisProgram (ECP) since 2015 to support the systration for the Company. temic training of engineers. Under this program, engineers draw up the Customized Leadership Enhancement Programs Personal Training Program (CPTP) related to Leader groups such as officers and team leadindividual functions and career path based ers play a key role for building an active organion the job function training database Pool of zational culture and making decisions on critRefinery Training Courses (PoRT) and interical matters. To strengthen their capabilities, views with their supervisors. The training outS-OIL diagnosed their leadership styles in colcomes and records are systemically monitored laboration with professional consulting firms through the LMS. In addition to the ECP, the Inin 2016 and conducted one-on-one coaching tensive Overseas Training Program is operated programs guided by professionals based on so as to cultivate engineers with a global mindthe results with the purpose of presenting set and competency. leadership types required of them. Going forward, S-OIL plans to develop various effective Intensive Education for New Operators leadership programs to help leader groups culTo ensure a successful operation of our largtivate their competence and take the initiative est-ever project, S-OIL offers a six-week Amerfor changes and innovation. ican Petroleum Institute (API) course, basic job Communication Center training about process and facilities, and safeS-OIL Academy for Specialized ty training to new operators who have joined Job Training the Company since 2015. After this training, We have been running the S-OIL Academy for they are required to complete the 20-week Job specialized job training since 2011. The S-OIL Task Standard (JTS) course at each departAcademy consists of the S-OIL Academy for ment. During this period, intensive training inMarketing & Sales and the S-OIL Academy for cluding self-learning on basic jobs and monthOperations and is upgraded every year. Parly evaluation on training results are carried out ticularly, the S-OIL Academy for Marketing to help them learn diverse skills needed for & Sales was revamped in 2014 to better train their future jobs. One-on-one mentoring serInternal training program domestic sales professionals, thereby offering vice is also offered to faithfully manage their 48 modules and 12 courses including the case training process. Average Time Spent on of sales of domestic oil products today. As for Education per Employee in 2016 the S-OIL Academy for Operations aimed at Nurturing Next-generation Leaders ■ Office staff(Excluding team leaders) sharpening the job competence of engineers ■ Production staff and production staff, we developed an e-learnWith a clear awareness of the importance of ing course for fostering basic job competence cultivating future talents, S-OIL has estaband introduced the Blended Learning which lished a systematic HR development program. 55 hours combined onand off-line job courses. In order to establish a stable operational competence To nurture the next generation leaders, for example, we select talented employees with for Start-Up and Shut-Down for each process great potential and engage them in diverse and to develop emergency response capabilijob rotation both in and outside the Company. 21 hours ties, we offer the Operation Training Simulator (OTS) program. Also, an advanced program They also benefit from the Company’s support for their MBA studies in Korea or overseas, or has been running to support the building-up for the Master’s program in science and engiof competence for manager-level engineers or neering in IFP School in France. We also focus above. Leadership courses are offered to site on developing diverse female leader cultivastaff as well. tion programs. These advanced training programs will produce many core talents who can lead S-OIL to a sustainable future. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 41 Sustainable & Profitable Growth E03 Healthy Corporate Culture / Establishment of Harmonized Labor-Management Relations Why is This Important? Corporate productivity can be maximized gic ideas and pursue efficient work process enwhen employees who are the key assets to ables employees to enjoy a work-life balance. corporate sustainable growth are able to be Harmonized labor-management relationship immersed in their jobs. Moreover, the corpois a driving force of ensuring corporate sustainrate culture to encourage creative and strateable growth as well. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Activation of communication ㆍActivation of communication among ㆍActivation of communication among ㆍActivation of communication among among organizations organizations organizations organizations Operation of an industry-leading ㆍImprovement of the welfare benefit ㆍOperation of the New Pension ㆍImprovement of the welfare benefit welfare benefit system system in consideration of employProgram system in consideration of employees’ needs ees’ needs ㆍSystematic employee health manㆍEnhancement of employee health ㆍSystematic employee health agement management management Enhancement of the ㆍDevelopment of new systems for ㆍImplementation of Intensive Holiday ㆍDevelopment of new systems for work-life balance improving the work-life balance Program, MRD, and Off-duty Day improving the work-life balance Creation of the best work ㆍSatisfaction with general affairs ㆍSatisfaction with general affairs ㆍSatisfaction with general affairs environment service: targeting over 8.7 points service: 8.71 points service: targeting over 8.7 points Establishment of ㆍZero labor dispute ㆍZero labor dispute ㆍZero labor dispute harmonized labormanagement relations Our Response S-OIL has established a productive and healthy this regard, surveys on job efficiency and satcorporate culture where swift communication isfaction are conducted and the results are reis ensured. We operate industry-leading welflected in diverse activities aimed at smoothfare benefit programs that reflect employees’ ing internal communication. In 2016, we held needs, and continue to add items necessary the company-wide presentation on business for the physical and mental well-being of emstatus twice where the management includployees. Furthermore, we strive to provide ing the CEO explained the Company’s operemployees with the best work environment to ating performance and outlook and critical assure higher job efficiency. business issues and had a Q&A session. S-OIL also encourages diverse programs aimed at Establishment of a Healthy expanding communication between leaders Corporate Culture by and their members and strengthening teamEnhancing Communication work. Going forward, the Company will make a concerted effort to boost not only vertical The Company establishes a productive and communication between leaders and their healthy corporate culture which ensures betmembers but also horizontal communication ter job efficiency by enhancing communicaamong individuals or organizations. Year-end party tion among individuals and organizations. In 42 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders Industry-leading Welfare Benefits Employee Health Management S-OIL operates health clinics to properly reWelfare Benefits to Labor Costs To provide a workplace where employees can spond to emergencies that may arise during 2016 feel deeply engaged in their work, S-OIL offers work hours as well as take care of employees’ 2015 industry-leading incentives and welfare benehealth in normal times, and nursery rooms for 2014 fits. In addition to the basic welfare package (4 expectant and breastfeeding mothers at the major public insurances and congratulations & Head Office and the Refinery. The Company condolences program), we offer a specialized also commissions prestigious medical insti26.3% set of benefit programs tailored for life cycle to tutes for annual check-up of employees while 61.6% 62.3% ensure that employees can fully engage in their ensuring a quick and convenient recovery work as well as satisfy themselves in terms of from disease by providing medical subsidies housing, health, children’s education, and leiand a medical leave of absence. Mental stasure activities. In 2016, the Company started bility as well as physical health is critical for the construction of workplace daycare centers full employee engagement. To that end, S-OIL at its Head Office and Onsan Refinery in order runs the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), to help employees with preschool children be a comprehensive consultation service where immersed in their work. The daycare centers outside professionals provide tips on personal will be completed in 2017. problems and job-triggered stress, interpersonal relations at work, family relations, child Introduction of the New care, and more. Pension Program Given that Korea’s average life expectancy is Enhancement of Employee rising fastest in the world while most people Engagement through Refreshment cannot afford a reliable retirement plan, S-OIL Employees are able to be absorbed in their pays full attention to ensuring a stable life for work more creatively and passionately when employees after retirement. In this regard, they strike a balance between work and life S-OIL became the first Korean company to inand have time to recharge themselves. Thus, troduce the “New Pension Program,” a matchwe continue to beef up policies to ensure sufing grant scheme where the Company pitches ficient relaxation from work and chances for in for employees’ post-retirement resources. refreshment for our employees. As part of this, Currently, 99% of total employees subscribed we introduced the Intensive Holiday Program to the program. We will continue to upgrade to assure two-week vacations and the Off-duthe operation of the New Pension Program by ty Day Program in 2010. In addition, the Monthseeking methods to increase employees’ satly Refreshment Day (MRD), started in 2015, alisfaction with this program. The New Pension lows employees to take a leave once every two Program is anticipated to help our employees months, letting them relieve stress from work ease uncertainties over their future while asand spend more time with family. S-OIL runs suring that their life after retirement will be condominiums across the nation available for stable. reservation for employees going on a vacation. Company-wide presentation S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 43 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Employees are also free to check in at hotels Collaborative and resorts in popular tourism destinations Labor-Management Relations in the summer and winter months. More than 50% of employees visit those recreational faOur labor-management relationship has set cilities every year. Going forward, S-OIL plans an example in the industry as there has been to open more recreational facilities available no labor dispute for the past 36 years since the for employees and their family. inception of the labor union in 1980. This resulted from mutual trust and cooperation beProviding Best-in-Class tween the labor union and the Company that Work Environment have respected union activities and listened to the voices of union members as well as comSatisfaction with General S-OIL provides employees with the best-inplied with relevant regulations. The labor and Affairs Service in 2016 class work environment by creating an optimanagement have been collaborating in elemized workplace and serving swift business vating corporate competitiveness, improving support. In 2016, the Company opened the the quality of employees’ lives, and fulfilling 8.71 * Target : 8.7 points points Creative Lounge in the Head Office to help employees practice self-development and take corporate social responsibility through a variety of communication channels including a rest and installed a variety of spaces dedithe Labor-Management Council, the Industrial cated to supporting external projects, which Safety & Health Committee, and joint workNumber of Labor Disputes in 2016 contributes to enhancing business efficiency. shops as well as wage negotiations and collecMoreover, the main auditorium at the Head tive bargaining. Office is offered to employees for a wedding 0 case event of themselves or their children. S-OIL intends to develop new ideas and proposals with the aim of assuring the best-in-class work environment for employees. Creativity Lounge S-OIL Family Athletic Meeting 44 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders E04 Industrial Safety & Health Management Why is This Important? Industrial accidents not only cause loss in ishment for safety violations to control indusworkforce and compromised productivity trial accidents at the government level. Therebut also lead to enormous social costs. In refore, the accident-free plant is the prerequisite sponse, the government has placed the safety for a sustainable growth of society as well as of the people at the top administrative agenda the Company. and stiffened onsite investigations and punOur Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Establishment of an advanced ㆍDNV safety culture score: ㆍDNV safety culture score: ㆍDNV safety culture score: safety culture by tightening over 8.1 points (World Class) 7.9 points over 8.1 points (World Class) the SHE management system ㆍZero safety & environmental ㆍOne fire ㆍZero safety & environmental accident accident Our Response With the setup of the company-wide safety Enhancement of the Company-wide goal in 2016 at building the world’s best safety Safety Management System culture and maintaining zero accident workplaces, S-OIL has made a concerted effort to The Company’s safety management system raise the awareness of safety culture. Particwas further upgraded with the launch of the ularly, the Safety Control Tower focused on Safety Control Tower guided by the Chief Safeenhancing the company-wide safety managety Officer (CSO) and the company-wide Safety ment system encompassing the Onsan RefinManagement Committee in 2016. Major roles ery, terminals, the Head Office, and the Magok of the Safety Control Tower include setup, TS&D Center. practice, evaluation, and feedback of safety policies for all workplaces as well as support World’s Top Safety Culture for safety activities. The head of the Safety & Health Division is designated as the CSO who S-OIL has established an IT-based manageis responsible for improving safety systems DNV Safety Culture Score ment system based upon the check list in and establishing safety goals and policies. (Unit : points) accordance with the toughened SHE (Safety, The Company is also proactive in supporting Health & Environment) regulations and carried safety activities of relevant departments and 7.9 7.4 out a wide array of activities to comply with encouraging individual organizations to vol6.8 SHE requirements. As a result, S-OIL saw its untarily comply with safety regulations and worksite safety culture score rise to a globally procedures. The company-wide Safety Manrecognized level of 7.9 points in 2016, taking a agement Committee is convened every quarstep closer to embedding a safety culture into ter to share a wide array of safety issues such the Company. Going forward, under the operas safety-related policies, goals, systems, ac2014 2015 2016 ation guideline of “Establishing a World-class tivities, and real cases, and deliberate on im*An index to evaluate the level of corporate Safety Worksite Based on SHE-first Manageprovements. safety culture in a quantitative manner created ment,” S-OIL will strive to take its safety culby DNV GL (0~10 points. World Class: over 8.1 points, Leading Edge: 6~8 points) ture to the next level. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 45 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Development of Emergency Company-wide Simulated Response Capability Risk Response Drill We conduct company-wide simulated risk reOperation of the Emergency Control sponse drills in accordance with a ready-made Program (ECP) scenario or in an unexpected manner in order Initial response is critical to prevent an accito enhance emergency response capabilities dent from escalating into a major disaster. Recof employees. Particularly, in 2016, an emerognizing this, S-OIL has established the ECP, gency evacuation in preparation for earthone of the company-wide integrated risk manquake was added. Site response teams and agement systems. In case of an accident, the the top management were able to quickly sum ECP ensures that the Company takes preempup the situation and take proper measures by tive measures in a swift manner by supporting communicating seamlessly in real time, thereZero Accident Declaration Ceremony real-time communication, thus minimizing by proving top class risk response capabilities (Signing Ceremony of the Agreement on Cooperation with Business Partners in damage to the Company and local commuby organic cooperation between the Head OfOccupational Safety & Health) nities. The key feature of the ECP is the ECC fice and the Refinery. S-OIL promises to devel(Emergency Control Center), which convenes op the leading emergency response capabilian emergency meeting if an unlikely accident ties by conducting company-wide emergency ever occurs and shares site information via drills for various situations. video conference system to control the situation. The ECC is activated from the Head Office Support for Safety Management of and the site simultaneously. The command veBusiness Partners hicle dispatched to the site transmits accident status to the ECC in real time, and then the ECC S-OIL formed a consultative body with busiCompany-wide Simulated Risk Response Drill makes immediate decisions based on the live ness partners to share its advanced safefeed to control the site from remote. ty culture practices. The consultative body Education on Safety Management convenes for regular safety meeting once a month and carries out collective inspection S-OIL Emergency Control Program (ECP) on a quarterly basis. It also engages not only ■ times persons 37,447 in promoting the mentoring program among business partners and joint safety campaigns 31,640 30,186 749 but also in offering special lectures on safety culture and education on risk evaluation. In Head Office 2016, 10 business partners who received tech560 ECC nical and financial support from the Company 535 obtained the OHSAS 18001 certification, and Command other 19 business partners acquired the cerCompanyVehicle tification on risk evaluation. S-OIL’s continued wide ECC Map CCTV support for its business partners on safety 2014 2015 2016 management has resulted in the Company Process Information earning the A-Grade from the government in Business partners the evaluation of shared growth programs in ■ times persons 21,230 2015 and 2016. 19,168 Refinery Terminal ECC 580 ECC 9,044 379 335 2014 2015 2016 46 Owners & Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders Other Stakeholders Total Volunteer Work Period by the Sunshine Sharing Public Service Corps 24,154 hours Environmental S-OIL has been investing in the RUC/ODC Project based on a stable Investment financial structure with the aim of laying the foundation for sustainable growth. The Company is also proactive in transparently and accurately KRW16.1 billion disclosing management information to protect stakeholders’ interest as well as pursuing shared growth with business partners. We are not only joining climate change response activities conducted at the Profitability Improvement Results global level but also carrying out differentiated environmental management activities. Our social contribution is implemented in line with our management KRW190.5 billion strategies in order to pursue co-prosperity with local communities. Key Issues Report Subject Aspect (Reporting scope) Major Stakeholders ˙‌Investments in new O01 Investments in Economic Performance ˙Employees, projects new projects (Inside of S-OIL) ˙Shareholders & investors ˙‌Efficiency improvement O02 Improvement of Economic Performance ˙Employees operational efficiency Energy ˙Shareholders & investors (Inside of S-OIL) ˙Establishment of ‌ O03 Establishment of Economic Performance ˙Customers ˙Employees financial soundness financial soundness / Transparency ˙‌Shareholders & investors ˙‌Transparent management transparent management (Inside of S-OIL) ˙Business partners information disclosure information disclosure ˙Local communities ˙Government ˙‌Fair selection of business O04 Management of Supplier Relationship ˙Business partners partners sustainability in the (Inside and Outside of S-OIL) ˙‌‌Management of sustainability supply chain in the supply chain ˙Enhancement of the ‌ O05 Environmental Water ˙Employees environmental management Effluents & Waste ˙Local communities management system Compliance ˙Government ˙ ‌‌Management of air (Inside of S-OIL) pollutants ˙ ‌‌‌Management of environmental impact ˙‌Economic impact of O06 Response to Economic Performance ˙Customers climate change climate change Emission ˙Shareholders & investors (Inside and Outside of S-OIL) ˙Business partners ˙Local communities ˙Government ˙‌Promotion of social O07 Social contribution Local Community ˙Customers ˙Employees contribution activities activities (Inside and Outside of S-OIL) ˙Local communities ˙Government ˙Economic development of ‌ O08 Contribution to Local Community ˙Customers ˙Employees local communities local communities (Inside and Outside of S-OIL) ˙Local communities ˙‌Handling of grievances of ˙Government local communities ˙Evaluation of the refinery’s impacts on local communities S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 47 Sustainable & Profitable Growth O01 Investment in New Projects Why is This Important? Under uncertain business environments such able growth. Thus, investments in new projas prolonged global economic recession and ects based on the diversification strategy will intensifying competition among refiners, it is become a driving force for securing future imperative for us to secure a long-term growth growth engines. strategy and core competences for sustainOur Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Successful completion of the ㆍTarget rate of completion: 31% ㆍActual rate of completion: 35% ㆍTarget rate of completion: 92% RUC/ODC Project Enhancement of technological ㆍ‌Starting the construction of the ㆍStarted the construction of the ㆍCompletion of the TS&D Center competitiveness in the TS&D Center TS&D Center petrochemical downstream ㆍRecruitment of talents for ㆍRecruitment of talents in the ㆍ‌Additional recruitment of talents business by building the operating the TS&D Center petrochemical business and for operating the TS&D Center TS&D Center relevant academies ㆍDevelopment of training ㆍCompletion of the development ㆍ‌Implementation of training programs in collaboration with of training programs programs in collaboration with technology partners technology partners Our Response To realize the Vision 2025 aimed at evolving tailed design, procurement, and construction. into the most competitive and admired enerDetailed design was perfectly finished with a gy & chemical company in Asia Pacific, S-OIL 3D modeling technology in view of the stabilihas been promoting the Residue Upgrading ty of facility operation, operational efficiency, Complex & Olefin Downstream Complex (RUC/ and maintenance conditions. Currently, the ODC) Project since 2015 after receiving apblueprint is being produced in line with the proval from the BOD. In addition, the Technical construction schedule on time. We selected Service & Development Center (TS&D Center) suppliers and contractors through a fair and is under construction with the aim of strengthtransparent bid process and have made asening technological competitiveness needed surance for quality control and timely supply for developing petrochemical downstream of materials. The construction processes, inproducts and ensuring smooth technical supcluding civil engineering, steel-frame works, port for customers. plumbing, and equipment installation, are being actively implemented. S-OIL will strive Successful Progress of the to ensure high-quality construction manageRUC/ODC Project ment and strict onsite safety control to make this project move forward as planned. Now we Through years of meticulous examination into are also setting up plans for commissioning the strategic directions, S-OIL has been imbefore the commercial operation in 2018. plementing the RUC/ODC Project by investing about KRW 4.79 trillion, the largest investment in its history. As of the end of 2016, about 35% of the entire process was completed with favorable progress in all areas, including de48 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders RUC/ODC Project Construction Site Progress of the RUC/ODC Project Upon the completion of the RUC/ODC Project, Enhancement of Technical Service Rate of progress (target) S-OIL will demonstrate its unrivaled compeCapabilities for the Petrochemical tence to produce high value-added products Downstream Business 2018 100% such as gasoline by capitalizing on residue, thereby increasing profitability from the fuel In the petrochemical downstream business 2017 92% business. This project will also allow us to with a wide spectrum of products, it is essenproduce high value-added petrochemical tial to enhance Technical Service capabilities products including polypropylene (PP) and needed for product development and techni2016 35% propylene oxide (PO), which will ensure high cal assistance tailored to meet market needs. profitability and stable business diversificaTo this end, S-OIL started the construction 2015 6% tion. S-OIL will focus its capabilities on sucof the TS&D Center on a site spanning 29,100 cessfully completing the RUC/ODC Project in square meters in the Magok Industrial Comorder to enhance competitiveness and evenplex, Seoul, in 2016. The construction of the tually increase corporate value. The InternaChemical Pilot Building and the Lube Test tional Maritime Organization (IMO) intends Building is progressing favorably with a schedto significantly strengthen global sulfur cap ule of completion set in 2017, which will conon marine fuel from 3.5% to 0.5% in order to tribute to enhancing R&D capabilities for the protect the atmospheric environment. This is petrochemical downstream business and the a great risk for oil refineries that do not have existing lube business, respectively. The Comsufficient desulfurization facilities. The RUC/ pany also gives impetus to building systems ODC Project will significantly increase the caand processes to support the development pacity of our desulfurization capacity and it is of value-added products and core technoloan optimal response to sulfur regulations. gies. Diverse joint researches with prestigious colleges have been conducted since 2015 with the aim of cultivating talented researchers and securing technological competitiveness. In 2016, we started the development of a variety of training programs in cooperation with major technical partners. Going forward, the TS&D Center will play a key role in securing new technologies as well as supporting existing businesses, contributing to developing new business opportunities and creating future growth engines. Aerial View of the TS&D Center S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 49 Sustainable & Profitable Growth O02 ‌Improvement of Operational Efficiency Why is This Important? The competition in the industry is becoming environment for oil refining companies. Faced increasingly intense due to a supply glut from with these market conditions, operational exthe expansion of refining and petrochemical cellence should be secured through a variety facilities across the world. And low crude oil of profit improvement activities in order to enprices triggered by the emergence of shale hance a company’s competitive edge. gas have given rise to an uncertain business Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Profitability improvement from ㆍ‌Upgrade of lube and ultra-low ㆍCompletion of the upgrade of ㆍ‌Upgrade of aromatics production existing facilities through the sulfur diesel production facilities lube and ultra-low sulfur diesel facilities SUPER Project and the RFCC complex production facilities and the RFCC complex Enhancement of ㆍProfitability improvement target: ㆍProfitability improvement result: ㆍProfitability improvement target: competitiveness through KRW 97 billion KRW 190.5 billion KRW 80.9 billion diverse profitability improvement activities Continuous energy saving ㆍPractice of five energy saving ideas ㆍ‌Completion of the practice of five ㆍPractice of six energy saving ideas energy saving ideas Realization of Work-Smart by ㆍRealization of Work-Smart by ㆍImprovement of the ERP and ㆍRealization of Work-Smart by upgrading IT systems upgrading IT systems ATSS servers, and replacement of upgrading IT systems outdated IT infrastructure Our Response Promotion of the SUPER Project stage of the package-1 project aimed at lube upgrading and RFCC upgrading, completed in In order to elevate the profitability of exist2016, contributed to increasing the producing production facilities, S-OIL is promoted tion capacity of lube oil, gasoline, propylene, the SUPER Project (S-OIL Upgrading Project and steam, and reducing energy consumption of Existing Refinery) for Onsan Refinery. This with the extension of the repair cycle. The project aims to secure higher process volume package-2 MHC (Mild Hydrocracker) revampof production facilities, increase the producing project, completed in 2016, increased the tion capacity of high value-added products, diesel production capacity by over 20 thouextend the repair cycle, and reduce energy sand barrels, upgraded diesel quality, and consumption. Started in 2015 after receiving reduced the use of additives. The annual proapproval from the BOD, the SUPER Project duction capacity of para-xylene rose by 140 has been implemented in three packages in thousand tons backed by the completion of consideration of construction volume, level of the first stage of the package-3 CFU/Aromatics difficulty in revamping by process, schedule by revamping project in 2015. Upon the compleprocess, and work efficiency. The first stage of tion of the second stage in the 1st half of 2017, the package-1 project to upgrade the hydrocthe production capacity of aromatics further racking process, completed in 2015, allowed increases as crude oil can be treated through us to increase the production capacity of the CFU. The Company sees the SUPER Project kerosene, diesel, and lube oil as well as to excreating higher profits compared with the intend our repair cycle to four years. The second vestment of KRW 370 billion. The profitability 50 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders improvement effect of this project amounts to sand tons and created profitability improveKRW 200 billion a year in consideration of curment of KRW 2.5 billion through successful rent oil prices. We expect it to reach KRW 230 commercial operation of waste heat power billion when completed the second stage of generation facilities. The introduction of low the package-3 project in 2017 and to create apcost steam from LS-Nikko Copper and Korea proximately 130 thousand jobs every year. Our Zinc Company around our Onsan Refinery has strict safety control has tolerated no industrial allowed us to cut energy consumption and accident until now. those companies to create additional profits. S-OIL will continue to explore new items for Profitability Improvement Activities shared growth in energy by cooperating with neighboring suppliers, participating in governResults of Profitability S-OIL has made a concerted effort to improve ment-led energy efficiency policy and pushing Improvement Activities in 2016 operational efficiency by minimizing loss facto become a refinery with the highest energy tors throughout all processes from import of efficiency in the Asia Pacific. crude oil to production and market distribuRealization of Work-Smart by KRW 190.5 billions tion. Major focuses have been on optimizing operational conditions of production faciliUpgrading IT Systems ties, increasing production capacity of high value-added products, and reducing fuel conS-OIL has been creating the Work-Smart ensumption. To this end, a dedicated team was vironment by capitalizing on IT systems with organized to monitor and control the quantithe aim of swiftly and flexibly responding to fication of profitability and diverse relevant changes of management surroundings and indices in a consistent manner. The profitabilconducting work more efficiently. In 2016, upity improvement reward system and the comgrading the ERP-BW Analytics system enabled pany-wide proposal system were launched to information analysis to be more convenient HYC Upgrading encourage employees to join the activities. As and competitive, and revamping the ERP for a result, we achieved an estimated profit inpolymer premarketing also supported the crease of KRW 190.5 billion in 2016. RUC/ODC Project in an efficient manner. Moreover, upgrading and dualizing the ATSS (AutoReduction of Energy Consumption mated T/T Scheduling System) server ensured and Efficiency Improvement higher safety and efficiency in product transportation, while replacing outdated IT infraThe Company has reduced energy consumpstructure improved stability and performance tion by commissioning professional consulting of entire IT systems. Lube Upgrading agencies and gathering the ideas of engineers. In 2016, we reduced GHG emissions of 61 thouPromotion of the SUPER Project Classification Details Completion Effects Increase of the production capacity of HYC Upgrading Nov. 2015 kerosene, diesel, and lube base oil Extension of the repair cycle (3 → 4 years) Increase of the lube base oil production capacity MHC Revamping Package-1 Lube Upgrading Extension of the repair cycle Reduction of energy consumption Increase of the production capacity of RFCC Upgrading Nov. 2016 propylene and gasoline Increase of the steam production capacity Increase of the diesel production capacity Package-2 MHC Revamping Improvement of diesel quality Reduction of use of additives CFU/Aromatics Revamping (1st stage) Nov. 2015 Increase of the para-xylene production capacity Package-3 Treatment of diverse crude oils through the CFU CFU/Aromatics Revamping (2nd stage) May 2017 Increase of aromatics production volume S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 51 Sustainable & Profitable Growth O03 Establishment of Financial Soundness / Transparent Management Information Disclosure Why is This Important? Securing financial flexibility and maintaining a tion disclosure helps solve information imbalstable financial structure that is undisturbed ance, announces major decisions and changes by environmental changes are prerequisites to in financial status, and protects the interest of ensuring sustainable growth of a company. In stakeholders. addition, transparent management informaOur Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Maintenance of a stable ㆍMaintenance of excellent credit ㆍMaintenance of industry-leading ㆍMaintenance of excellent credit financial structure ratings credit ratings ratings Financial resources for ㆍOptimized fundraising for the ㆍFundraising with competitive ㆍSuccessful fundraising for the investments in sustainable RUC/ODC Project methods including corporate RUC/ODC Project growth bonds Balanced performance sharing ㆍBalanced performance sharing ㆍIndustry-leading dividend ㆍBalanced performance sharing payments Transparent management ㆍZero violation of disclosure ㆍZero violation of disclosures, one ㆍZero violation of disclosure information disclosure training session on disclosure ㆍProactive IR activities ㆍEight NDRs, participation in eight ㆍProactive IR activities IR conferences Our Response Maintenance of a Stable Financial it rating agencies have highly appreciated our Structure credit rating in consideration of S-OIL’s strategic importance to Saudi Aramco and increasTo ensure stable fundraising and financial ing possibility of business and financial supsoundness, S-OIL monitors major financial port from the parent company as well as our indices on a regular basis and makes financial excellence in financial soundness. For these decisions based on the results. Particularly, reasons, despite large-scale capital financing our credit ratings from both domestic and forfor the investments in new projects, S-OIL has eign credit rating agencies have remained at a maintained the highest credit ratings among high level backed by proactively managing key domestic refiners. indicators needed for credit evaluation. CredS-OIL’s Credit Ratings (As of December 31, 2016) Overseas Domestic Moody’s S&P Korea Ratings NICE Investors Service Korea Investors Service Baa2 BBB AA+ AA+ AA+ 52 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders Securing Financial Resources for Honest Tax Payment Sustainable Investment S-OIL believes honest tax payment is one of S-OIL has been raising large-scale funds on its responsibilities for the development of the competitive terms and conditions for the sucnational economy and local communities as a cessful completion of the RUC/UDC Project corporate citizen. Therefore, we always comby capitalizing on its financial excellence. For ply with tax related laws and regulations and example, the Company signed an agreement pay our taxes faithfully according to our tax on a KRW 1.5 trillion long-term loan for facilpolicy. Moreover, detailed tax items such as ity construction and a KRW 1.2 trillion standcorporate tax, deferred corporate tax, and the by credit line commitment with nine financial available tax rate are reported on through the companies, securing financial flexibility that independent auditors’ report and disclosed to helps raise funds any time during the project. the public through the DART system as well. What’s more, we have secured KRW 400 billion in 2015 and KRW 700 billion in 2016 by issuing Tax Policy corporate bonds at the most competitive conditions in the financial market. These results With a belief that honest tax payment is one of allow us not only to reduce financial costs its responsibilities for the development of the but also to preemptively respond to possible national economy and local communities as a corporate citizen, S-OIL complies with the interest rate increase risks. Meanwhile, S-OIL following tax policies. has secured KRW 4.2 trillion in available cash as of the end of 2016 by achieving record-high 1. ‌We faithfully comply with tax related laws and international standards (OECD guidelines, etc.). operating performance. By capitalizing on 2. ‌We disclose tax payment results based on funds raised by an optimal plan and cash flows timeliness, transparency, and clarity principles. generated by business activities, S-OIL will 3. ‌We do not practice tax accounting that is push ahead with the largest-ever investment abnormal or that distorts the original intention of tax law. project in its history without setbacks. 4. ‌We respect local tax regulations in countries or regions where we do business. Budget Management for Efficient Resource Allocation The Company makes up and executes its budget in a systematic manner to ensure efficient allocation of fund resources. The ZBB (Zero Base Budgeting) system is operating to avoid waste in the budget and formulate optimized budget that is organically linked with corporate management policies and strategies, and a strict review of budget management departments should be preceded before executing the budget. In 2016, we also focused on minimizing waste in the budget and reducing costs at the enterprise level in order to support the successful completion of the RUC/UDC Project. Going forward, the systematic and objective setup and execution of the budget will continue to improve the efficiency of resource allocation. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 53 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Balanced Performance Sharing IR Activities to Enhance Corporate Value Dividend Payments in 2016 We promote a rational dividend policy aimed at harmonizing internal capital reserves and S-OIL is working on IR activities to provide Cash dividend payout ratio the return of profits to shareholders, thereby shareholders and investors with management maximizing corporate value and increasing information and enhance corporate value. For 59.8 % shareholder value. Despite the largest-ever investments, S-OIL paid a record-high diviexample, we survey analysts about their satisfaction on our IR activities every year and then dend in 2016 backed by achieving excellent reflect the results in upgrading the quality of Cash dividend yield operating performance and retaining financial IR activities. In particular, the major focus of soundness. The Company will continue to rethe IR in 2016 was on delivering correct infor7.3 % turn profits created through business activities to shareholders in consideration of finanmation on the RUC/ODC Project as well as the favorable business environment. We conductcial conditions, the level of profit reserves, and ed non-deal road shows eight times and pardebt redemption ability, pursuing shareholdticipated in large-scale IR conferences seven er-centric management. times in 2016. We will make efforts to actively announce the anticipated effects from the Compliance with Disclosure completion of the RUC/ODC Project more efRegulations ficiently in order to be held in high esteem by shareholders and investors. Major Financial Indicators in 2016 In order to enhance shareholder trust and Total liabilities to equity ratio (Stability) comply with disclosure regulations, S-OIL Distribution of Created is proactive in monitoring enactment and Economic Value in 2016 (Unit: KRW in billions) amendment of relevant regulations and offer118.5 % ing education on those matters to employees, which prevents omissions of disclosure items. Employees Salary and pension 478.9 In 2016, we educated all employees about Return on equity (Profitability) what we should pay attention in accordance Government Taxes and dues 388.3 with amended disclosure regulations. As a reLocal Social 22.8 20.5 % sult, we were able to transparently announce our management information to shareholders communities contribution expenditure 56.3 Distributed economic Creditors Interest costs value and investors by disclosing 55 items with no viOperating income growth ratio 2,153.4 olation of disclosure regulations in 2016. Edu(Growth and activity) Shareholders, Dividend, cation on disclosure will continue with the aim 1,207.1 company reserves of raising the awareness of the importance of 297.8 % transparent disclosure and ensuring compliance with regulations. ■ Stakeholder ■ Item 54 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders O04 Management of Sustainability in Supply Chain Why is This Important? Securing a stable supply chain and encourshared growth based on mutual trust. In the aging healthy competition among suppliers aspect of sustainability management, comare very important to corporate sustainable panies are required to create new business growth. It is also critical to ensure fair and opportunities for co-prosperity with suppliers transparent supplier selection procedures for as well as to minimize risks from suppliers by the establishment of a favorable environment helping them secure competitiveness. where a company and its suppliers can enjoy Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Improvement of suppliers’ ㆍSupplier invitation program ㆍImplementation of the supplier ㆍSupplier invitation program understanding of our (once a year) invitation program once a year (once a year, Encourage new purchasing policy (413 suppliers attended)) suppliers’ participation) ㆍEvaluation of suppliers’ ㆍEvaluation of supplier ㆍ‌Evaluation of suppliers’ satisfaction satisfaction on purchasing: satisfaction on purchasing: on purchasing: over 9.3 points over 9.3 points 9.39 points (680 suppliers) Enhancement of bidding ㆍDevelopment of 180 new ㆍRegistration of 198 suppliers ㆍDevelopment of 180 new suppliers competence by discovering suppliers new suppliers Our Response Improvement of the Critical Suppliers: 18 companies including Saudi Aramco Procurement Process Selection Standards Transparency, objectivity, and fairness in procurement have innovatively improved since the 1. ‌Stable and sustainable crude oil supplier: introduction of new systems such as Auto-InviSaudi Aramco 2. Irreplaceable supplier tation and Blind-Bidding in 2013. Procurement 3. ‌Long-term stable maintenance service supplier of goods and services is initiated through au4. Patent supplier such as main process licensor tomatically inviting all suppliers who joined each sourcing group through preliminary reviews of the Sourcing Group(SG) Deliberation Improvement of the SRM System Committee in accordance with the Auto-Invitation procedure. And then main suppliers are The Company has been operating the SRM selected through the Blind-Bidding procedure (Supplier Relationship Management) system guided by automatic quotation bidding of the since 2010 with the purpose of selecting supe-Procurement system. This new procurement pliers in a fair and transparent manner. The process enables the selection of suppliers to SRM system ensures objectivity and reliability be more transparent and fair. We plan to conas supplier evaluation is conducted on the basistently upgrade our procurement process by sis of the Korea Enterprise Data (KED)’s credit activating communication with suppliers. ratings and performance assessment on suppliers. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 55 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Systematic Supplier Sustainability to risks, etc., we conduct in-depth evaluations Management through the SG Deliberation Committee consisting of professionals in the fields of compliThe Company established the zero accident of ance, technology, and management. In 2016, safety & environment and the ethics managea total of 144 suppliers were evaluated by the ment as the goal of supply chain sustainability SG Deliberation Committee. Suppliers who management, and systemically manages its fall short of the standards or have disqualiInformation Session for Suppliers suppliers. The Company evaluates not only fications in the aspect of sustainability are suppliers’ basic competence such as financial excluded from the sourcing group. Moreover, Procurement in 2016 stability and technological prowess but also suppliers of S-OIL are required to submit and (Units: KRW in billions) their sustainability competence encompasspractice a pledge on complying with our Code ing business ethics, conflicts of interest, safety, of Ethics. The Company has invited suppliers KRW 16,040.9 billions and the environment. Bidding opportunities are given to only suppliers who pass the evalfor training on our procurement system and our Code of Ethics and checking their compli13,027.5 uation process, and all suppliers are required ance every year since 2013. In 2016, a total of to be reevaluated annually. When there is nec413 suppliers were invited to this program. essary to conduct an in-depth evaluation due Ethics Policy for Suppliers 1,555.8 1,320.5 S-OIL’s suppliers shall comply with the S-OIL Supplier Ethics Policy as stated below and shall make efforts to build sustainable supply chains. 137.1 1. ‌We comply with international ethics-related regulations as well as anti-corruption and anti-bribery Crude ConstrucGeneral Materials regulations as a member of the nation and local communities. oil/oil tion / mainservice 2. We do not carry out any illegal act such as bid rigging that affects cost estimates. products tenance 3. We do not provide or promise to give valuables or entertainment to project owners. 4. We eliminate discrimination in terms of gender, race, nationality, disability, religion, and union activity. Korea Europe 5. ‌We respect business partners and their employees, and do not have an impersonal manner. We do not restrain employees’ physical and psychological freedom illegally, and we do not force people to work against 2,709.1 101.5 their will. Asia Americas 6. ‌We comply with the working hour requirement and the minimum wage as determined by labor-related laws 124.0 74.1 and regulations. 7. ‌We prohibit employment of minors under the age of 15, and exclude employees under the age of 18 from Middle East Others work with higher potential health and safety risks. 0.1 4.6 8. ‌We guarantee the freedom of association, and prohibit any disadvantage from it. 9. ‌We comply with labor conditions determined by labor-related laws and regulations in each country and region. 10. ‌We provide employees and relevant staff with a safe and healthy work environment, and take proper action to prevent them from being exposed to potential safety risks. 11. ‌We comply with environmental laws and regulations, and recognize that environmental protection is our basic social responsibility. 12. ‌We strive for continuous job creation, and implement social contribution activities for the development of local communities and the national economy. 13. We make our best effort to apply S-OIL’s procurement policy to our suppliers. KRW 3,013.5 billions Direction of Supply Chain Sustainability Management *Excluding crude oil/oil products ·‌Enhancement of fairness and transparency in the selection of bidders by systematically improving the supplier evaluation process ·Saving on purchasing prices and quality management costs through the differentiation of suppliers ·Integration of procurement processes & enhancement of interactive information sharing with the suppliers ·Enhancement of collaboration with outstanding suppliers ·Provision of adequate information to support decision-making for effective purchasing 56 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders O05 Environment Management Why is This Important? Today, the government and local communities fining industry as wide-ranging environmental expect and require more corporate responsiissues are likely to arise concerning the hanbilities for environmental management. dling, production, transfer and delivery of raw Particularly, systematic measures to control materials. pollutant emissions are necessary in the reOur Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Environmental performance evaluation ㆍ110 points ㆍ113.8 points ㆍ120 points Reduction of environmental pollutant ㆍ215.9% reduction of air ㆍ‌22.5% reduction of air pollutants emissions by systematic management pollutants compared with 2008 (by 2016) ㆍ‌31% reduction of benzene ㆍ‌65% reduction of benzene ㆍ‌50% reduction of benzene emissions compared with 2009 emissions emissions compared with 2009 ㆍ‌Maintenance of the rate of ㆍ‌Rate of fugitive emissions of ㆍ‌Maintenance of the rate of fugitive fugitive emissions under 0.5% 0.13% emissions under 0.3% Enhancement of emergency response ㆍImplementation of at least two ㆍThree company-wide emergency ㆍEnhancement of emergency ability to leakage of oils and emergency drills drills (twice for hazardous response ability through hazardous chemical substances chemical substances, once for oil consistent drills spills) ㆍZero oil spill ㆍZero oil spill ㆍZero oil spill Compliance with environmental ㆍZero violation ㆍZero violation ㆍZero violation regulations Promotion of registering ㆍInspection and selection of ㆍSelection of chemical substances ㆍCheckup on changes in chemical chemical substances with the chemical substances subject to subject to registration substances subject to registration government registration ㆍAgreement on joint registration ㆍ‌Agreement on joint registration ㆍ‌Purchasing, production, and in the industry by chemical of chemical substances submission of registration data substance (continuously) concerning chemical substances Our Response To minimize pollutant discharge and environvamping production processes and introducmental impacts, S-OIL has been operating a ing new technologies, but also secure envimethodical environmental management sysronmental impact reduction facilities such Environmental Performance Evaluation tem and preemptively responding to diverse as desulfurization, denitrification, wastewa(Unit: No. of points) environmental regulations. ter treatment, and dust collection facilities. Since 1996, ISO 14001 has been adopted to 113.8 100.0 Methodical Environmental all production processes and terminals step Management System by step, which has enabled us to carry out systematic environmental management activEnvironmental Management Strategy ities throughout the entire product life cycle. and System Moreover, our environmental management At S-OIL, preemptive green management system has been upgraded by continuously 2015 2016 has been the first priority of its environmenincreasing environmental investment, con*We redefined 2015 as the base year by adopting the ISO 14001:2015 certification and tal policy. We not only produce high-quality ducting objective evaluations on environmentightening environmental regulations as well eco-friendly products by continuously retal performance, and operating the ISO 14031 as adjusting certain indices. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 57 Sustainable & Profitable Growth certification. The environmental performance 130,000 to 430,000 points, efficiently innovaevaluation process includes selecting envitively reducing the leakage rate of HAPs. In ronmental indices, gathering and analyzing 2016, we strictly controlled the leakage denenvironmental data, assessing environmental sity under 500 ppm compared with the legal performance, conducting regular reviews and 2,000 ppm, resulting in lowering the rate of making improvements to help stakeholders fugitive emissions to 0.13%. Meanwhile, S-OIL and the management make decisions. is upgrading facilities based on ready-made in-house guidelines in response to the Clean Environmental Accounting (EA) System Air Conservation Act, which was amended in Environmental Accounting in 2016 S-OIL established and has been operating an 2015 for tightening fugitive emissions of HAPs. (Unit: KRW in billions) in-house environmental accounting system in In addition, we signed an agreement on auton151.5 accordance with the government’s guidelines omous environmental management aimed at with the aim of objectively judging environreducing 31% of benzene discharge by 2017, mental investments and their ensuing percompared to that of 2009. In response, the 64.4 formance as well as practicing the philosophy Company set up its internal reduction target 16.1 of environmental management. In 2016, our at 50% and thoroughly controlled benzene environmental investment focused on replacemissions, resulting in outperforming the taring pump dual seals, introducing digital TMS get and reaching 65%. to prevent the direct emission* of HAPs (Hazardous Air Pollutants) and improving energy Water Quality Control Environmental Environmental Environmental investments benefits costs efficiency. Going forward, the Company will S-OIL runs a waste water treatment plant in a continue to develop midand long-term envistable manner to minimize the impact on the ronmental investment items to take the initianearby sea. Waste water is treated by physical, tive in environmental management. chemical, and biological methods at the plant *‌Fugitive emissions refer to substances that arise from to ensure pollutants are effectively removed. Air Pollutant Emissions Intensity at production processes and facilities, etc. which are directly The Tele-Metering System (TMS) transmits Onsan Refinery in 2016 emitted into the air without filters such as smokestacks designated by the Ministry of Environment. data on water quality to administrative agen180 ppm 30 mg/S㎥ cies in real time in preparation of an emergen150 ppm Environmental Pollutant Control cy. These efforts have resulted in the Company and Environmental Effect being recognized as a leading business in TMS Evaluation operation in 2015. S-OIL also expanded rainfall 86.9 82.6 storage tanks and strengthened monitoring of Air Pollutant Control 20 kinds of specific substances harmful to wa2.9 S-OIL has in place much stricter in-house ter quality such as Cu, Pb, and As, contributing emission standards than legally required to to improving water quality. ■ SOx ■ NOx reduce air pollutants. Using clean by-prod■ Dust uct gases and low-sulfur fuel oil as fuel, S-OIL Soil Environment Control Legal Limit commits itself to cutting emissions. We have The Company carries out regular checks as made continued investment in environmental well as legally mandatory inspections to preWater Pollutant Emissions Intensity facilities such as ULNB (Ultra Low NOx Burner) vent soil pollution in plant areas, including terat Onsan Refinery in 2016 and SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction), and minals. We also continue to improve facilities 40 ppm electrical precipitator, which resulted in mainin a systematic manner by laying pipes on the taining a high rate of pollutant control. In adground instead of underground. Signing the dition, the LDAR (Leak Detection and Repair) “Voluntary Agreement on Soil Environmental systemically controls the direct emission of Protection” with the Ministry of Environment, 10 ppm 8.0 HAPs, which may be produced during product S-OIL conducts not only voluntary soil pollu3.8 2.6 storage, delivery, and processing, into the air tion inspections on its terminals and service without being filtered by vents as prescribed stations but also prompt soil restoration ac■ BOD by the enforcement decree of the Ministry of tivities in case of discovering soil pollution. ■ COD ■ SS Environment. Since 2015, we have expanded To follow the agreement, we conduct legal Legal Limit the LDAR management point from the existing inspections as necessary to monitor soil pollu58 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders tion while carrying out voluntary inspections ing wells to prevent oil spill accidents. Moreevery three years to prevent soil pollution. over, the Company executes refinery-wide Moreover, our new and remodeled service emergency drills against leakage of hazardous stations are built with the concept of “Clean chemical substances and oils based on readyService Station.” Clean Service Stations are made scenarios every year. Going forward, environmentally-friendly facilities as they S-OIL plans to develop various scenarios and prevent leakage of pollutants with double-laymanuals in preparation for oil spills and chemered tanks and pipelines. Even if pollutants are ical leakage and enhance tailored emergency leaked, leakage sensors and alarms go off indrills. stantly, stopping spread of pollution in a swift manner. Prevention of Oil Spills In order to prevent marine oil spills, S-OIL opWaste Control erates the Vetting System which bars vessels Waste Generation and Waste S-OIL has strived to reduce waste discharge that fall short of strict safety standards from Recycling at Onsan Refinery in 2016 while increasing the recycling rate to create a entering port facilities. Under the system, all (Unit: tons) virtuous circle of eco-friendly resources. We vessels are evaluated on their risk factors and 17,515 have maintained a high rate of waste recycling only double-hulled tankers are permitted into by strictly practicing separate waste collecthe port in order to minimize risk of oil spill tion. In 2015, S-OIL participated in the “Indusresulting from vessel accidents. We also have 8,859 trial Sectors’ Declaration for Sustainable Koa protection system consisting of radar, tidal 8,564 rea 2030,” affirming its strong commitment to current measurement, and mooring tension 6,166 enhancing the nation’s resources circulation measurement systems as well as the SPM and resources productivity. Other activities (Single Point Mooring), which is the onshore for better waste control include discovering mooring facilities for VLCCs, for the first time Generation Generation Recycling Recycling competitive waste recycling companies and among domestic refining companies. In 2015, of of of of upgrading waste control facilities for preventthe Oil Spill Free TFT was organized with a Designated General designated general waste waste waste waste ing fire accidents and pollutant emissions. We mission to lower oil spill accidents to zero. We will continue to invest in technology developalso installed CCTVs on water surface cleaners ment to improve the recycling rate. for 24-hour monitoring of SPMs and oil fences around the pier for bunker-c oil, enhancing our Prevention of Hazardous Substance capabilities to respond to an emergency and Leakage to prevent the expansion of oil spills. We have S-OIL has systematic response procedures to a plan to install oil spill detectors on the seaprevent leakage of hazardous chemical subfront and emergency shut-down valves to funstances on land under which facilities are subdamentally prevent marine pollution. Also, the ject to regular inspection and drills are held to Company will install oil spills detectors at the beef up emergency response capabilities. For coast and emergency block valves at pipelines example, we have installed oil spill detectors of a loading port to prevent marine oil spills in more than 30 rain water drains and monitoruntil 2018. Leakage Response Mock Training S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 59 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Response to Environmental Effect on potential environmental impact is carried Evaluation and Environmental out and insufficiencies are promptly correctRegulations ed, solidifying our autonomous environmental management system. We also cope with Implementation of Environmental the government’s environmental policy in a Effect Evaluation positive manner and reflect changes in enviS-OIL has been recognized as an eco-friendly ronmental regulations in our management company that fully complies with the Environstrategies. Particularly, relevant departments mental Impact Assessment Act and pursues convene a meeting every month in order to corporate growth with consideration of posreview environmental regulations, report the sible environmental impact on neighboring results to the management, and share those areas. In case of new projects or large-scale with production departments. construction, we commission professional environmental effect evaluators to adopt pollutInternal and External Communication ant reduction methods in project design and We collect global environmental management execute periodic measurements of air, water, trends and changes in relevant regulations at the ecosystem, and soil quality. The result of home and abroad through communication environmental effect evaluation is submitted with various stakeholders including local comto administrative agencies before the project. munities, the government, the media, and What’s more, we implement follow-up enviacademia, and reflect those data in our comronmental effect evaluations even during and pany-wide environmental management sysafter the project for the purpose of minimizing tem. Local communities, relevant institutions, any environmental impact from our businessand other stakeholders are also able to share es. our environmental management information and propose their opinions to the Company. Preemptive Response to Tightening S-OIL is proactive in participating diverse enEnvironmental Regulations vironmental events in local communities and The Company responds to tightening envisupporting local small-sized companies for ronmental regulations in accordance with its environmental activities, thereby widening environmental policy “Preemptive Green Manrelationships with local communities and conagement.” As part of this, we build optimized tributing to their environmental improvement. pollution prevention facilities from the initial We will continue to comply with environmenstage of refinery construction and prepare tal regulations and satisfy environmental restricter in-house environmental criteria than quirements of local communities. legal requirements. And daily self-inspection Preemptive Response to Environmental Regulations Regulation Main Content Revised Our Responses · ‌Tighten the criteria for handling and · Ongoing ‌ investment in safety facility improvement facilities to prevent hazardous chemical · Autonomously ‌ reviewed and improved hazardous chemical substance related accidents substance facilities · ‌Enhance prompt reporting of chemical · Expanded ‌ personal protective equipment and enhanced Chemicals accidents and penalties when accidents response training against chemical accidents Control Act occur · Set ‌ up and submitted off-site consequence analysis and risk · ‌Newly establish off-site consequence management plans analysis and risk management plans, · Enhanced ‌ safety training about hazardous chemical implement safety training, etc. substances · ‌Recorded and reported the process in accordance with facility control criteria Clean Air · ‌Prepare facility control criteria for · ‌Completed the improvement of dual sealing pumps for HAPs Conservation reducing fugitive emissions of HAPs · ‌Completed the improvement of closed liquid samplers Act · ‌Completed the installation of VRUs at terminals · ‌Enhanced LDAR management 60 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders O06 Response to Climate Change Why is This Important? The Paris Agreement whereby UNFCCC memGHG emissions BAU by 2030. The construction bers made a pledge on joint responses to of an eco-friendly factory will become a signifclimate change at the COP21 was officially icant challenge or opportunity to S-OIL, which launched in November 2016. The Korean govis concentrating on the RUC/ODC Project, the ernment also promised to reduce 37% of its largest investment in its history. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Strategic carbon response ㆍAdvancement of the company-wide ㆍCompletion of advancement ㆍImplementation of the emissions emissions trading scheme response trading scheme system Communication to solidify ㆍObtainment of certifications on ‌ ㆍCompletion of certification ‌ㆍObtainment and renewal of our position as an eco-friendly carbon management (CTS, etc.) certifications on carbon company management Our Response We believe the Paris Agreement will bring more inspection process and being certified by a business opportunities to us and changing third-party assessor. The real-time energy public attitudes regarding climate change will monitoring system built in 2010 has enabled us have an enormous effect on our brand value. to analyze process operation information and In response, S-OIL considers climate change as energy consumption patterns. Moreover, we a pressing issue and proactively participates reformed the organization and procedures to in global GHG reduction efforts by operating build an enterprise-wide collaboration system an advanced carbon management system. for estimating emissions volume and ensuing financial costs and setting up emissions tradEstablishment of a System to ing plans. In particular, we reflect carbon costs Respond to the Emissions Trading in our midto long-term operation and investScheme ment plans to ensure efficient resource allocation and encourage employees’ participation Korea became the first Asian country to opby introducing the energy efficiency index in erate the emissions trading scheme (ETC) in connection with organizational strategy as an 2015. The ETC price soared in 2016, which inindividual KPI. S-OIL is committed to systemcreased financial burden on a lot of compaatically responding to the emissions trading nies. In order to preemptively respond to the scheme by capitalizing on accumulated GHG ETC, S-OIL has established an IT-based carbon management knowhow. inventory system featuring its complex process since 2012. Today, our carbon monitoring competence outperforms the government’s requirements by adopting a stricter in-house S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 61 Sustainable & Profitable Growth GHG Reduction Performance Business Diversification to Meet Changes in Demand GHG Emissions in 2016 S-OIL devotes itself to reducing direct GHG Scope I/II emissions to minimize both regulatory and fiS-OIL is carrying out the RUC/ODC Project with nancial risks. To this end, we continuously dea schedule of completion set in 2018 in order 7,609 velop new tasks for energy efficiency improveto flexibly respond to changing demand for oil thousand ton CO2e ment through internal and external energy products. This is our strategic choice that aims diagnosis, and adopt those to environmental to positively cope with the rapidly-changing management activities step by step. More than business environment by reorganizing our Intensity Scope I/II 2.78 ton CO2e/kUEDC ten energy efficiency improvement projects are conducted every year. Particularly, the inbusiness portfolio. The Company will continue to examine possible risk and opportunity stallation of the waste heat recovery system factors from climate change and reflect the reGHG Emissions in 2016 on the PX production process and the reuse of sults in our midand long-term strategies and (Unit: thousand ton CO2e) waste heat generated from neighboring facmanagement activities. 7,596 tories enabled us to reduce 120 thousand and 140 thousand tons of GHG emissions, respectively. As a result, in 2016, S-OIL reduced 540 Case Study thousand tons of GHG emissions compared with 2011, and intensity GHG emissions also Entering the Cogeneration Business 3 10 decreased 14% from 2011. CO2 CH4 N 2O As a global corporate citizen, S-OIL is actively participating in the “Climate Participation in Public and Global Action,” one of the 17 SDGs officially Energy Consumption in 2016 Initiatives known as “Transforming Our World: the Scope I/II 2030 Agenda for Sustainable DevelopS-OIL makes a wide array of efforts to build ment,” which was adopted by the UN in a national consensus on addressing climate 2015. As part of its efforts for evolving change. As part of this, the Company obtained into the most competitive and admired 108,445 TJ the “Carbon Trust Standard,” a global carbon management certification, in 2012 for the first energy and chemical company in Asia Pacific, S-OIL entered the cogeneration time in Korea, and joined the Carbon Disclobusiness using waste steam to actively Intensity Scope I/II 39.6 MJ/kUEDC sure Project (CDP) to effectively respond to requirements on carbon emissions and reducsupport the Climate Action and at the same time create additional profits. In 2016, we started commercial operation tion performance. Furthermore, as a member Energy Usage in 2016 of a cogeneration plant that uses extra of the “Korea Business Council for Sustainable (Unit: TJ) steam (1.1 million Gcal per year) genDevelopment (KBCSD),” which was launched erated from our Onsan Refinery. This 85,422 to promote government-industry cooperation project is expected to reduce GHG by 61 on sustainable growth, we worked to encourthousand tons, supply 16.4MW of elecage businesses to take proactive measures tricity, which is enough energy to power 21,419 1,604 against climate change. In 2016, we initiated up more than five times the households 0.108 a cogeneration plant project in collaboration of Onsan-eup, and create KRW 9.1 billion ■ Fossil fuels with KD POWERTECH. This project is to generin profit per year. S-OIL will continue to ■ Electricity ate 16.4 MW of electricity by recycling waste strive to develop new business models ■ Steam / heating / cooling and other energy ■ Total renewable energy heat from the petrochemical process and to that can create profits as well as solve social issues. sell it to KEPCO, which contributes to reducing GHG by 61 thousand tons every year. In addition, we have implemented various campaigns aimed at raising consumers’ awareness of carbon reduction, which include Eco Campaign since 2012, Car Diet, and Stopping Engine Idling, etc. 62 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders O07 Social Contribution Activities Why is This Important? Companies are required to create new valand periodically evaluated to ensure sustainues for the community and fulfill their social ability. By doing so, social contribution will responsibility by conducting strategic social be promoted more systematically and attract contribution activities. Moreover, those should voluntary participation from all stakeholders. be guided by a clear set of business strategies Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Promotion of systematic social ㆍE xecution of social contribution ㆍE xecution of For Heroes, For ㆍExecution of social contribution contribution activities activities linked with strategic the Environment, For the Local activities linked with strategic directions Community, and For Needy People directions activities ㆍ‌Execution of social contribution ㆍE xecution of social contribution ㆍExecution of social contribution activities that include stakeholder activities that include stakeholder activities that include stakeholder opinions opinions opinions ㆍ‌Continuous improvement of social ㆍ‌Continuous improvement of social ㆍContinuous improvement of social contribution activities contribution activities contribution activities Our Response Strategic Direction of Our Social For Heroes (applicable to SDGs #3) Contribution The “For Heroes” program was prepared to support righteous people in our society: “Hero For more productive and strategic social conFirefighters” who commit themselves to saving tribution activities, S-OIL is proactive in unlives despite tough working conditions; “Hero derstanding expectations of local communiMaritime Policemen” who take the initiative in ties through diverse communication channels. marine environmental protection and sea-resAnd then, we conduct differentiated social cue operations; and “Hero Neighbors” who contribution activities in accordance with the throw themselves into helping neighbors in three pillars of Impact, Timing, and Benefidanger. This program helps make our society ciary under the vision statement of Sunshine healthy and bright. Sharing. Healing Camp for Firefighters Hero Neighbors of the Year Awards Ceremony S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 63 Sustainable & Profitable Growth Providing Learning Devices Tailored to Youths with Disabilities Helping Battered Female Migrants For the Environment For Local Communities (applicable to SDGs #14 and #15) (applicable to SDGs #3 and #4) Green Purchasing in 2016 S-OIL has engaged in protecting endangered The Company carries out a variety of social natural treasures since 2008 with the aim of contribution activities for co-prosperity with bequeathing our valuable nature and ecosyslocal communities where our worksites are KRW 16,158 millions tem to succeeding generations. Major activities are as follows: supporting professional located. Those include promoting the Culture & Arts Sharing Campaign, supporting needy organizations dedicated to protecting natural people who live around our terminals and the treasures; running natural treasure classes for TS&D Center, operating the GOODOIL Café, children; operating a university student natuestablishing the Ulsan Welfare Foundation, ral treasure protection corps; and sponsoring sponsoring cultural events at Taewharu in Ulnatural habitat protection activities carried san, and supporting welfare facilities in Ulsan. out by employees and customers. The Company is also expanding its green purchasing. For Needy People (applicable to SDGs #1 and #2) The “For Needy People” program aims to help the underprivileged stand their own feet and contribute to society as healthy citizens. Major activities include supporting heating fuels, providing learning devices tailored to youths with disabilities, helping battered female migrants, aiding in the recovery of fire-damaged low-income families, and supporting the participation of the disabled in an overseas marathon race as well as implementing service stations’ sharing campaign and sponsoring Ethiopian children. Activities for preventing endangered natural treasures 64 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders Sponsorship of Heart-Heart Orchestra Consisting of Youths with Developmental Disabilities Delivery of Coal Briquettes Activities of the S-OIL Public In addition to the four flagship activities, Continued Improvement through Service Corps in 2016 S-OIL has been executing a wide array of soAssessment cial contribution activities such as delivering Ttokguk (Korean rice soup), Songpyeon (rice S-OIL developed the Social Impact Index in 24,154 hours cakes), Kimchi, and coal briquettes to low-income families since the launch of the Sunshine collaboration with social contribution experts to assess the impact of its social contribution Sharing Public Service Corps in 2007. Our emprograms in 2014. The evaluation found the Performances in the Sunshine ployees also participate in the wage tail-cut “Culture & Arts Sharing Campaign,” in particSharing Campaign in 2016 contribution to help children suffering from ular, to be generating about KRW 24 million Wage tail-cut contribution biliary atresia and in the 1 person-1 donation worth of economic value for S-OIL and KRW 50 account campaign to support children raised million for the society for its role in boosting by grandparents. the culture industry. Building upon the areas KRW 104 millions Social Contribution Activities That to be improved, which were identified in the assessment of the “For Endangered Species” 1 person-1donation account Reflect Stakeholder Opinions in 2015, S-OIL has strived to keep on developing new social contribution activities aimed at S-OIL is proactive in developing distinctive soprotecting biodiversity. KRW 58 millions cial contribution programs such as a marketing idea contest that can attract stakeholders’ engagement, connect with our business, and Performances in Social Contribution have a positive effect on society. For example, Activities in 2016 the Company grants scholarships to college (Unit: KRW in millions) students majoring in engineering who should Others 1,166 be discharged from residential facilities due For Heroes 534 to age requirements. We intend to expand the For the Environment 290 scholarship program to help high school stuFor the Local dents who live in residential facilities acquire Community diverse licenses, thereby developing their 1,517 self-reliance even after being discharged from Sunshine Sharing Camp the facilities. For Needy People *‌More than 18,000 youths live in 700 residential care 3,145 facilities nationwide, of which about 1,000 persons are discharged from the facilities and just 25% enter KRW 6,652 millions universities. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 65 Sustainable & Profitable Growth O08 Contribution to Local Communities Why is This Important? Contributions to local communities in the asability. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct pects of economy, society, and the environsocial contribution activities that meet inment have played a critical role in ensuring creasing needs of local communities. healthy society as well as corporate sustainOur Commitment Commitment Targets in 2016 Performances in 2016 Targets in 2017 Contribution to local ㆍE xpansion of the base of local ㆍNo. of participants in the Culture ㆍ ‌Expansion of the base of local communities culture and arts & Arts Sharing campaign: 3,330 culture and arts persons ㆍHandling of grievances of local ㆍKRW 172.7 billion worth of purchasㆍHandling of grievances of local communities ing and recruitment of 87 persons communities in Ulsan Our Response Expansion of the Base for Local Supporting Cultural Activities of Local Culture and Arts Communities around the Head Office Since 2011, S-OIL has been promoting the CulS-OIL supports local cultural events as a way ture & Arts Sharing Campaign at its Head office to build a better quality of life including culin Mapo, Seoul. As part of this, diverse culture tural exposure to local communities and motiand arts events are held at the auditorium evvate artists. In recognition of its wide-ranging ery month, through which local residents enefforts to expand cultural infrastructure for joy high-quality culture and art performances local communities, S-OIL was awarded the for free. More than 3,000 local people join the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism Prize campaign every year. In a survey of local peoin 2015. ple who participated in the campaign, they attend two cultural events on average every year, which attests to the fact that S-OIL is contributing to the growth of culture and arts for local communities. Participants in the Culture & Arts Sharing Campaign in 2016 3,330 participants Culture & Arts Sharing Campaign 66 Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders Support of Cultural Infrastructure Efforts for Handling Grievances of in Ulsan Local Communities Local Purchasing in Ulsan in 2016 Our activities for expanding the base of culture and arts have been active in Ulsan as well. S-OIL has been expanding local purchasing to KRW S-OIL established one of Korea’s most prestisupport economic stimulation of Ulsan. Pargious literary awards, the “Oh Young-soo Lit172,746 millions *‌25% of total amount KRW 682,379 millions erary Prize,” in 1993 in honor of the talented ticularly, in order to help local farmers who are suffering from the opening of the agricultural short story writer from the region. Additionalmarket, we purchase rice and pear produced (Excluding the purchasing of crude oil, products, and the RUC/ODC Project) ly, S-OIL has been holding the “Beautiful Eye in local communities around our refinery and Art Festival” since 1996, an arts event that donate them to social contribution activities. mainly invites amateur artists. Furthermore, Moreover, we have employed local talent necEmployment in Ulsan S-OIL donated KRW 10 billion, the total budget essary for the RUC/ODC Project, contributing (Unit: No. of persons) required for the Taewharu Restoration Projto the increase of local job creation. Another ect, boosting the pride of Ulsan citizens while major activities aimed at solving local issues 2016 2014 2015 giving them access to a comfortable public include donations of funds for school devel25 19 87 rest area. This project was completed in 2014 and since then, we have supported culture opment, scholarships, and books to elementary, middle, and high schools in Ulsan. We *29.7% of total new employees 293 persons and arts events held at Taewharu. We have also opened the GOODOIL drinking fountain also sponsored the “Taewharu Culture and in front of our head office in Seoul, our ofArts Academy” where local people can take fice building in Ulsan, and also our Gangnam culture classes provided by renowned local branch where anyone can enjoy natural water artists since 2015. Other events supported by and tea for free. The Company will continue to us include the Cheoyong Cultural Festival, the take the lead in solving local grievances and Ulsan Whale Festival, Byeongyeong Seonang pursuing co-prosperity. Chigi Folk Festival, and Onggi Expo Ulsan Korea. GOODOIL Drinking Fountain Oh Young-soo Literary Prize S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 67 Performance Review Business Fundamental 70 O Performance p. p. 74 Review C p. 71 E p. 72 Key Sustainability Management Performances S-OIL is committed to creating stakeholder value through sustainable growth, contributing to the happiness of mankind as well as the development of society and economy. To this end, we dedicate not only to promoting bold innovation in entire business areas for enhancing our quality competitiveness and brand value but also to practicing shared growth with business partners and local communities based on the management philosophy centered on co-prosperity, fulfilling our responsibility as a corporate citizen. 68 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 69 Performance Review Key Sustainability Management Performances Business Fundamental Corporate (Korea Corporate Education on Ethics Management for (Unit: times, Governance Rating Governance Service) Business Partners and Subsidiaries companies, persons) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Corporate No. of trainings 5 4 5 4 A A+ A A+ Governance Rating No. of participating 307 255 1 413 companies No. of participants 362 282 137 510 Ratio of Outside Directors (Unit: persons) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Self-assessment on Directors 11 11 11 11 Ethics Management (Unit: persons, points) 6 6 6 6 Outside directors (54.5%) (54.5%) (54.5%) (54.5%) Classification 2015 2016 2017 2,423 2,492 2,729 No. of participants (86%) (86%) (86%) Violations of the Improper Average score 98.8 99.0 99.1 Solicitation and Graft Act (Unit: cases) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Spending in Business Association (Unit: KRW in millions) No. of violations 0 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Business association 1,404 1,557 1,481 1,558 Violations of Internal Regulations Spending (Monitoring of the Compliance with Regulations) (Unit: cases) *‌Top five business associations with large spending: Korea Petroleum Association (KRW 1,256 million), Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ulsan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KRW 120 million), No. of violations 0 1 0 0 Onsan Industrial Complex Association (KRW 84 million), Korea Employers’ Federation (KRW 32 million) Korea Lubricating Oil Industries Association (KRW 18 million) Deliberation of the Ethics Committee (Unit: times, cases) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of the Ethics 31 19 19 27 Committee meetings Operation of 25 26 57 17 sales network Purchasing Delibof goods and 38 24 25 52 eration services Others 0 3 5 7 Total 63 53 87 76 No. of violations of 0 0 2 1 ethics regulations *Disciplinary in 2016 : a money transaction between a employee and a customer Ethics Training for Employees (Unit: cases, times, persons, hours) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of training 10 8 7 7 programs No. of trainings 34 15 17 12 No. of participants 3,156 2,973 3,063 3,643 Hour spent on 3,291 4,119 4,470 4,711 training 70 C01 C02 Sales Performance (Unit: KRW in millions) Environmental Quality Evaluation on Automotive Fuel Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Domestic 10,260,026 9,210,616 6,230,800 5,931,772 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fuel Classification Export 15,248,569 13,869,523 7,823,408 6,532,451 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H products Sub-total 25,508,595 23,080,139 14,054,208 12,464,223 Gasoline ★4 ★4 ★4 ★4 ★5 ★5 ★5 ★5 Domestic 429,006 452,299 320,453 264,450 Diesel ★5 ★5 ★5 ★5 ★5 ★5 ★5 ★5 Lube Export 1,322,609 1,519,260 1,019,309 1,049,213 *‌Environmental Quality Rating System for Vehicle Fuel: The Ministry of products Sub-total 1,751,615 1,971,559 1,339,762 1,313,663 Environment has been evaluating ratings of vehicle fuels since the second half of 2006 by taking gasoline and diesel samples from terminals and PetroDomestic 1,605,796 1,335,609 958,467 888,054 service stations of each refinery which are located in the metropolitan chemical Export 2,292,522 2,170,255 1,537,835 1,655,903 area and commissioning the Korea Institute of Petroleum Management products Sub-total 3,898,318 3,505,864 2,496,302 2,543,957 for test (the highest rating: ★5) 12,294,828 10,998,524 7,509,720 7,084,276 Domestic (39.5%) (38.5%) (42.0%) (43.4%) Total 18,863,700 17,559,038 10,380,552 9,237,567 Inspection on Product Quality and Export Facilities of Service Stations & LPG (60.5%) (61.5%) (58.0%) (56.6%) Filling Stations (Unit: stations) Sub-total 31,158,528 28,557,562 17,890,272 16,321,843 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Inspection on quality 10,820 10,666 12,502 14,461 Market Share for Retail Light Oil Product (Unit: stations) Inspection on facility 1,311 1,161 1,612 2,088 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of nationwide 12,658 12,366 12,061 11,923 service stations Trustworthy Service Stations (Unit: stations) No. of S-OIL service 2,000 2,022 2,070 2,124 stations (15.8%) (16.4%) (17.2%) (17.8%) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Market share for S-OIL service stations 2,000 2,022 2,070 2,124 20.4% 20.7% 21.1% 21.8% retail light oil product Trustworthy service 1,353 1,314 1,257 1,552 *‌Based on service stations in business (estimated by S-OIL) stations (68%) (65%) (61%) (73%) VOC Treatment (Unit: cases) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Bonus/associated card 1,148 1,370 964 1,289 C03 Promotion/gift card 415 2,610 467 450 Service/transportation, etc. 689 660 769 991 Top of Mind Awareness in TV Advertising (Unit: %) Quality 257 196 178 244 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total 2,509 4,836 2,378 2,974 S-OIL 64.4 51.2 62.9 60.3 *‌Number of VOCs in 2014 increased due to gift offering events. Average of domestic 7.0 8.7 6.1 6.1 competitors Time Spent on Treating VOCs (Unit: days) *‌Based on tracking check result of advertising impact by professional research institutions Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Inquiry 0.6 0.8 0.7 0.7 (designated period: 2 days) Complaints 2.6 3.7 2.9 2.4 (designated period: 5 days) Rate of treating VOC C04 100% 100% 100% 100% within designated period Violation of the Fair Trade Law (Unit: cases) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) (Unit: points) No. of violations 0 0 0 0 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 S-OIL 73 72 74 74 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 71 Performance Review E01 Employment Status (Unit: persons) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Officers 43 39 37 40 Regular employees 1,239 1,255 1,340 1,368 Administrative staff Non-regular employees 73 88 61 55 Sub-total 1,312 1,343 1,401 1,423 Regular employees 1,374 1,396 1,418 1,450 Production staff Non-regular employees 63 57 46 215 Sub-total 1,437 1,453 1,464 1,665 Total 2,792 2,835 2,902 3,128 Employment by Age and Gender (Unit: persons) Classification Age Gender 2013 2014 2015 2016 Male 14 7 4 3 30~50 Female 0 0 0 0 Officers Male 29 32 33 37 50 or above Female 0 0 0 0 Male 430 403 416 550 Under 30 Female 70 72 80 74 Male 1,849 1,874 1,830 1,793 Employees 30-50 Female 137 146 147 153 Male 259 297 387 510 50 or above Female 4 4 5 8 Male 2,581 2,613 2,670 2,893 211 222 232 235 Female (7.6%) (7.8%) (8.0%) (7.5%) No. of male managers (manager or higher levels) 658 686 733 783 No. of female managers (manager or higher levels) 18 26 27 38 *Ratio of employees aged 55 or above in 2016: 4.4% (138 out of 3,128 persons) *No. of employees aged under 20: None *Revised the status of employment calculated by more than 50 years old at 2015 Report to 50 years old and over at this Report Employment by Workplace in 2016 (Unit: persons) Retirees (Unit: persons) Classification Officers Employees Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Head office 28 724 No. of retirees 79 82 82 67 Refinery 11 2,021 District Business HQ 1 264 Terminal 0 79 Employment of the Disabled (Unit: persons) Total 40 3,088 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of employees 49 49 47 48 with disabilities (1.8%) (1.7%) (1.6%) (1.5%) New Employment (Unit: persons) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Return to Work after Parental Leave (Unit: persons) University graduates 80 (8) 42 (5) 83 (8) 31 (3) (female) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Others (female) 78 (16) 83 (23) 66 (24) 262 (18) Staff to return 3 7 10 13 Total 158 (24) 125 (28) 149 (32) 293 (21) 3 7 10 13 Ratio of female Returned staff 15.2% 22.4% 21.5% 7.2% (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) employees *‌All forms of recruitment such as production workers, experienced workers, and non-regular workers excluding university graduates 72 E02 Number of Injured Employees and Occupational Injury Rate (Unit: persons, %) Training Cost (Unit: %) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of injured 2 0 1 4 Training Cost S-OIL employees compared with Labor 1.4 0.85 0.85 0.95 Injury rate Cost 0.10/0.15 0.00/0.11 0.05/0.10 0.19/0.28 (LTIR/TRIR) No. of injured 4 0 1 1 Business Training Hours per Employee (Unit: hours) employees partners Injury rate Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 0.17/0.22 0.00/0.00 0.09/0.09 0.03/0.07 (LTIR/TRIR) Administrative staff *‌Injury rate = No. of injured employees x 200,000/Total working hours (Excluding team 52 42 45 55 *‌LTIR (Lost-time Injury Rate) means lost-time injuries while the meaning of leaders) TRIR (Total Recordable Injury Rate) extends to minor accidents without Production staff 13 21 22 21 lost-time injuries. Occupational Illness (Unit: persons, cases) E03 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of 0 0 0 0 incidents Welfare Benefit (Unit: %) No. of S-OIL incidents Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 0 0 per million Welfare Benefit hours compared with Labor 38.3 26.3 61.6 62.3 No. of 0 0 0 0 Cost incidents Business No. of partners incidents 0 0 0 0 per million Satisfaction with General Affair Service (Unit: points) hours Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Satisfaction score 8.89 8.98 8.83 8.71 (target: 8.7 points) Process Safety Events (Unit: cases) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Process safety events Labor Union (Unit: persons, cases) 0.93 0.16 0.35 0.60 per million hours Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of union 1,431 1,448 1,455 1,519 members (52.1%) (51.8%) (50.8%) (49.2%) Safety Accident (Unit: cases) No. of employees Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 covered by 2,749 2,796 2,865 3,088 collective bargaining (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) No. of fire accidents 1 0 1 1 agreements No. of accidents from 0 0 0 0 violations of regulations No. of labor disputes 0 0 0 0 Safety Training (Unit: times, persons) E04 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of 281 535 560 749 trainings DNV Safety Culture Evaluation (Unit: points) S-OIL No. of 23,148 30,186 31,640 37,447 participants Classification 2014 2015 2016 No. of DNV safety culture score 6.8 7.4 7.9 *‌외부 위탁교육 및 소방훈련을 포함함.341 trainings 335 379 580 Business *‌An index to evaluate the level of corporate safety culture in a quantitative partners No. of manner created by DNV GL (0~10 points. World Class: over 8.1 points, 18,371 9,044 19,168 21,230 participants Leading Edge: 6~8 points) *‌Including commissioned trainings and firefighting drills S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 73 Performance Review O01 O03 Progress of the RUC/ODC Project (Unit: %) Summarized Financial Positions (Unit: KRW in millions) Classification 2015 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Rate of progress Current assets 7,911,340 5,706,292 5,688,480 7,973,051 6 (5) 35 (31) (92) (100) (target) Non-current assets 4,003,595 4,543,122 5,096,466 5,977,625 Detailed design 25 (21) 90 (84) (100) Total assets 11,914,935 10,249,414 10,784,946 13,950,676 Civil engineering 1 (1) 53 (47) (93) (100) Current liabilities 5,884,823 3,955,145 3,222,157 4,832,781 Steel-frame work 19 (12) (96) (100) Non-current liabilities 680,507 1,390,052 2,180,898 2,732,648 Plumbing 8 (5) (92) (100) Total liabilities 6,565,330 5,345,197 5,403,055 7,565,429 Equipment Capital stock 291,512 291,512 291,512 291,512 1 (0) (91) (100) installation Capital surplus 379,190 379,190 379,190 379,190 Reserves 1,002,488 977,843 977,959 977,313 Treasury stocks (1,876) (1,876) (1,876) (1,876) Retained earnings 3,678,291 3,257,548 3,735,106 4,739,108 Total equity 5,349,605 4,904,217 5,381,891 6,385,247 Total liabilities and 11,914,935 10,249,414 10,784,946 13,950,676 equity *‌Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with O02 K-IFRS Treatment of Crude Oil (Unit: thousand barrels) Summarized Income Statement (Unit: KRW in millions) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Treatment of crude Revenue 31,158,528 28,557,562 17,890,272 16,321,843 216,246 227,462 219,680 231,185 oil Cost of sales (30,229,317) (28,282,216) (16,438,773) (14,020,892) Gross profit 929,211 275,346 1,451,499 2,300,951 Selling expenses (475,847) (479,102) (532,845) (576,645) Production (Unit: thousand barrels, KRW in millions) Administrative (87,320) (85,948) (101,050) (107,417) expenses Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Operating profit (loss) 366,044 (289,704) 817,604 1,616,889 Fuel Volume 187,764 193,679 185,601 199,631 products Other income 517,835 480,780 491,316 495,344 Amount 24,924,075 23,932,890 13,029,020 10,862,778 Other expenses (537,965) (468,024) (392,871) (475,037) Lube Volume 10,907 13,236 11,810 13,576 products Financial income 290,879 220,230 145,960 184,999 Amount 1,623,722 1,785,243 921,272 870,560 Financial expenses (250,001) (329,258) (253,480) (244,830) PetroVolume 23,587 25,960 25,693 21,298 chemical Profit before 386,792 (385,976) 808,529 1,577,365 products Amount 4,239,157 3,964,906 2,455,129 2,321,020 income tax Volume 222,258 232,875 223,104 234,505 Corporate tax Total (97,486) 97,811 (180,393) (370,282) expense (gain) Amount 30,786,954 29,683,039 16,405,421 14,054,358 Net profit (loss) 289,306 (288,165) 628,136 1,207,083 Other comprehensive (3,082) (37,214) (22,303) 5,926 income Profit Improvement (Unit: KRW in billions) Total comprehensive 286,224 (325,379) 605,833 1,213,009 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 income Profit improvement 104.2 358.0 190.0 190.5 *‌Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS Estimated Profit Improvement by Payout of Dividends Employee Suggestion Program (Unit: KRW in billions) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total dividends paid Estimated profit 154,935 17,559 279,505 721,904 8.3 17.4 16.5 4.5 (KRW in millions) improvement Cash dividend 53.55 44.50 59.81 propensity(%) Cash Common 1,330 150 2,400 6,200 dividends per share Preferred 1,335 175 2,425 6,225 (KRW) Cash Common 1.81 0.30 2.97 7.31 dividend yield(%) Preferred 2.52 0.55 5.09 10.88 *‌Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with 74 K-IFRS Major Financial Indicators (Unit : %, multiples) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Current ratio 134.44 144.28 176.54 164.98 Total liabilities to equity ratio 122.73 108.99 100.39 118.48 Stability Borrowings to total assets 26.91 35.49 33.34 33.76 Times interest earned 6.83 (6.79) 22.82 28.72 Current ratio 1.17 (1.01) 4.57 9.91 Total liabilities to equity ratio 0.93 (1.01) 3.51 7.4 Profitability Borrowings to total assets 5.40 (5.62) 12.21 20.52 Times interest earned 6.50 8.51 24.59 13.84 Current ratio (10.27) (8.35) (37.35) (8.77) Growth and Total liabilities to equity ratio (53.18) (179.14) 382.22 297.76 Activity Borrowings to total assets (50.12) (199.61) 317.98 292.17 Times interest earned (4.62) (13.98) 5.23 29.35 *Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS Creation of Economic Value (Unit: KRW in billions) Violation of Disclosure Regulations (Unit: cases) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Revenue 31,158.5 28,557.6 17,890.3 16,321.8 No. of violations 0 0 0 0 Cost of sales (30,085.0) (28,197.8) (16,361.0) (13,921.3) Other income 808.7 701.0 637.3 680.3 Other expenses (723.5) (746.2) (605.5) (640.8) Depreciation cost (367.8) (339.7) (273.2) (286.7) Created economic 790.9 (25.1) 1,287.9 2,153.4 value O04 *‌Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS Procurement in 2016 Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW in billions) By Product (Unit: KRW in billions, suppliers) Stakeholder Item 2013 2014 2015 2016 ClassifiCrude oil/ ConstrucGeneral Materials Total Salary and cation oil products tion/ mainservice Employees 325.1 294.9 421.8 478.9 tenance pension Government Tax and dues 112.0 (83.0) 197.2 388.3 Procurement 13,027.5 1,320.5 137.1 1,555.8 16,040.9 Social amount Local comcontribution 10.8 8.5 5.1 22.8 munities *‌There is a different between above data and the purchasing amount at 10 expenditure* page which is the cost of sales in the financial statements. Creditors Interest costs 53.6 42.6 35.8 56.3 ShareDividend, By Region (Unit: KRW in billions, suppliers) holders, 289.3 (288.2) 628.1 1,207.1 reserves company Region Procurement amount No. of suppliers Distributed economic Korea 2,709.1 1,279 790.9 (25.1) 1,287.9 2,153.4 value Asia 124.0 65 *‌Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with Middle East 0.1 4 K-IFRS Europe 101.5 56 *Including only donations on the financial statements Americas 74.1 50 Others 4.6 4 S-OIL’s Credit Ratings Total 3,013.5 1,458 *Excluding crude oil/oil products Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Moody’s Baa2 Baa2 Baa2 Baa2 Overseas S&P BBB BBB BBB BBB Korea Ratings AA+ AA+ AA+ AA+ NICE Investors AA+ AA+ AA+ AA+ Domestic Service Korea Investors AA+ AA+ AA+ AA+ Service S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 75 Performance Review O05 Environmental Performance Evaluation (Unit: points) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Evaluation score 100.0 113.8 *‌We redefined 2015 as the base year by adopting the ISO 14001:2015 certification and tightening environmental regulations as well as adjusting certain indices. *‌Environmental performance evaluation score: 134.4 points in 2013, 135.1 points in 2014, 154.5 points in 2015 Environmental Accounting (Unit: KRW in billions) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Note Post-treatment facility operation costs, Environmental cost 164.5 156.5 154.9 151.5 etc. Energy saving amount / Revenue from Environmental benefits 133.0 125.7 119.8 64.4 selling by products Environmental investments 40.7 5.7 12.9 16.1 Investments in environmental facilities Detailed Environmental Investments (Unit: KRW in millions) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Note HAPs dual seal, sampling system Air quality, stench, HAPs 5,565 678 4,421 7,193 improvement, introduction of digital TMS Water quality 3,559 1,413 1,020 1,045 B/D system improvement Support for energy saving 31,239 3,347 7,401 1,386 Installment of heat changers technology Concrete paving for preventing soil Soil/others 359 293 38 6,524 pollution SHE system upgrade Total 40,722 5,731 12,880 16,148 Air Pollutant Emissions Intensity at Onsan Refinery Water Pollutant Emissions Intensity at Onsan Refinery ClassifiLegal 2013 2014 2015 2016 ClassifiLegal 2013 2014 2015 2016 cation standards cation standards SOx 180ppm 62.3 76.8 82.0 86.9 BOD 10 ppm 4.0 4.2 3.7 3.8 NOx 150ppm 83.3 83.9 83.0 82.6 COD 40 ppm 8.5 9.8 8.1 8.0 Dust 30mg/S㎥ 2.6 2.5 2.6 2.9 SS 10 ppm 2.6 3.0 3.0 2.6 *‌Annual average pollution concentration from TMS heaters and boilers of *‌Water quality data and TMS data were used for calculating BOD and COD, existing and new facilities respectively. Air Pollutant Emissions at Wastewater Generation at Onsan Refinery (Unit: tons, tons/mUEDC*) Onsan Refinery (Unit: thousand tons) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 SOx 3,450 4,315 4,273 4,959 Wastewater 9,128 9,598 9,371 9,584 NOx 3,574 3,509 3,354 3,518 generation Dust 82 79 66 71 Density of SOx 1.36 1.62 1.65 1.81 emissions Density of NOx 1.41 1.32 1.29 1.28 emissions Density of Dust 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 emissions *‌UEDC: An indicator developed by Solomon, a world’s renowned oil company evaluation agency, with the aim of objectively evaluate production capacity of each oil company. This shows total production capacity calculated by considering process complexity and operational performance compared with the crude distillation unit (CDU) of each oil company. 76 Recycled and Reused Water (Unit: thousand tons) O06 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 GHG Emissions (Unit: thousand ton CO2e) Water supply 20,248 20,518 20,322 20,688 1,775 1,759 1,658 1,885 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Reused water(%) (8.8) (8.6) (8.2) (9.1) Scope I 6,399 6,406 6,380 6,537 *‌‌Water recycling and ensuing effect: Sour water with H2S and NH3 Scope II 894 996 986 1,072 generated from production process is flowed into strippers and then it 7,402 7,366 7,609 is reused for desalters of the CDU process after eliminating salts by LP Total1) 7,293 (7,433) (7,396) (7,641) stream, which help reduce water consumption. Intensity Scope I/II 2.88 2.78 2.84 2.78 (ton CO2e/kUEDC2)) Scope III3) 23 24 26 28 Detailed Water Consumption at 1) ‌Figures in parenthesis mean emissions that include additional items in Onsan Refinery (Unit: thousand tons) accordance with the amendment of the Target Management Scheme in 2014.. 2) UEDC: ‌ An indicator developed by Solomon, a world’s renowned oil company Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 evaluation agency, with the aim of objectively evaluate production capacity of each oil company. This shows total production capacity calculated by Municipal water 20,248 20,518 20,322 20,688 considering process complexity and operational performance compared with supplies the crude distillation unit (CDU) of each oil company. Fresh surface water 3) Scope III includes only vehicles in the downstream business. 0 0 0 0 (lakes, rivers, etc.) Fresh ground water 0 0 0 0 Detailed GHG Emissions Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Waste Generation and Recycling at CO2 (thousand ton) 7,282 7,391 7,355 7,596 Onsan Refinery (Unit: tons) CH4 (ton) 134 140 139 156 N2O (ton) 25 27 27 31 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Generation of 11,972 10,966 10,555 8,859 designated waste Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Generation of general CO2 (thousand ton CO2e) 7,282 7,391 7,355 7,596 14,692 14,172 18,508 17,515 waste CH4 (thousand ton CO2e) 3 3 3 3 Total 26,664 25,138 29,063 26,374 N2O (thousand ton CO2e) 8 8 8 10 Recycling of Total 7,293 7,402 7,366 7,609 6,656 7,129 7,985 6,166 designated waste Recycling of general 8,316 9,366 11,842 8,564 waste Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ) Total 14,972 16,495 19,827 14,730 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Scope I 79,329 75,240 79,673 85,422 Scope II 19,634 21,745 21,816 23,024 Emissions of Hazardous Total 98,963 96,985 101,489 108,445 Chemical Substances (Unit: tons) Intensity Scope I/II 39.1 36.3 39.2 39.6 (MJ/kUEDC*) Classification 2013 2014 2015 Scope III 332 336 370 378 S-OIL 119 97 116.4 *‌UEDC: An indicator developed by Solomon, a world’s renowned oil company Average of domestic evaluation agency, with the aim of objectively evaluate production capacity 288 279 competitors of each oil company. This shows total production capacity calculated by considering process complexity and operational performance compared *‌Data for 2015 may be changed according to the inspection result of the with the crude distillation unit (CDU) of each oil company. Ministry of Environment. Detailed Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ) Oil Spill (Unit: cases) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fossil fuels 79,329 75,240 79,673 85,422 No. of oil spill 0 1 0 0 Electricity 18,353 19,953 19,297 21,419 accidents Steam / heating / *‌A leakage occurred within artificial barricades due to the chip off of cooling and other 1,281 1,792 2,519 1,604 mixer on the underpart of crude oil tanker (There were no environmental energy pollution and no administrative punishment in regard to this.) Total renewable 0.108 0.108 0.108 0.108 energy Sales of Energy (Unit: TJ) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Steam 1,356 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 77 Performance Review O07 O08 Performance in Social Contribution Participants in the Culture & Art Activities (Unit: KRW in millions) Sharing Campaign (Unit: times, persons) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 For Heroes 1,130 846 1,130 534 No. of events 13 10 11 12 For the Environment 310 170 290 290 No. of participants 5,330 4,920 3,390 3,330 For Local Community 8,053 5,278 1,829 1,517 For Needy People 724 1,255 3,145 Others 2,765 2,651 1,773 1,166 Employment in Ulsan (Unit: persons) Total 12,258 9,669 6,277 6,652 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 *‌Others: ‌Supports for S-OIL Science Prodigy and Culture Foundation, New employment 158 125 149 293 S-OIL Table Tennis Team, Sochi Olympics/Rio Paralympics Squad *Donations stated in the business report do not include those to S-OIL New employees grad10 25 19 87 Table Tennis Team and GOODOIL Café uated universities in (6.3%) (20.0%) (12.8%) (29.7%) *Moved the Performance of Public Service Corps at 2015 Report from Ulsan ‌Others item to For Local Community item at this Report Local Purchasing in Ulsan (Unit: cases, KRW in millions) Activities of S-OIL Public Service Corps (Unit: persons, hours) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of 8,643 7,073 9,127 8,492 Number of purchasing 2,294 2,313 2,194 2,129 participants Total amount of 521,289 593,742 835,300 682,379 Participation hours 29,877 28,195 22,947 24,154 purchasing Number of 4,459 3,755 5,100 4,934 purchasing in Ulsan Sunshine Sharing Campaign (Unit: persons, KRW in millions) Amount of 187,881 93,080 203,402 172,746 purchasing in Ulsan (36%) (16%) (24%) (25%) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 *Excluding crude oil/oil products and purchasing for the RUC/ODC project Number of Wage tailpartici1,593 1,642 1,669 1,769 cut contripants bution Amount of 100 95 98 104 supports Number of 1 personpartici1,483 1,428 1,391 1,385 1donation pants account Amount of 61 61 57 58 supports Green Purchasing (Unit: cases, KRW in millions) Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. of green 66 46 59 128 purchasing products Amount of green 40,783 5,741 12,890 16,158 purchasing 78 Appendix Appendix Independent Assurance Statement p. 80 GRI G4 Index / UNGC Index p. 82 Accolades & Recognitions / Association Memberships p. 88 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 79 Appendix Independent Assurance Statement To the stakeholders of S-OIL Corporation Findings & Conclusion The Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) was asked by S-OIL CorThe Assurer verified that the Report accurately and fairly illustrates poration to provide independent assurance of the “S-OIL Corporation S-OIL Corporation’s sustainability management activity and perfor2016 Sustainability Report” (the “Report”) and hereby provides the folmance. Moreover, through the assurance, the Assurer verified that lowing assurance statement. S-OIL Corporation’s Report fulfilled the requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines’ Comprehensive Option. Responsibility and Independence In the case of General Standard Disclosures, the Assurer verified that S-OIL Corporation is entirely responsible for all information and opinthe Report is written in compliance with the requirements of the Comions presented in this Report. The Assurer is solely responsible for the prehensive Option. For the Specific Standard Disclosures, the Assurer assurance statement on the content of the Report. As an independent reviewed the Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) and indicaassurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the process of tors about material issues by using the reporting criteria process bepreparing this Report nor in any conflicts of interest that may underlow. mine our independence. Material Issue Material Aspect DMA & Indicators Assurance Standards Realization of Customer DMA – Realization of Customer Product and Service Labeling The Assurer performed assurance in accordance with Type 2 defined Satisfaction Satisfaction PR3, PR4, PR5 Product Quality Assurance in DMA – Product Quality in ISAE 3000 and AA1000AS (2008). It indicates that the Report was the Distribution Stage Assurance comprehensively reviewed in terms of the effectiveness and reliability Implementation of Fair Marketing Communication DMA – Product Quality Marketing Activities Assurance PR6, PR7 of reporting standards in the assurance. The assurance standards are DMA – Product Quality Reinforcement of R&D based on the risk reduction with limitations defined in ISAE 3000 and Assurance Reinforcement of DMA – Product Quality correspond to the moderate level of assurance defined in AA1000AS Marketing Activities Marketing Communication Assurance PR6, PR7 (2008). Reinforcement of Customer Customer Personal DMA – Protection of Customers’ Personal Information / Fair Personal Information Information Competition in the Market PR8 Limitations Prevention of Anticompetitive DMA – Protection of CustomAnti-competitive behavior ers’ Personal Information / Fair behavior The Assurer identified the reliability of performance in the Report Competition in the Market SO7 DMA – HR Management / Fair based on the above-mentioned assurance scope and standards as HR Management Employment Evaluation & Compensation follows. The on-site inspection was conducted for Seoul headquarLA1, LA2, LA3 Education and Training, ters and Onsan Plant. Financial data was verified through the financial Fair Evaluation Diversity and Prohibition of DMA – HR Management / Fair Evaluation & Reward statement and disclosed documents audited by an auditing agency. and Reward Discrimination, Prohibition of LA9, LA10, LA11, LA12, HR3 Discrimination The environmental and social performance data secured reliability DMA – Talent Cultivation HR Cultivation Education and Training suitable for assurance standards (Type 2, Moderate Level) through the LA9, LA10, LA11 DMA – Healthy Corporate verification process by sampling. Sound LaborFreedom of Association Right Culture / Establishment of HarManagement Culture to Collective Bargaining monized Labor-Management Relations HR4 Methodology DMA – Healthy Corporate Establishment of Harmonious Freedom of Association Right Culture / Establishment of HarThe following method was used to provide the assurance about the LaborManagement Relations to Collective Bargaining monized Labor-Management Report: Relations HR4 Occupational Health & Safety, DMA – Industrial Safety & Occupational Health & Safety Asset Preservation ManageHealth Management LA5, LA6, • ‌Verified whether requirements from the Core Option of the GRI G4 Management ment and Process Safety LA7, LA8, OG13 Guidelines were fulfilled. Investment in New Business DMA Investment in New Projects • ‌Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and Improvement of Efficiency DMA Improvement of Operational Efficiency quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. DMA – Establishment of Financial Soundness / Transparent • ‌Verified the suitability of the information and expression errors Securing Financial Soundness Management Information through a comparison analysis with other publications. Disclosure DMA Establishment of Finan• ‌Verified the evidence of data and information, internal process, and Disclosure of Transparent cial Soundness / Transparent Management Information Management Information system through an on-site inspection of the Seoul headquarters and Disclosure Onsan Plant. Evaluation of Supply Chain DMA – Management of Management of Supply Chain Sustainability in Supply Chain (Society, Labor, Human • ‌The scope and boundaries of the assurance process have been conSustainability Rights, Environment) EN32, EN33, LA14, LA15, HR10, HR11, SO9, SO10 ducted according to the boundaries of the time period, region, and DMA – Management of value chain of the Report. Therefore, the scope of the assurance proEvaluation of Supply Chain Sustainability in Supply Chain Fair Selection of Suppliers (Society, Labor, Human cess meets 100 percent coverage of the non-consolidated revenue of Rights, Environment) EN32, EN33, LA14, LA15, HR10, HR11, SO9, SO10 the company. Unless there are any special remarks, data regarding Reinforcement of EnvironmenDMA Environment the supply chain has not been included in the scope of assurance. tal Management System Management 80 Material Issue Material Aspect DMA & Indicators Recommendations DMA – Environment Upon appraising S-OIL Corporation’s various efforts and performance Management of Air Pollutants Emission Management EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21 for enhancing its sustainability, the Assurer makes the following proEnergy, Water, Effluent and DMA – Environment Manageposals for future publications of the Report and a higher standard of ment EN3, EN4, EN5, OG2, Effect on Environment Waste, Compliance of EnvironOG3, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, sustainability. mental Regulations, Overall EN10, EN22, EN23, EN24, EN25, Environment-Related Issues EN26, EN29, EN31 • ‌Review for UN SDGs: It is recommended to review the connection of Economic Effect of Climate DMA – Response to Climate Change Economic Performance Change EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4 sustainability activities by S-OIL Corporation with sustainable develIndirect Economic Effect, DMA – Social Contribution opments goals (SDGs) presented by UN. With this connection, a clear Social Contribution Activities Activities EC7, EC8, SO1, SO2, Local Communities OG10, OG11 goal for positive effect of S-OIL’s sustainability management on sociEvaluation of the Effect of a Local Communities DMA – Contribution to Local ety will be established. Plant on Local Communities Communities SO1, SO2 Economic Development of DMA – Contribution to Local • ‌Establishment of a long-term goal for major issues by each C.E.O.: Market Status Local Communities Communities EC5, EC6 S-OIL Corporation has appropriately reported sustainability manageEnvironmental Grievances Handling Grievances in Handling System, Grievances DMA – Contribution to Local ment activities by displaying targets and performance in the reportLocal Communities Handling System for Social Communities EN34, SO11 ing period and goals for the next year through the Report. To show Effects such efforts more proactively, it is required to set a long-term goal and report the progress to accomplish this target. A long-term goal for the Inclusivity: Participation of Stakeholders next three to five years will help stakeholders to understand the direcThe principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should intion of sustainability management by S-OIL Corporation. clude stakeholders in the process of developing strategic responses to and achieving sustainability. In this regard, S-OIL Corporation defines major stakeholders as C.E.O. (Customers, Employees, Owners and other stakeholders) and clearly classifies expectations of stakeholders and communication channels. We verified that opinions have been reflected in management policy through this process. Especially, the company performs the participation process of selecting issues having June 2017 an effect on S-OIL and stakeholders by conducting an annual survey. CEO Sun-jick Hong Materiality: Significant Issue Identification and Reporting The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus Dong-soo Kim, Director on issues relevant and material to both the organization and its major stakeholders. The Assurer found that S-OIL Corporation successfully Yang-ho Lee, Team Manager identified issues relevant and material to the company and its major stakeholders based on a reasonable materiality analysis process. Especially, the company selected major issues by reflecting opinions from Dae-kwon Yang, Senior Fellow the top management through the effectiveness review process. This shows the company’s efforts to adopt sustainability management as a company-wide management issue. Jeong-eun Han, Researcher Responsiveness: Response to Issues The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should be responsive to issues that may influence the performance of their The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility [the organization that established AA1000, the interstakeholders. The Assurer found that S-OIL Corporation successfully national standard for stakeholder participation and verification] and is qualified to conduct identified issues which may impact stakeholders’ performance, impleindependence assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee consists of competent experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance mented measures to address them, and adequately presented relevant and have completed the relevant training. information in the Report. In particular, the appropriately presents the current performance and future target for each issue and responds to 〮 AA1000AS ‌ (2008): The AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is an international assurance standard, set by AccountAbility, that provides the method of reporting sustainability managethose issues. S-OIL Corporation faithfully discloses its response activment issues by evaluating the organization management on performances, compliance with ities and performance through the Report for key sustainability manprinciples, and reliability of performance information. agement issues. 〮 ‌AA1000APS (2008): The AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) is an international assurance standard set by AccountAbility that provides the principles of the AA1000 standards. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 81 Appendix GRI G4 Index General Standard Disclosure ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Reported Report External G4 Indicator Note page coverage assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to 3 ● 80-81 the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6-9 ● Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization cover ● 80-81 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services 4-5 ● 80-81 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters cover ● 80-81 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustain4 ● 80-81 ability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 4 ● 80-81 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 4 ● 80-81 customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Report the scale of the organization 4 ● 80-81 G4-10 Report the total number of employees 72-73 ● 80-81 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 73 ● 80-81 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 56, 75 ● 80-81 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, 4-5 ● 80-81 structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 22-23 ● 80-81 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 87 ● 80-81 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international 88 ● 80-81 advocacy organizations in which the organization Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents cover ● 80-81 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining 12-13 ● 80-81 Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 13 ● 80-81 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 13 ● 80-81 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 13 ● 80-81 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, cover ● 80-81 and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries cover ● 80-81 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 12 ● 80-81 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 12 ● 80-81 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the 12 ● 80-81 engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its 12 ● 80-81 reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided cover ● 80-81 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) cover ● 80-81 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) cover ● 80-81 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents cover ● 80-81 G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below) c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally 82-86 ● 80-81 assured. (GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines.) 82 KPC verified that the S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 meets the requirements for GRI G4 Guidelines ‘in accordance’ option comprehensive. ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Reported Report External G4 Indicator Note page coverage assurance G4-33 a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided 80-81 ● 80-81 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, 16-17 ● 80-81 environmental and social impacts G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the 16-17 ● 80-81 highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report 16-17 ● 80-81 directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any 16-17 ● 80-81 feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 16-17 ● 80-81 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his 17 ● 80-81 or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its commit17 ● 80-81 tees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and 16-17 ● 80-81 managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and 16-17 ● 80-81 goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective 16-17 ● 80-81 knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment 16-17 ● 80-81 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice G4-45 a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes 16-17 ● 80-81 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk 16-17 ● 80-81 management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and 16-17 ● 80-81 social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s 16-17 ● 80-81 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 16-17 ● 80-81 G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 16-17 ● 80-81 governance body and the echanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration 16-17 ● 80-81 b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report 16-17 ● 80-81 any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, 16-17 ● 80-81 including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 83 Appendix GRI G4 Index General Standard Disclosure ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Reported Report External G4 Indicator Note page coverage assurance G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in CEO is the highest-paid each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees individual in the company. (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country ● His compensation is five 80-81 times the median annual total compensation for all G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highemployees (excluding CEO). est-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in And it is applied by the annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same ● same increase rate of annual 80-81 country total compensation for all employees. G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 20 ● 80-81 conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, 18-21 ● 80-81 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line 18-21 ● 80-81 management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Specific Standard Disclosures ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Reported Report External G4 Indicator Note page coverage assurance Disclosures on Management Approach DMA a. Why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material b. How the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts ● 80-81 c. The evaluation of the management approach Performance Indices by Aspects Economic Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 75 ● 80-81 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to 61-62 ● 80-81 climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 43 ● 80-81 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government N/A 80-81 Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant N/A 80-81 location of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant location N/A 80-81 of operation Indirect Economic Impact G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 62-67, 78 ● 80-81 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 67, 78 ● 80-81 Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant location of operation 78 ● 80-81 Environmental Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 77 ● 80-81 G4-OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy N/A 80-81 G4-OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source N/A 80-81 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 50-51 ● 80-81 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 62 ● 80-81 84 ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Reported Report External G4 Indicator Note page coverage assurance Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A 80-81 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 77 ● 80-81 Emission G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN19 Reduction of reenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 62 ● 80-81 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) N/A 80-81 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 76 ● 80-81 Effluents and Wastes G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 76-77 ● 80-81 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 58-59, 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 77 ● 80-81 G4-EN25 Weight of transformed, imported, exported, or treated wasted deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste N/A 80-81 shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies related habitats N/A 80-81 significantly affected by the organization’s discharge of water and runoff Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for No violation for recent ● 80-81 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 3 years Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investment by type 76 ● 80-81 Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmrntal criteria 55-56 ◐ 80-81 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 55-56 ◐ 80-81 and action taken Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through 60 ● 80-81 formal grievance mechanism Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 72 ● 80-81 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime 42-44 ● 80-81 employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 72 ● 80-81 Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety 45 ● 80-81 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 73 ● 80-81 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 73 ● 80-81 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 45-46 ● 80-81 Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 41, 73 ● 80-81 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability 40-41 ◐ 80-81 of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by 38-41 ● 80-81 gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 39, 72 ● 80-81 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 55-56 ◐ 80-81 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and 55-56 ◐ 80-81 action taken S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 85 Appendix GRI G4 Index Specific Standard Disclosures ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Reported Report External G4 Indicator Note page coverage assurance Human Rights Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 38 ● 80-81 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support 42-44 ● 80-81 these rights Supplier Human Rights G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 55-56 ◐ 80-81 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and 55-56 80-81 actions taken ◐ Society Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 63-67 ◐ 80-81 assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 63-67 ◐ 80-81 G4-OG10 Number and description of significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples N/A 80-81 G4-OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being N/A 80-81 decommissioned Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the N/A 80-81 significant risk identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 18, 20, 70 ● 80-81 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 20 ● 80-81 Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 21 ● 80-81 Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 71 ● 80-81 and their outcomes Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 55-56 ◐ 80-81 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions 55-56 ◐ 80-81 taken Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 60 ● 80-81 grievance mechanisms Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety 30-32 ● 80-81 impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning No violation for recent 3 the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of ● 80-81 years outcomes Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant products and services N/A 80-81 subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning No violation for recent 3 ● 80-81 product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes years G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 71 ● 80-81 Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products N/A 80-81 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning No violation for recent 3 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of ● 80-81 years outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses ● No case for recent 3 years 80-81 of customer data Asset Integrity and Process Safety G4-OG13 Nunber of process safety events, by business activity 45-46 ● 80-81 86 UNGC Index Classification UNGC 10 Principles Contents Page Principle 1. ‌Businesses should support and respect the protection Ethics Management of internationally proclaimed human rights. 21 Human Rights O04 ‌Management of sustainability in the Principle 2. ‌Businesses should make sure that they are not 56 supply chain complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3. ‌Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Ethics Management and the effective recognition of the right to collective E01 ‌Management / Fair evaluation and bargaining. compensation Principle 4. ‌Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms E02 Talent cultivation 21 Labour of forced and compulsory labor. E03 ‌Healthy corporate culture / Establishment 38-44 Standards Principle 5. ‌Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of of harmonized labor-management 56 child labor. relations Principle 6. ‌Businesses should uphold the elimination of O04 ‌Management of sustainability in the discrimination in respect of employment and supply chain occupation. Principle 7. ‌Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Risk Management environmental challenges. E04 ‌Industrial safety and health management 22-23 Principle 8. ‌Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote O05 Environmental management Environment 45-46 greater environmental responsibility. O06 Response to climate change 57-67 Principle 9. ‌Businesses should encourage the development and O07 Social contribution activities diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. O08 Contribution to local communities Corporate Governance Compliance Management C04 ‌Protection of customers’ personal 16-19 AntiPrinciple 10. ‌Businesses should work against corruption in all its information / Fair competition in the market 35-36 Corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. O03 ‌Establishment of financial soundness / 52-53 Transparent management information disclosure S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 87 Appendix Accolades & Recognitions in 2016 Accolades & Recognitions in 2016 Month Accolades & recognitions Awarded by July Selected as the best product for customers at The PROUD (High-cetane Diesel) Korea Management Association Consulting September Listed on the DJSI World Index (Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing Industry) Dow Jones, RobecoSAM, Korea Productivity Center October Listed on Top 250 Global Energy Company (Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing Companies) S&P Global Platts October Selected as the best company at Social Responsibility Management Quality Award Social Responsibility Management Quality Institute November Selected as the company with the best corporate governance Korea Corporate Governance Service December Selected as the best marketing company at The Management Grand Award Korea Management Association Consulting December Selected as the best service station at Korea Net Promoter Score (KNPS) Index Korea Management Association Consulting Association Memberships Association Year of joining Association Year of joining Korea Petroleum Association 1980 Environment Protection Council 2002 Onsan Industrial Complex Environment Management Association 1983 Korea Forum for Progress 2005 Onsan Industrial Complex Safety Management Association 1986 Onsan Industrial Complex Hazardous Material Safety Management Council 2008 Korea Industrial Safety Association 1988 Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development 2008 Korea Fire Safety Association 1993 UN Global Compact 2010 Korea Chemical Management Association 1997 Korea Council on the Protection of Personal Information 2011 Korea Fair Competition Federation 2001 88 designed by IR PLUS +82-2-557-9592 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2016 89 This report is printed in soy ink and on FSC®-certified paper. Head Office S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul, 04196, Korea Onsan Refinery 68, Onsan-ro, Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan, 44995, Korea www.s-oil.com
