UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress 2 0 1 6 1 Communication On Progress 2016 UNGC Principles The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, the following set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of P1 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: P2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: P3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: P4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: P5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: P6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: P7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: P8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly P9 technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: P10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The above icons appear in the document to indicate that the relevant principle is addressed by the activity mentioned. Other UN Initiatives Caring for Climate Having taken part in the Caring for Climate initiative since August 2008, MAS is one of 453 companies from over 65 countries to be a part of this movement. The world’s largest global coalition, Caring for Climate is led by UN Global Compact, UNEP and UNFCCC. Based on the consensus that climate change will affect business and society in vital ways, consultants from UNGC, UNEP and WBCSD prepared a statement titled “Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform”, which offers participants an opportunity to demonstrate climate leadership. MAS chose to endorse and implement the Caring for Climate initiative through CEO support, tactical changes within the organization and ongoing public communication. Women’s Empowerment Principles The Women’s Empowerment Principles are the end result of a collaboration between UNGC and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality (UN Women). The principles offer guidance to companies on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. The seven principles are as follows: 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work, respecting and supporting human rights and non-discrimination. 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all female and male employees. 4. Promote education, training and professional development for women. 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women. 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy. 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. MAS was involved in the consultation process when the seven principles were formulated. In November 2011, Chairman of MAS Mahesh Amalean signed the CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles. MAS Holdings (Sri Lanka) and Mahesh Amalean were awarded the Women’s Empowerment Principles Leadership Award Cultural Change for Empowerment Award 2013 for the MAS Women Go Beyond initiative, a distinctive program established in 2003 that challenges the accepted norms of garment industry employment for women in Sri Lanka and the South Asian region. Business for Peace After a decade of researching the role of business and its contribution to peace, in September 2013, UN Global Compact launched the Business for Peace initiative. The platform assists companies in implementing responsible business practices in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. MAS endorsed the initiative in September 2013, and is proud to be one of its founding participants. MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT We are pleased to present the MAS Communication on Progress for the 13th consecutive year. MAS is an organization driven by the notion of change. Keeping in line with our motto ‘Change is Courage’, we are an organization that embraces change, and constantly works towards adapting to micro and macro environmental fluctuations. With our increasing global footprint, the current challenges we face are truly complex and certainly global, unlike those of yesteryear. Despite these dynamics, the triple bottom line approach is at the foundation of how we do business. It obliges us to always consider how decisions and actions may affect people, communities and the environment. At MAS, our objective is to ensure long-term profitability by reducing risks caused by business activities and to enhance positive contributions to society through our global operations; we want to do business not just for the present generation, but the next as well. 2016 was a pivotal year for sustainability as we saw the launch of an ambitious plan for MAS to catalyze sustainable change. Socially, we continued to support local communities, develop and nurture our staff, and increase our focus on ethical business practices. Last year, the Women Go Beyond team partnered with UNFPA to facilitate the MAS Women at the Workplace program. The recognition given to six empowered women as “Effective Leaders” at the Abhimani alumni forum was a fitting tribute to all empowered women at MAS. Our Eco Go Beyond Sustainable Schools Program completed another successful 3-year cycle with 30 schools. Within these 3 years, together with MAS, students from these schools have grown 8,385 new trees; harvested 3,498kg of nutritious vegetables and greens; and recycled 1,711kg of plastic, 3,636kg of paper, 4,923kg of glass and 1,370kg of iron. During the past 3 years, 275 stakeholders including MAS Senior Leadership, HR fraternity and other non-HR functions within MAS went through a ‘nemawashi’ process (socialisation) on the MAS Code of Conduct, the ‘MAS DNA’. In March 2016, the MAS DNA was relaunched for the senior leadership, taking into consideration the current social and organizational challenges. In May 2016, Sri Lanka dealt with the worst floods in decades affecting thousands of communities and our employees. We stood together in the wake of this catastrophe and made a collective contribution of Rs.13.8 million towards relief efforts. MAS facilities achieved a remarkable milestone by sweeping up 8 of the 9 awards in the textile and apparel industry at the Presidential Green Awards. We continued to report and verify our emissions by expanding our ISO 14064 certification to 40 facilities. We became the first apparel company to develop and complete an Environmental Risk Assessment Tool, which will become available for all MAS SBUs to monitor and assess their impact on the environment. Furthermore, we generated 2.2 million kWh of energy from our solar projects, an increase from 1.7 million kWh in 2015. In this Communication on Progress, we seek to describe some of the key themes and activities of MAS over the past twelve months. We have a focus on social and environmental sustainability, and people development. I take this opportunity to reiterate our continued support towards the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. Shakthi Ranatunga DirectorGroup Human Resources MAS Holdings (Pvt.) Ltd. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress 2 0 1 6 MAS AT A GLANCE 08 Sustainability Strategy and Structure 09 Stakeholder Engagement 13 Lives Made Better 17 • Diversity at Work 19 • A Global Employer of Choice 39 • Beyond Compliance and Standards 45 • Thriving Communities 48 Products Made Better 59 • Champion Climate Action 65 • Manage Our Footprint 70 • Support a Thriving Planet 83 APPENDICES 92 MAS AT A GLANCE What started off as an unconventional journey by three brothers some 30 years ago is today the region’s leading manufacturer of intimate apparel, performance wear and swimwear. Headquartered in Sri Lanka, MAS has established world-class apparel facilities in over 15 countries including several key global locations, and provides employment to over 86,000 people. Our design, innovation and manufacturing expertise has inspired the world’s leading fashion and retail brands including Victoria’s Secret, Nike, Marks & Spencer, DBA, lululemon athletica, Soma, H&M, Gap, Calvin Klein, Columbia Sportswear and Ralph Lauren to partner with us. Our products and services are enhanced by vertically integrated supply chains, and are supported by a full-scale lean enterprise platform. MAS also owns Sri Lanka’s first international lingerie brand, amanté, and has diversified through design and manufacturing to encompass lifestyle and fashion solutions. Our people are our pride and a major contributor to our success. Therefore, we believe in nurturing and investing in the wellbeing of our people and the communities around them. MAS is also reputed for its ethical and sustainable work environment, and continues to be at the forefront of women’s empowerment. This unique blend of manufacturing capability, inspiring people, worldclass products and ethical processes has continued to attract premium brands and retailers to partner with us. At its core, MAS is not just a business; it’s truly a way of life. 8 Communication On Progress 2016 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND STRUCTURE Realizing the change inside Over the last 6 years, our work in both environmental and social sustainability has helped us build strong foundations of culture and standards, and has drawn us closer to real relationships with our partners and peers who are equally passionate about making a real difference through our business operations. Our approach is grounded in integrating our business with sustainability goals and agendas. In line with this thinking, in 2016, we took a giant leap in that direction with the launch of our sustainability strategy. A plan for positive action In 2016, we set out to break the silos and unite the work being done by all MAS teams. We brought our hearts and minds together from across MAS to understand the depth of our impact. From a long list of material issues, we were advised to pick just one – instead, we chose many. We chose to put our people first and create a pillar for “LIVES MADE BETTER” because it’s what we do. We also chose a second pillar for “PRODUCTS MADE BETTER” because changing how we make products, what we make and doing it with a commitment to the environment has been a core ideal for MAS. We also chose several fundamentals that will uphold these two pillars together – “INNOVATION” and “RELATIONSHIPS” – as we understand that we have a great deal of foundations and standards to build up and several of our own tools to develop for this vision to become a reality by 2025. A policy for change Through this strategy, we have committed to strive and create a net positive impact on our eco system, with all our stakeholders, through our corporate vision to Inspire, Innovate, Create Value and Respect Humanity by building a purposeful business that grows to maintain the right balance between the demands of all our stakeholders, the limited resources of our planet and our ability to thrive economically as a future-facing business. We have committed to operate in an ethical, transparent and participatory manner at all times and with all stakeholders; to comply with all applicable local and international standards and legislation in relation to specific environmental aims; and to develop and continuously improve our processes focusing on several key objectives. 9 Communication On Progress 2016 A PLAN FOR POSITIVE ACTION #ChangeInside PRODUCTS MADE LIVES MADE BETTER BETTER ‘Products Made Better’ essentially means ‘Lives Made Better’ involves empowering changing our production processes and all those in our eco system to thrive with end products how they are made dignity. In ensuring this, we will continue and what we make. By ensuring that to maximize the well-being, health and our manufacturing processes minimize consciousness of all our stakeholders, negative impacts on the environment including our employees, their families and increase positive impacts over time, and the community, through continuous we believe we can maximize the benefits engagement and collaboration. to the environment around us as well as to our people, and make economic sense to our business. 10 Communication On Progress 2016 Leading to change Responsibility The overarching responsibility for our strategy sits with the MAS Capital Apparel Board, whose two key members oversee the main pillars of the group’s strategy. The chairman of MAS; the Apparel Board; and heads of each division, business unit and manufacturing facility, supported by departmental heads, will be responsible to ensure that the group’s policy and strategy are respected and implemented across the organization. Operational structure & oversight Chairman/Apparel Board – The responsibility and vision for the overall strategy lies with the chairman and the Apparel Board. Sustainability Advisory Board – This includes decision makers from the Board and from each business function, as well as key sustainability heads who will help steer the strategy in the right direction. Group Sustainability Team – This is a combined team of those who facilitate work at divisional level, drive strategy and coordinate core processes. The team is also the key reporting liaison between the advisory board and divisional heads. The Divisional Heads Council – This is a team of divisional sustainability heads, and includes both environmental and social sustainability leaders who decide how to implement the group-level strategy within their own divisions and SBUs. Divisional Operational Teams – These include divisional activators and their implementing teams, including technical leaders and engineers who help the divisions implement the work. SBU Teams – These include SBU-level management and champions who implement the work at local facility level. 11 Communication On Progress 2016 Meeting The SDGs Halfway Our plan for ‘Change Inside’ and its goals are intrinsically aligned with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 12 Communication On Progress 2016 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT When strategizing a sustainability framework, identifying the right stakeholders, engaging them in understanding issues, and responding to sustainability concerns based on risk and priority are vital. Stakeholder engagement is the starting point of any significant change, as it fosters accountability, in that it obliges the organization to involve those that affect and/or could be affected by its operations in identifying, understanding and responding to issues. It also requires companies to report, explain and answer to its stakeholders for its decisions, actions and performance thereafter. Identifying this as a crucial step in making an impact, MAS has, for the first time, embarked on stakeholder engagement to understand relevant issues and validate existing internal perceptions. The engagement was conducted as per the AA1000 stakeholder engagement standard, which was designed by AccountAbility as a multi-purpose tool, not only to be used for sustainable development but also by businesses, civil society, public bodies, and multistakeholder networks and partnerships. This engagement standard is built on the following three attributes: •• Inclusivity This is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. An inclusive organization accepts its accountability to those on whom it has an impact and those that impact it. •• Materiality This is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is one that will influence the decisions, actions and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. •• Responsiveness This is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance, and is realized through decisions, actions and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. 13 Communication On Progress 2016 Stakeholder engagement method and process The sustainability strategy at MAS had been developed based on a range of internal interactions with various levels of employees and finalized by the leadership. This exercise was facilitated by an external consultant named “Forum for the Future”. However, since a structured external stakeholder engagement had not been conducted, it was decided to conduct the same via Quantum Consumer Research, specialists in this field with over 10 years of experience in AA1000SES. A sample group was selected internally comprising 5 divisions and 13 SBUs. The main research objectives were as follows: i. To identify and determine the relevance and materiality of economic, environmental and social sustainable issues, while confirming internal perceptions. ii. To identify any issues that the study will throw out in addition to the currently identified issues. 14 Communication On Progress 2016 • Research was conducted in the following manner: 20 mini group discussions and 13 9 mini group paired interviews with discussions with the employees (managers, community in identified executives, and team areas members) 4 in-depth interviews 14 in-depth interviews with regulatory with suppliers and authorities service providers •• The discussions were carried out in a free-flowing method and were based on a structured discussion guide. This allowed the independent vocalization of thought. The research was conducted solely by trained researchers from Quantum Consumer Research, with no involvement of MAS or its employees. •• The fieldwork was carried out over a period of six weeks, and data gathered was shared with Quantum’s analysis team under strict confidentiality. The findings, which were reported under the three parameters of economic, social and environmental, were shared with the MAS team after 12 weeks. •• The report on the findings was also sent to each cluster in order to make it more relevant to individual teams. The findings were further studied to structure an organization-wide solution and response, which considered establishing key measures, developing policies, improving existing processes and identifying relevant initiatives. 15 Communication On Progress 2016 16 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 Lives Made P1 Better ‘Lives Made Better’ involves empowering all those in our eco system to thrive with dignity. In ensuring this, we will continue to maximize the well-being, health and consciousness of all our stakeholders – including our employees, their families and the community – through continuous engagement and collaboration. Stemming from MAS’s sustainability vision, we have clear direction in terms of how we should impact our stakeholders. From a social sustainability perspective, “Lives Made Better” provides a clear mandate on the intended positive impact. Within this space, MAS has four specific outcomes to be met by 2025. 17 Communication On Progress 2016 Measuring what we do The Triple Bottom Line method drives the business to see beyond traditional bottom lines to the impact the business makes socially, environmentally and economically. Measuring business progress using a system is one of the best markers of evaluating the level of sustainability of the business. This allows an organization to consider its non-financial performance, which is as important as determining how each stakeholder is impacted by the business or vice versa. Recognizing this need, MAS purchased a sustainability system called P3 developed by Nextgen in 2016. This has allowed the organization to disseminate a multitude of material measures to the strategic business units and divisions with ease. It also has eliminated the need for most manual interventions, in turn improving the accuracy, transparency and comparability of data. When developing the backend of the P3 system, a customization was done to suit the dynamics of an apparel manufacturing industry, as well as that of MAS. The data collation and reporting structures have also been developed to resonate with MAS’s organizational structure. A further set of MASspecific measures have been identified and linked with global standards such as IFC, ILO, UNGC, etc. An existing environment data tracker called eco-tracker is to be migrated to the P3 system once it is rolled out and confirmed as being stable. As a first step, MAS hopes to generate a group-level sustainability scorecard that will be presented to the board after each quarter. 18 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 P6 DIVERSITY AT WORK Diversity has many facets, and MAS believes in being as inclusive as possible in this sphere. Our aspirational goal for 2025 is to be a non-discriminatory employer in terms of age and impairment across our company, with a 1:1 gender ratio in management positions. In 2016, we took small but decisive steps towards accomplishing this overarching goal. 19 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 P6 A fair chance for all to be a part of the MAS family Competency-Based Recruitment Recruitment at MAS is conducted by attracting and selecting the right candidates through competency-based interviews and assessments. Prior to the selection process, each job role has an ideal profile mapped with professional, technical and leadership competencies. A competency-based assessment tool was designed and developed with Quest Profiler and Deloittes Consulting Group to suit MAS’s competency framework. The assessment tool provides a detailed overall report of the candidates, which helps us get a better understanding of the employees we are hiring. Competency-based interviewing is practiced across MAS, with the recruitment team and leadership being trained on the required skills. Adopting this strategy helps MAS hire the talent that best fits the role, as well as keep the business from making biased recruitment decisions. Recruitment process on T2o & MAS careers job portal The recruitment process on the Talent 2o system was re-looked at during 2016 and further simplified to facilitate the changing needs of the business. Internal mobility The HR platform that currently functions at MAS provides its employees opportunities internally (within Sri Lanka) and globally. Once an employee completes two years in their 20 Communication On Progress 2016 current role, we provide them the opportunity to move within the business. This helps employees with their career growth, as well as providing vast exposure to the various P1 functions of the business. The recruitment systems used at MAS not only give employees the opportunity to grow, but helps to retain them in the company. P2 Talent attraction on social media Understanding the importance of digitalization, MAS has given more significance to social media for its talent attraction activities. MAS uses platforms such as Facebook, LinkedIn P6 and Instagram to showcase its presence, and communicate the latest happenings and job opportunities available at MAS. Internship and permanent opportunities that are open within the group are also advertised on social media platforms. MAS uses LinkedIn, a professional networking platform, to attract active and passive candidates locally and globally to meet its business requirements. This tool helps us to employ individuals who have experience and exposure to global multinational companies. MAS Holdings’ Careers FB page is one of the very few Sri Lankan organizations to reach 100,000 Likes. Having a strong reach on social media helps MAS create a high level of awareness about the organization and its happenings. In addition, to increase diversity in the recruitment channel and expand its reach, we have partnered with career portals such as Top Jobs, CIMA, Ever Jobs and Express Jobs. University relationships With MAS growing in many different areas, talent requirement from academia is not limited to textile and fashion designing, which requires us to work closely and build relationships with local and foreign universities present in Sri Lanka to establish our business as an employer of choice. Based on our workforce planning strategy, we have categorized universities as follows in order to structure our interventions: •• Career days •• Internships •• Skills development •• MOUs •• Faculty developments •• Research and development MAS is the Platinum sponsor for all identified universities, and has recruited more than 500 graduates in 2016. Ideal profile directory The ideal profile directory is an internally developed tool that helps university students identify job families and roles available at MAS where they can contribute in line with their qualification. This tool is available at every career day to empower graduates to pick their ideal job within MAS. 21 Communication On Progress 2016 Skills for work At MAS, we believe it is our responsibility to develop local graduates and equip them P1 with the right transferable skills to increase their employability. “Skills for Work” was designed to develop the much-demanded soft skills of Sri Lankan graduates, and is now included in the curriculum as a credit-awarding module at major state universities. This P2 is a huge stepping stone for MAS as an organization, as we were one of the very few businesses in Sri Lankan history to enter a module into the local university curriculum. It is also a huge leap towards bridging the unemployment gap in Sri Lanka. P6 This ‘Skills for Work’ program initially began with University of Moratuwa textiles and fashion designing students; by the end of 2016, there were more than 100 local undergraduates who have competed the first year of this program. They will continue under this program, with the final result of being employed by an organization of their choice. Since this was a successful initiative, by the end of 2016, the program was recognized by the following universities and faculties as a credit-awarding module: •• Science and Management faculties, University of Sri Jayewardenepura •• Science and Management faculties, University of Colombo •• Management faculty, University of Peradeniya •• HR, University of Kelaniya •• CINEC •• SLIIT •• APIIT MAS plans to extend these relationships to all areas of Sri Lanka in 2017 to improve the employability of local undergraduates in universities including University of Jaffna, University of Rajarata, University of Ruhuna, Eastern University, AOD, APIIT and ACBT. 22 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 P6 Employing people with disabilities Being an equal opportunity employer, MAS currently employs more than 450 people under this category. Standardizing a policy structure and strategy towards employing people with disabilities was initiated in mid-2016. As the first step, MAS represented Sri Lanka at a three-week study tour on supported employment in Northern Ireland organized by the University of Kelaniya. The MAS Active ‘Hear Me Out’ program continues its annual initiatives of introducing work buddies who are trained to provide assistance to people with disabilities (PWDs), facilitating counselling sessions, and conducting sports and outdoor activities for PWDs. In 2016, the number of PWDs employed by MAS Active stood at 140 employees, amounting to 0.75% of their total workforce. MAS Active hopes to continue these programs in the coming years with the objective of creating an inclusive and more accessible workplace for everyone. 23 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 P6 THE POWER OF WOMEN The Power Of Women Standing up for what is right and providing opportunities for all, MAS continues to uphold women’s empowerment in its culture and among its workforce. The company’s hallmark program, MAS Women Go Beyond (WGB), currently in its fourteenth year, is a primary pillar that contributes to the strength of the company. With 70% of our 86,000 associates being women, MAS Holdings believes it is imperative to support and uplift this female workforce to ensure organizational development and personal growth. The flagship ‘Women Go Beyond’ initiative positions MAS as a pioneer in ethical business practices in Sri Lanka. The program, which hinges on the importance of empowering women in their place of employment, homes and communities, embarks on initiatives such as in-depth training to ensure wellness among women and their continuous progression through career advancement and skills development policies adopted in the work place, while supporting them with the necessary knowledge and awareness to achieve a healthy worklife balance. In addition, the WGB initiative recognizes and rewards women for their personal and professional achievements. 24 Communication On Progress 2016 CAREER DEVELOPMENT Programs under this category are designed to prepare the female workforce at MAS to P1 hold leadership positions within the organization, starting from entry-level blue collar jobs (Team Member). Initiatives such as training in IT and English language skills prepare them for future progression, while program on leadership and motivation, financial P2 management, and business etiquette provide the confidence and leverage to move up the career ladder. P6 •• Vision 2025 The company’s vision statement supports 1:1 gender replacement in all management categories by 2025. It is an initiative to develop the leadership pipeline by giving more opportunities to the female workforce through capacity building trainings. However, training and development programs conducted for employees always maintain an appropriate balance in male and female participation. The management team at MAS encourages and endorses women with potential, providing them more visibility through these training program and empowering them to take up male-dominant leadership roles within the organization. Work position changes of female employees (from 1 January 2016 to 6 December 2016) Current number of Previous work position Promoted work position Headcount females in the work position 50,400 Team Member Executive 4 Team Member Staff 408 3,455 Staff Executive 111 1,681 Junior Executive Executive 5 Executive Assistant Manager 14 Executive Manager 1 Executive Senior Executive 128 Senior Executive Assistant Manager 42 297 Assistant Manager Manager 24 Assistant Manager Senior Manager 1 Manager Deputy General Manager 8 Manager General Manager 1 41 Deputy General Manager Director 1 Deputy General Manager General Manager 4 General Manager Director 2 General Manager Group Director 1 25 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 Alumni Forum – Abhimani “Empowered Woman of the P2 Year” The annual Abhimani Alumni Forum was held in July 2016 with the P6 presence of 250+ past winners and runners-up. Alumni members work on different projects throughout the year, and exchange their knowledge and best practices with fellow members, building their leadership skills in the process. All seven chapters presented their annual activities at the event, and all alumni members were given an outbound training to increase confidence and build a better network among the members. At the Forum, six empowered women were recognized as the “Most Effective Chapter Leaders”. Equal pay for work of equal value MAS prides itself on maintaining sustainable compensation to the level of human welfare (or well-being), ensuring that it improves, but never declines, and is aligned with the long-term success of the company and its shareholders. Employee compensation is also based on a balanced framework of the following components: •• Fair and equitable in relation to the role and performance •• Realistic according to current market conditions •• In line with organizational and individual performance HELVETAS Swiss Intercooperation quoted in their report, “MAS is practicing to the point that the entry salary is the same for all, independent of the work conducted.” 26 Communication On Progress 2016 Go Beyond Champion Retreat and capacity building program The corporate ‘Women Go Beyond’ team, together with the Eco Go Beyond team, P1 organized the annual “Champions Retreat” to give our champions a networking and learning opportunity to excel in their role. P2 The two-day residential program had over 48 Sri Lankan SBUs in participation, as well as overseas SBUs. The aim of the main session was to share the Strategic & Activity Plan for 2016. The “Galle Fun Challenge” was conducted to add more value to the P6 program, which helped the GBCs improve their leadership, teamwork, communication and analytical skills. In addition, the corporate Eco Go Beyond team organized an environmental expedition to the world famous reservoir in Hiyare, Galle, to educate the GBCs on environmental sustainability. Diploma in English for women A second batch of 29 empowered women also successfully completed a Diploma in English conducted by Rainbow Institute (accredited by vocational education organization City & Guilds). Several students were also recognized and rewarded for “Best Attendance”, “Greatest Improvement” and “Batch Top”. In addition, the participants were given training in “Personality development for leadership”, “Idea extraction and talent recognition” and “Building on concepts” to improve their skills on leadership, personality development and public speaking. 27 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 Conquering the Odds In an inspiring talk, Ms. Jayanthi Kuru-Utumpala, the first Sri Lankan to summit Mt. Everest, and Mr. Johann Peiris shared their story and the challenges they faced in reaching P6 the peak with the senior management of MAS. Mentoring opportunities for female employees At MAS, the winners and runners-up of Empowered Woman of the Year are recognized as role models. They are then trained as mentors to support and empower newer female employees. Gap Inc. P.A.C.E Program MAS Intimates launched the Gap Inc. P.A.C.E Program in February 2016. The piloting of this initiative was done at Slimtex, with the attendance 180 participants as part of the inaugural batch. The P.A.C.E. (Personal Advancement and Career Enhancement) life-learning program was introduced by Gap Inc. in 2007 to provide opportunities for female apparel industry workers to enhance their leadership and life skills, to help their professional and personal growth, and to gain the skills and confidence they need to advance at work and in life. Many women say P.A.C.E. has been life changing, teaching them tangible skills, while shifting their perceptions of themselves and their abilities. KEY OBJECTIVES •• To positively impact participants by providing them with foundational skills and support that will help them advance in the workplace and in their personal lives •• To create a sustainable and scalable program model that benefits all participants and contributors •• To have a positive impact on communities by strengthening relationships with Gap Inc. strategic vendors 28 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 Technical training in leadership roles MAS Active provides opportunities for its female employees to take up work roles that are not traditionally managed by females in the apparel industry, thereby straying from P6 socially assigned gender-specific work roles and giving emphasis to an individual’s skills, qualifications and interests. With this in mind, MAS Active conducts programs to develop female mechanics, printers and cutters, giving them an opportunity to progress in alternative career paths. In 2016, a total of 16 female employees were trained to be cutters, 19 to be mechanics and 10 to be electricians. 2016 Cutters Mechanics Printers Electricians No. of Those No. of females Those appointed No. of Those No. of Those females appointed trained to the role/ females appointed females appointed trained to the role/ currently trained to the role/ trained to the role/ currently working currently currently working working working 16 15 19 8 27 10 WORK LIFE BALANCE This pillar takes steps to help female employees manage their work life balance, and more importantly to meet her own personal and vocational needs. It covers program on sexual and reproductive health, counselling and beauty culture, as well as company-sponsored health week and clinics. Flexible Work Options The MAS Innovation team started a pilot project to support and promote flexible work hours and the option to work from home among employees, and the program is now being adopted successfully company-wise with the support of the top management. The 1:1 balance in senior leadership roles at MAS Innovation proves that flexible work options are successful. Access to Childcare We support our employees and their families by providing crèche facilities for their children at several production facilities, corporate offices and foreign plants. 29 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 Crèche facilities at MAS Active: P6 MAS Active provides childcare facilities at seven of its SBUs across Sri Lanka, India and Jordan. The facilities are open to MAS employees, as well as to the surrounding communities. Of the 270 children benefiting from these facilities, in total, 160 of them are children of MAS employees. This has proven effective in supporting over 90 of our employees manage their work-life balance. Pictures show Crèche facilities Crèche facilities at MAS Intimates: MAS Intimates has established childcare facilities at Unichela Panadura and Linea Fashions India (LFI). The crèche at Unichela Panadura is driven by a third party, with MAS funding the refurbishment of the premises. Currently, 44 children of MAS employees and 3 children of external parties benefit from the facility. There are three teachers, four nannies and one janitorial staff member working at the daycare center. Operational since 2007, the LFI crèche facility benefits over 50 children from the ages of 4 months to 6 years. Regular checkups are carried out on the children, and they are provided an annual medical screening. There are six caretakers at the facility. Children are also given opportunities to celebrate Children’s Day, Republic Day and Independence Day. 30 Communication On Progress 2016 Support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave P1 All pregnant employees at MAS are provided an ‘orange scarf’ as recognition so they can receive preferential attention. We also have continuous education trainings and monitoring through Health Care Units for them via the ‘Dignity of Motherhood’ and P2 ‘Wings of Motherhood’ programs. They are also entitled to nutritious food in the canteen. Additionally, all pregnant employees and new mothers are provided flexi working hours that give them the option of working from home as well. P6 100 Voices Program with UNFPA The Women Go Beyond team facilitated an introductory “100 Voices” program to create awareness about issues related to Gender-Based Violence. This program aims to educate employees, as well as the communities around MAS production facilities, on eradicating violence against certain individuals. ‘21st Century Leadership Leading a Diverse Workforce’ by Dr. Sarah Saska Dr. Sarah Saska, who was recognized as one of Canada’s Top 100 Most Powerful Women by Women’s Executive Network in 2015, conducted a strategic workshop to get a better understanding of the concept of gender and its integral role in 21st century leadership competencies, and to garner an understanding of personal gender blind-spots through practical examples of innovation (research, development and businesses). The discussion also covered the following areas: •• An in-depth study to understand the multiple-faceted challenges. •• Developing interventions to address the issues surfaced towards systemic change. •• Metrics to ensure women representation at each level of the organization. Getting More Out of Life This program’s objective is to improve the employees’ knowledge and skills on sexual and reproductive health, and to achieve the desired behavioral change in order to face life events more confidently, competently and effectively. In addition, a free clinic for female employees is conducted at all SBUs, which includes a pap smear test to detect cervical cancer, clinical breast examinations and paravaginal examinations to exclude any other gynecological pathologies. Aloka – Creating breast cancer awareness Aloka, MAS Intimates’ hallmark program to create breast cancer awareness, commenced in November 2014. In 2015 and until mid-2016, the program created awareness among associates of all MAS Intimates plants, while the second half of 2016 was dedicated to refreshers for new employees and training of Aloka project teams to be able to support the initiative in a self-sustaining manner within their plant. •• The key elements of Aloka were included in all team member induction programs. •• All nurses at the medical centers have been given basic training on communicating details of this program to all new employees at induction. •• The main purpose of this program is to make women aware and empower them in order to prevent breast cancer or detect it early. 31 Communication On Progress 2016 •• Many plants utilized its radio stations, supplemented by leaflets and Q&A’s with medical experts to continually spread the message on the shop floor. P1 •• An Aloka breast cancer awareness corner at Unichela Panadura was opened to provide further information to employees. Leaflets and booklets were also distributed to all employees on P2 awareness, early detection and conducting selfexaminations. •• Last year, over 18,500 employees benefited P6 from the program with the help of 75 nurses/ the Aloka teams, and 44 medical staff and ER teams. Additionally, 58 employees were detected with lumps after the self-examination and were provided with follow-up treatments. Pictures show activities and the awarness meterial distributed through the Aloka Breast cancer programe Gender sensitivity training and happy family life program These programs were conducted to educate MAS employees and the surrounding community on the following: •• Gender-based violence •• Gender-based norms •• Appreciating diversity in the workplace •• Gender equity and equality •• Gender discrimination •• Changing the workplace into a more female friendly environment •• Determinants of family well-being •• Reducing turnover and absenteeism in identified work places •• Holistic health •• Child well-being •• Sexual well-being •• Dealing with emotional problems •• Alcohol, tobacco and drug prevention •• Self-harm prevention 32 Communication On Progress 2016 SKILLS DEVELOPMENT & REWARDING EXCELLENCE P1 All MAS facilities have multiple programs that help develop employees’ intrinsic skills and talents, ranging from arts and crafts to performance arts and culinary abilities. Some women have taken the full benefit from the trainings and started their own business, P2 either by themselves or as a part-time vocation. MAS nurtures this entrepreneurial spirit by hosting events and giving opportunities for employees to showcase their talents in art and performance. P6 Awards of recognition are presented to female employees on their overall contribution to the organization, as well as their work ethic and motivational skills. Recognizing MAS talent – Spotlight Story – Abhinandani 2016 For the second time in Women Go Beyond’s history, “Abhinandani”, the MAS talent show, was staged in front of a 2,000+ audience on 21 November 2016 at Stein Studios. We received over 2,000 applications from across all divisions, including from overseas plants. Mini talent shows were held in many SBUs as part of the selection process, reaching out to employees at all levels of the plant. Providing the opportunity to showcase a variety of talents, this year, the competition was conducted in singing, dancing, music, acting, art, photography, compeering, fashion design and modeling. Apart from esthetic skills, “Abhinandani” develops our employees’ coordination, leadership and confidence, and opens doors for new areas of talent to venture in. Around 434 participants from across 29 SBUs participated at the semifinals held in October, while 250 employees across 29 SBUs showcased their talent and were rewarded at the grand finale. Eight teams were recognized for their outstanding performances. The eminent panel of judges comprised nationally and internationally recognized artistes with expertise in their respective areas. 33 Communication On Progress 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT P1 •• The Future Fund is a charity founded by the employees of Unichela Panadura, which raises funds annually to provide school supplies to underprivileged children, including children of our employees. Since inception in 2013, The P2 Future Fund has raised Rs4.3 million and provided packs of exercise book to 5,200 students. Funds are raised mainly through an annual musical show, related smaller localized events and sponsorships. P6 •• Fifty six senior prefects of Girls High School Kandy were given a leadership development training conducted by MAS internal trainers to develop the future generations of women in leadership. Teamwork, communication techniques and analytical skills were also covered during the training program. Pictures show the leadership development training for the senior prefects of Girl’s High School Kandy. The MAS employee management system has provisions to obtain sex disaggregated data on the following as and when required: •• Gender ratios in senior management, middle management and board positions •• Equal pay for work of equal value •• Flexible work options and working from home option •• Access to childcare •• Support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave •• Recruitment and retention, including training and development •• Education and training opportunities •• Mentoring opportunities 34 Communication On Progress 2016 Summarized feedback received from HELVETAS Swiss Intercooperation on their field visit to all MAS Production facility – Slimline P1 HELVETAS Swiss Intercooperation Sri Lanka is an international non-governmental development organization contributing to the improvement of livelihoods of economically and socially disadvantaged people. HELVETAS Swiss Intercooperation commenced work P2 in Sri Lanka in 1978. Since then, it has continued to support development initiatives in Sri Lanka, which contributed to a reduction in inequities and alleviation of poverty in areas such as rural infrastructure, sustainable management of natural resources, education, P6 culture and governance. Feedback given by the HELVETAS team after their recent visit to MAS Slimline is as follows: •• Physical facilities The canteen, facilities for sports and entertainment, changing areas and health stations are maintained in an excellent state. All this demonstrates an interest in staff welfare and high standards of hygiene. •• Engaging hearts and minds A lot of thought has gone into making MAS a socially attractive workplace, and reinforcing this message within the local community. The company promotes sports among workers, and supports them in participating in national and international tournaments. The sports facilities are also available for local communities. MAS runs a local radio broadcasting popular songs. Parents/spouses are invited to visit the company so they can see the working conditions for themselves. Visits and events with children are also promoted. •• The business case The basic business case can only be applauded: With happy and healthy employees, there is high productivity. The model appears to be borne out in practice in that: • Staff are highly motivated and well trained. • There is high staff loyalty, so little turnover and thus relatively little investment needed in training new personnel. • Absenteeism is low, due to the medical care provided combined with the emphasis on good nutrition, personal hygiene, etc. •• Special attention given to pregnant women and people with disabilities. •• Training program for newcomers There appears to be very good provision for training and capacity building, especially for women who wish to proceed up the career ladder within the company. Nevertheless, it is important that all managers have an understanding of inclusive leadership, and the specific skills required to bring out the best in all employees. •• Promoting women to managerial positions. •• Role models and non-stereotypical roles. •• Equal pay for equal work. •• Rolling out and streamlining good practices. MAS also aims to share its experiences in a number of (limited) forums, including interactions with UN women. The company is also open to students conducting studies on its workforce practices. 35 Communication On Progress 2016 WGB PRESENCE IN PANEL DISCUSSIONS •• UNFPA – Bringing generations together to our Sri Lanka March 26th 2016 P1 •• IEEE – Women in Engineering Tech Forum April 30th 2016 Climbing the leadership ladder and breaking barriers •• Women Deliver Conference May 16th 2016 P2 Accelerating private sector action in women empowerment in the global value chain •• UNDP #2030 NOW: Foresight and Innovations Summit P6 for Sustainable Human Development May 25th 2016 •• Equal ground in collaboration with British High Commission SL, European Union and US Embassy Sri Lanka June 10th 2016 Moving diversity forward in the workplace on the challenges and benefits of inclusion and diversity to barriers, trade relations and the economy •• Canadian High Commission and UNFPA December 07th 2016 Engendering Change: Investing in a GBV-free Workplace Impacts of the programs: Total impact WGB Pillar SBU Level No. of programs No. of impacts Career Advancement 138 6,922 Work-Life Balance 346 225,742 Skills Development 172 27,012 Rewarding Excellence 53 59,358 Other Branding 107 57,212 Programs Total 816 376,246 Summary – Corporate WGB WGB Pillar Corporate WGB No. of programs No. of impacts Career 6 469 Advancement Work-Life Balance 7 382 Skills Development 1 441 Rewarding 1 243 Excellence Other Branding 2 2,210 Programs Total 17 3,745 36 Communication On Progress 2016 Summary – Intimates Division WGB Pillar SBU Level P1 No. of programs No. of impacts Career 25 4,448 Advancement P2 Work-Life Balance 166 148,988 Skills Development 40 906 P6 Rewarding 20 7,732 Excellence Other Branding 34 37,418 Programs Total 285 199,492 Summary – Active Division WGB Pillar SBU Level No. of programs No. of impacts Career 94 1,385 Advancement Work-Life Balance 125 30,086 Skills Development 115 15,973 Rewarding 19 20,176 Excellence Other Branding 71 17,584 Programs Total 424 85,204 Summary – Bodyline WGB Pillar SBU Level No. of programs No. of impacts Career 3 120 Advancement Work-Life Balance 2 1,020 Skills Development 4 5,050 Rewarding 3 16,000 Excellence Total 12 22,190 37 Communication On Progress 2016 Summary – Linea Aqua WGB Pillar SBU Level P1 No. of programs No. of impacts Career Advancement 8 415 P2 Work-Life Balance 45 44,666 Skills Development 10 4,587 Rewarding Excellence 10 15,207 P6 Total 73 64,875 Summary – Fabric Division WGB Pillar SBU Level No. of programs No. of impacts Career Advancement 2 85 Work-Life Balance 1 600 Skills Development 2 55 Total 5 740 38 Communication On Progress 2016 A GLOBAL EMPLOYER OF CHOICE As one of the categories under Lives Made Better, “Global employer of choice” is of significant importance to MAS as it ventures to extend its global footprint. Currently operational in 15 countries, MAS believes that its future growth lies in how we remain people focused. This is the rationale behind why MAS hopes to be a global employer of choice, with specific initiatives that have been identified to achieve this status by 2025. 39 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P6 THE POWER OF WOMEN A Culture of Learning MAS believes its biggest strength is its people. To this end, the group’s Learning & Development Team supports this mission by building talent and sustaining relations, leading to growing the knowledge, ability and skills of its employees at all levels. The L&D team is focused on delivering learning opportunities that are comprehensive and customized, advancing the vision of a “Classroom of One” – where every MAS employee, no matter where they are based, can engage in continuous learning with a personalized curriculum (Individual Development Plans, or IDPs) to develop unique strengths, own their leadership journey, and build a powerful and meaningful career. Our overall objective is to create learning experiences that are global, local, personal, digital and – above all – transformational. The following are some of the ways in which we are changing the L&D landscape: •• Recognizing that employee-learners are in the driver’s seat: Learning organizations should think deeply about how the user experiences a company’s learning offerings. Employees need to be viewed as customers to be satisfied, rather than as students to be pressured into traditional learning classrooms. 40 Communication On Progress 2016 •• Becoming comfortable with the shift from push to pull: Switching from a content-centric “push” approach to a learner-centric “pull” approach P1 requires a cultural shift within learning organizations. Giving up full control over learning content, schedules and platforms may not be easy, but learning organizations that embrace this shift can deliver more effective learning P6 throughout the organization. This is what MAS aspires to be by 2020. •• Introducing and adopting a learning architecture that supports continuous learning: Dedicate resources, set expectations and align corporate culture with the goal of enabling employees to get the learning they need, when they need it, at every stage in their careers. The past 12 months have seen 45 group programs rolled out. Competency Basket Program Individuals Upskilled The Leadership Framework designed for 1. Accelerated 33+ 61+ 40 MAS based on interactions with top leaders Learning +2 Leaders has four main themes: Program developed • Global Growth and an Innovation 2. Coaching with the use Mindset For Greater of multiple • Customer/Consumer Intimacy Effectiveness interventions • Engaging/Nurturing Talent/Community 3. MAS Leadership • Driving Excellence through Execution Challenge 4. Authentic Leadership Program The Professional Framework comprises: 1. MAS Executive 96+ 30 • Cognitive Ability Development • Relationship Management Program • Driving Excellence 2. MAS Emerging • Leadership Competencies (applicable Leaders Program across all levels) Technical Framework 1. MAS HR College 309+ 26 + 27+ Categories of technical competence: 2. Commercial 35+ 70 • Technical foundation knowledge essential & Logistic Job to perform duties in the job family Family Upskilling • Additional technical knowledge that will with CINEC help perform duties better 3. On-Demand • Technical knowledge not directly related Technical Training to the work of the job family, but critical 4. Program for at an organizational level TL&GL •Technical knowledge of the external environment, which influences the work carried out by the job family • Technical knowledge of systems and tools 41 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 THE POWER OF WOMEN Nurturing Champions Sports are an integral part of working at MAS. We have consistently encouraged and supported employees with active sporting careers, as well as those with the potential to become successful sporting personalities. 42 Communication On Progress 2016 BOXING •• Vidushika Prabadhi of Slimline was awarded a Silver medal at ‘Montana P1 Belts’ International Boxing Tournament 2016. •• Vidushika Prabadhi, Anusha Kodituwakku and PVDDD Saparamadu of Slimline won Silver medals, and NGS Jayaweera also of Slimline and PMTS Ranasinghe of Linea Clothing won Bronze medals at the 12th South Asian Games 2016 held in Guwahati, India. •• KAK Hansika of Unichela won a Gold medal and was awarded the Women’s Best Boxer title, while Dinidu Saparamadu of Slimline won a Gold medal and was awarded the Men’s Best Boxer title at the Layton Cup 2016. Several other players were awarded at the event as well. •• JAD Jayasinghe of Thuruli won a Gold medal and was awarded the Women’s Best Boxer title, while Dinidu Saparamadu of Slimline won a Gold medal and was awarded the Men’s Best Boxer title at the Clifford Cup Boxing Championships 2016. Several other players were also awarded at the event. SWIMMING •• MAS became champions for the sixth consecutive year at the annual Mercantile Swimming Meet 2016, held at the Thurstan College pool. CRICKET •• MAS became champions at the Mercantile ‘A’ Division League and the knockout champions of the Mercantile ‘A’ Division matches. •• Several MAS employees represented Sri Lankan at international cricket matches – namely T M Dilshan, Dilruwan Perera, Danushka Gunathilaka, Kusal Janith Perera and Niroshan Dikwella. NETBALL •• MAS became Mercantile ‘D’ Division champions in 2016. TABLE TENNIS •• MAS became the overall champion at the Mercantile Open Championship 2016 and the Mercantile Knockout Championship 2016. •• At the South Asian Games 2016, Nirmal Jayasinghe was a part of the Sri Lankan team that won a Silver medal at the team event and a Bronze medal at the men’s doubles event. HOCKEY •• MAS became Runner-up at the Mercantile 7’s ‘B’ Division match. TENNIS •• MAS was awarded the overall champion at the Mercantile Championship 2016. 43 Communication On Progress 2016 BADMINTON •• Employees of MAS won 8 Silver medals and 6 Bronze medals at the South P1 Asian Games 2016. •• MAS came in third place overall at the Mercantile Team Championship 2016. •• The MAS ‘A’ team became Runner-up in the Grand Slam ‘A’ Division, while the ‘B’ team was Runner-up on the Plate ‘C’ Division and the ‘C’ Bodyline team became Runner-up in the Novices Division at the Mercantile Team Doubles Championship. •• MAS came in second place overall at the Mercantile Individual Championship, with Buwaneka Goonathilake being ‘triple crowned’ at the tournament in the singles, men’s doubles and mix doubles events. Other MAS team members were also awarded at the event. BASKETBALL •• The MAS women’s ‘B’ division team was Runners-up at the 26th Mercantile League Tournament and the 11th Ram Ratnavale – Mercantile Knockout Tournament. •• The men’s ‘B’ and ‘D’ divisions became Runners-up at the 11th Ram Ratnavale – Mercantile Knockout Tournament. ATHLETICS •• MAS became the overall Runner-up at the Mercantile Athletics Championship 2016. SQUASH •• Gihan Suwaris of MAS won a Bronze medal at the South Asian Games 2016. SHOOTING •• Ruwini Abeymanna was a part of the Sri Lankan team that won a Bronze medal at the SAG Games 2016, held in India. She was also a part of the team that participated at the International Sport Shooting Federation (ISSF) World Cup 2016 held in Rio De Janeiro, Brazil. •• MAS team members were also awarded at the Metallic Silhouette Shooting National Championship 2016, the NSSF National Shooting Championship 2016 and the NSSF Open Shooting Championship 2016. PARA ATHLETICS •• Amara Indumathi won two Gold medals and a Silver medal at the Asia Oceania in Dubai, Silver and Bronze medals at the Berlin Meet, a Bronze medal at the China Grand Prix, and was placed in two events at the World Paralympic Games 2016 held in Rio. VOLLEYBALL •• MAS Casualline Volleyball team won the Mercantile Championship for the 2nd consecutive year and the Super League title for the 5th consecutive year at the Mercantile tournament. 44 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 P3 P4 BEYOND P5 COMPLIANCE AND STANDARDS P6 P10 MAS DNA The years 2015 and 2016 saw significant progression on how MAS embedded its values throughout the organization. A clear mandate led to a rigorous drive to develop the code of conduct branded as “MAS DNA”, which comprised a culmination of policies and processes that prescribed the expectations of all staff. Currently, the code has been launched with an awareness drive completed for the leadership of all businesses. This is set to continue as a staggered approach in 2017 until all staff have been educated. MAS is committed to avoiding incidents of corruption and violation of human rights, with zero tolerance within its sphere of influence. MAS is also keen to uphold its values when interacting with its numerous stakeholders on a regular basis. 45 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 Mission VISION Inspire Innovation & P3 To Inspire, Innovate, Sustainability Create Valueand Build Talent & Strategic Respect Humanity Relationships P4 Achieve Excellence &Ambitious Profitable Growth P5 P6 Elements MAS Building Block What it means to us Value Honesty & Integrity Being truthful and transparent in all our actions P10 Trust & Mutual Respect Trusting others ability and being respectful of our differences Humility Being modest about our status Freedom with Accountability Enjoying our freedom at work while delivering responsibly Core Strengths People The driving force behind our success Partnerships Our long-standing relationships with our partners Product Focus Our undivided attention on giving the complete solution Process The way we do things Profitability Achieving our targets in numbers Culture Entrepreneurial & Innovative Taking ownership, pushing boundaries and creating newness in everthing we do Collaborative Willingness to work together despite our differences Teamwork Willingness to play any role in a team with equal enthusiasm Cautiously Aggressive Taking calculated risks to carefully evaluating situations Participative Management Willingness to support others Progress on MAS DNA As this is a behavior-related initiative, we have taken a top-down approach. After the introduction of the Code to senior leadership – 200 leaders at a specially held forum – it was taken to each division and the operational teams were trained. Thereafter, we appointed two persons from each unit to be Code Officers (they will also be the custodians of this process). To-date, we have 46 Code Officers across the group who have been trained on this process. The next step is to educate the entire executive and above cadre, which will be the responsibility of the manager and the Code Officer. A helpline will also be available by mid-2017 for people to raise concerns. This entire process will give clarity to every employee as to what the company expects of them, as well as to all stakeholders to gain clear insight into how we operate and what we stand for. 46 Communication On Progress 2016 Business Continuity Management (BCM) With the integration of Social Sustainability, many evaluations were conducted internally P1 on prevailing process gaps in the areas of best practices and compliance. This led to the identification of the lack of a robust Business Continuity Process. As an initial phase, it was decided to carry out a BCM consultation for group human resources, technological P2 services and the chairman’s office. This was conducted by a third-party supplier with the intent of progressing the same across the group in the near future. Audits P3 MAS continues to conduct audits integrating labour, health, safety and supply chain security as it has in the past. Apart from this, customer audits are also conducted throughout the year. P4 As is the standard practice, the standards have continued to be raised, with audit criteria becoming more stringent. We had some setbacks related to audits, but have corrected P5 the issues and introduced improvements in the system to ensure that MAS continues to learn from these exercises to better ourselves and consistently raise the bar. We have also excelled in certain audits in the past year. P6 A key highlight of last year’s audits would be the L Brands Integrated Compliance audit at MAS Intimates. For the 9 Intimates plants audited, the average score was 97%, with P10 Linea Fashions India (LFI) Unit 1 and 2 scoring 99% and 100%, respectively, and Silueta scoring 99.4%. Furthermore, Athleta USA picked Casualline to partner with Fair Trade USA to be certified as Fair Trade supplier. This certification program ensures that all workers of Casualline receive a premium of 1% of the FOB value of the certified products shipped to Athleta. Casualline joins Leisureline, which has been a Fair Trade factory since 2015. In addition, at the National Occupational Safety & Health Excellence Awards 2016, Nirmaana was awarded the Gold Winner, while Mihintale won the Special Award for the Best Safety Innovation and was the Sector Winner for the Textile Sector Nirmaana team at the National Occupational Safety & Health Excellence Awards 47 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 THRIVING COMMUNITIES We at MAS believe being a good corporate citizen is just as important as being a strength to the communities around us and the whole country. Being an active, caring and contributing member of society has been inculcated in the MAS culture since inception. Most of our community-centered initiatives are conducted by empowering those at our strategic business units and divisions to assess the requirements in their communities. We also pride ourselves in being the first point of call for assisting large community-centered initiatives and causes, some which have continued over several years, proving that MAS extends assistance beyond our immediate communities to the nation at large. Throughout 2016, we also worked on collating data on our community outreach programs to better understand our collective impact. A result of that exercise can be seen in how we have reported this section – categorized into the 4 themes around which most of our activities were centered, namely education, health, local connect and nation mindedness. As a further step, we are also in the process of putting in place a process to measure volunteer hours. 48 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 THE POWER P2 OF WOMEN Education Knowledge is power, and MAS strives to impart this understanding to communities through our capacity building and infrastructure initiatives around education. By educating and creating awareness about issues that matter, we hope to enhance people’s knowledge to positively influence our country. Continuous education is also held in high esteem at MAS, and we aim to inculcate this mindset among our people by supporting employees’ children and those in the communities around us in their educational endeavours. In addition to the various forms of infrastructure development assistance given by MAS to various educational institutes, other education-related initiatives conducted by MAS SBUs include scholarship seminars for Grade 5 students, leadership programs, book donations, and sustainability awareness for students and teachers. All programs are organized and sponsored with the objective to develop the educational sphere and widen horizons for students, thereby improving the quality of life. Several SBUs also celebrated World Children’s Day by sponsoring events held at schools and institutes in its vicinity. Donating school items is also a step taken by MAS to ensure capacity building at these institutions. 49 Communication On Progress 2016 MAS Children’s Program at the Fairway Galle Literary Festival P1 P2 Welcoming avid readers and literary patrons from the world over, MAS partnered with the 2016 Fairway Galle Literary Festival to introduce a comprehensive children’s program to the festival as a part of its initiative to inculcate a learning culture in Sri Lanka. The Galle Literary Festival celebrates the work of Sri Lankan and international authors through workshops, panel discussions, debates, book readings, musical performances and art exhibitions, which take place in and around the historical Galle Dutch Fort. The festival is an immersive cultural experience that celebrates literature and the arts. MAS facilitated the following programs as a part of its community outreach initiative, reaching a nationwide audience: • Kandy Schools’ Day • Kandy Teacher Training • Galle Teacher Training • Galle Children’s Program • Galle Children’s Festival Above: Upcycling activity in Kandy • Jaffna Schools’ Day Top left: Presentation on waste in Galle • Jaffna Teacher Training The Schools’ Days in Kandy and Jaffna invited hundreds of students from primary and secondary schools, giving them the chance to participate in a variety of storytelling sessions and interactive workshops run by world-renowned authors, storytellers and artisans. In Kandy, 177 kids from 6 local schools participated, while 250 students from 13 primary and secondary schools attended the program in Jaffna. Teacher Training Forty seven English teachers from primary and secondary schools in and around Kandy participated in a training program presented by the British Council. ‘Story Telling in the Classroom’ inspired teachers to encourage children to read and write their own stories through the power of interactive storytelling. 50 Communication On Progress 2016 While in Galle, over 100 student teachers from the Amarasuriya Teacher Training College participated in a half-day teacher training workshop led by Geeta Ramanujam P1 from Kathalaya Academy of Storytelling in India. These workshops demonstrated the effectiveness of involving students in the storytelling process by introducing body language, music and acting. P2 Around 21 teachers from schools in Jaffna and Killinochchi attended a day of training also led by Geeta Ramanujam from Kathalaya Academy of Storytelling in India. This session was particularly significant as Geeta was able to communicate with them in Tamil and share Tamil folk stories from India. The British Council also presented ‘Story Telling in the Classroom’ on the second day of the program. Galle Children’s Festival The Galle Children’s Festival, which was a completely free event, was held at Dharmapala Children’s Park in Galle. The event gave children opportunities to try new activities and be exposed to international writers and performers. Over 2,750 children participated with their parents/guardians and teachers, with many more families visiting and observing throughout the afternoon. Special provisions were made to ensure that the event was inclusive and accessible for all. Children from a diverse range of ethnicities from local and international schools, support groups, NGOs, disability groups and children’s homes took part from locations as far reaching as Jaffna, Batticaloa, Kandy, Colombo and Hambantota. Over 180 children with disabilities (and their families) were also supported to attend and participate in the special Common Ground initiative, which featured multilingual performances by children from Kalmunai, Jaffna, Tangalle, Ragama and Ratmalana. Galle Children’s Program Apart from all of the above, a one and a half day ticketed program that had 3 dedicated streams for different age groups from 5-14 years was enjoyed by around 90 children. The program included storytelling, crafts and other creative sessions led by international and local authors, performers and artisans. From interaction with international authors and performers to learning about faraway places and cultures, to the hands-on creation of upcycled masterpieces, the program was a truly unique experience for the children. 51 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 P8 ‘Eco Go Beyond’ – Phase 3 In 2016, the Eco Go Beyond team concluded three years of its ‘Eco Go Beyond’ Sustainable Schools Program of 2014. It also marked the 10-year anniversary of the continuous Participants at the annual leadership camps and education program. students at work in their schools The program was conducted in 13 communities: Mahiyanganaya, Mawathagama, Biyagama, Horana, Hanwella, Pimbura, Pannala, Kuliyapitiya, Pallekelle, Thulhiriya, Awissawella, Koggala and Embilipitiya. The rollout took place through 30 workshops that impacted 4,219 students, 254 teachers, and 357 parents and well-wishers. In addition, 5,096 handouts were distributed. This brings the total student impact by the program, over 2006 to-date, to just over 43,000. The annual Residential Eco Go Beyond Leadership Camp was held at MAS Athena this year, with 115 students and 57 teachers in attendance. The overall winner based on their three years of performance was Handupelpola Maha Vidyalaya. For the first time in the history of the program, the entire awards ceremony was compeered by a student of a participant school – Sakuni Ayodya of Sagarapalansooriya School in Handapangoda. This year, as Phase 3 of the project, the students embarked on an interesting initiative to gather traditional knowledge. Through this, they approached village elders, their grandparents and retired public officers for information on various practices including ancient home remedies, agricultural practices, fishing methods, and arts and craft. The students also continued the concepts introduced over the past two years. Statistical achievements at the schools for the period March 2014 to August 2016: •• Number of new trees planted: 8,385 •• New grass grown: 7,6783m2 •• Nutritious vegetables and greens harvested: 3,498kg •• Amount of compost made: 55,940kg •• Plastic recycled: 1,711kg •• Iron recycled: 1,370kg •• Paper recycled: 3,636kg •• Glass recycled: 4,923kg •• 29 out of 30 schools are measuring their electricity consumption •• 29 out of 30 schools are measuring their water consumption 52 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 THE POWER P2 OF WOMEN Health We believe a healthy society is the foundation for greater productivity, and are committed to ensuring the safety and health of our people. By helping with health-related programs in our locality like renovating hospitals, donating medical equipment, and conducting health and safety campaigns, we aim to promote a healthy and happy society. Facilitating awareness initiatives and pop-up clinics also helps us ensure the good health of our employees, thus enabling them to be the backbone of our operations. In addition to conducting blood donation campaigns and medical camps, MAS is committed to educating its communities about health concerns through initiatives including Stretchline’s Aids Day awareness program, Asialine’ s Dengue control programs and the Aloka project by MAS Intimates on breast cancer awareness. We also conduct health programs at schools to create awareness among children. CSR at MAS has a strategic focus on supporting projects that have a long-term impact on communities around Sri Lanka; thus, supporting health and well-being was a main theme for 2016 across all SBUs located in Sri Lanka and overseas. In line with this, we have supported the upgrading of infrastructure facilities at local hospitals and healthcare centers in surrounding communities, while three of our SBUs – Synergy, Mihintale and Sleekline – have upgraded the women’s and children’s wards at their respective local hospitals. The project by Synergy, which renovated and equipped a gynecology and obstetrics ward of the Awissawella Base Hospital that is utilized by pregnant mothers, gynecological patients from the surrounding communities and employees of Synergy, was especially significant. Synergy assisted the hospital by utilizing Rs3 million to renovate the colposcopy room, isolation room, an open veranda and the washrooms, thereby providing better infrastructure for 3,000-4,000 patients annually. Awissawella Hospital before (left) and after the renovation 53 Communication On Progress 2016 Kurunegala Oncology Clinic We also helped in establishing the Oncology Clinic of the Teaching Hospital in Kurunegala, P1 working together with the Wayamba Cancer society. The Teaching Hospital is the primary hospital in the Kurunegala district, and is patronized P2 by most MAS employees belonging to Casualline, Slimline, Slimtex and Thurulie (Fabric Park), and their families, as this is the only government hospital with advanced facilities in the North-Western Province. Furthermore, according to hospital officials, around 15,000 individuals including patients and visitors visit the hospital daily, with the Oncology (Cancer Treatment) Clinic treating over 1,500 patients weekly. Laying the foundation for the oncology clinic and the opening of the same THE POWER OF WOMEN Local Connect We are proud to be called good neighbours in the cities, towns and villages where we work by sharing our resources, time and expertise. We at MAS support community improvement in areas including infrastructure development, reconciliation, healthy and active lifestyles, community recycling and education. Programs conducted by MAS address key social issues faced by the communities in which many of our employees reside, thereby helping to improve family life and health. Community-focused activities conducted by MAS include shramadhana campaigns, event sponsorships, renovation projects, health camps, eye clinics, sessions on reproductive health and family planning, awareness on domestic violence, mental well-being and physical exercise activities such as yoga, item donations to schools in the vicinity, development workshops, cash donations, and professional guidance on good financial planning and management. 54 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 P2 Donating time and money can go a long way in developing people’s lives. While helping our less fortunate and underprivileged team members, we also lend a hand to our immediate neighbours and the communities around us when there is a need or when we feel our intervention could have a significant bearing in uplifting the community. These donations have been beneficial in rebuilding lives and communities, positively affecting people and the country at large. A good example of this is the Gemunupura School Project. Situated just 2km from Shadeline in the Rideemaliyadda division in Mahiyanganaya, this school was lacking a water purification system; hence, the provision of clean drinking water became the main objective of this project. This area, which is situated in the Uva Province of Sri Lanka, is ridden with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD), and it was identified that even households did not have water purification systems, thereby contributing to ill effects on the children’s health and well-being. Utilizing Rs1 million, Shadeline provided a water purifying unit for the Gemunupura School, renovated the existing water tank, constructed a tube well, conducted a shramadhana to clean up the school premises, facilitated a water conservation awareness program for World Water Day, and conducted a health camp, a kidney clinic and related awareness programs. The project benefited over 700 children, some of who are families of our employees. As a part of its Local Connect initiatives, MAS also sponsors village level-activities focusing on health, education and infrastructure development, in addition to charity and philanthropic activities in its area of operation. Our primary focus is the direct families and communities of our own employees; and it is they themselves who identify and escalate the needs in their communities to the company, who then takes calculated measures to meet these requirements sustainably. 55 Communication On Progress 2016 P1 THE POWER P2 OFNation WOMEN Mindedness We also believe in partnering with impactful programs that have a bearing beyond the local context, such as projects that can grow and impact the nation as a whole. Pannala Smart City Pannala, where our Slimline plant is located, is on a quest to become a smart city, with Organic gardens state authorities and thought leaders in and new signage the area realizing the need to integrate under the Pannala Smart a sustainable living model and ignite a City Project behavioural change in people. In an area where some of the most basic needs are still not being met, this is an ambitious and commendable initiative. As a leading corporate in the area, with a long tradition of community engagement and sustainability, they reached out to Slimline to partner in this project by providing funding, management know-how and opportunities to up-skill young leaders in the area. As a part of a continuous journey, the first phase of the project in 2016 included four projects: facilitating access to water by investing in a tube well at the Irriyagolla Maha Vidhyalaya, providing on-site drinking water for 600 students who previously had no access to clean water while on school premises; building a maternity and children’s health centre in Kankaniyammulla, enabling access to natal and paediatric health services, and benefitting over 1,500 families in the area; providing street lighting and a CCTV camera network to ensure a safe and secure town, minimizing crime and increasing security; and introducing organic home gardens with hopes of initiating chemical-free organic farming in the future. Flood Relief in 2016 MAS has been proactively involved in disaster relief efforts targeting the communities where it is present through its own initiatives as well as at the request of the government of Sri Lanka. Ensuring the inclusion of all, in times of crisis, MAS has been a pillar of strength in communities by donating dry rations and other required items to those affected by disasters. 56 Communication On Progress 2016 In May 2016, Sri Lanka was devastated by an extreme weather event, resulting in deadly floods. All MAS SBUs launched a collective initiative to assist those affected by donating P1 essential items like water bottles, dry rations, sanitary items and household goods. Cash donations were also made to team members and communities in affected areas to help rebuild their lives after the catastrophic event. P2 6 Geographical KiLiNOCHCHi Areas & 194 Partially 21 Plants Damaged Houses Impacted BiYaGaMa tHULHiLriYa 37 Fully Damaged Houses KatUNaYaKe 2,237 MAS 594 Houses Colleagues flooded in impacted HaNWeLLa avissaWeLLa Collective efforts saw the distribution of dry rations and medicine amounting to Rs13.8 million. Apart from collecting and donating essential items, MAS colleagues were actively involved in the distribution of these items, rescue missions and medical camps held in the weeks that followed the disaster, giving their time and expertise. Additionally, playing its part as a responsible corporate citizen, MAS Intimates extended its Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA) and Social Compliance platform to Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) in order to prepare our employees and their families and communities for such natural disasters. The floods of May 2016 that affected the areas where our manufacturing plants are based reinforced the need to expedite these awareness sessions. Having worked with the Asia Pacific Alliance for Disaster Management (A-PAD) and the Consortium of Humanitarian Agencies (CHA) over the past two years helped us appreciate the importance of disaster preparedness. Thus, we are interested in creating awareness of disaster resilience among our employees and their communities, so we have a better informed workforce. Through DRR, MAS Intimates has currently trained approximately 10,884 employees. 57 Communication On Progress 2016 58 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 PRODUCTS MADE BETTER Through our pillar of ‘PRODUCTS MADE BETTER’ we mean to change how we make and what we make. We mean to ensure that our manufacturing processes minimize negative impacts and increase positive environmental impacts over time, and we want to do so while maximizing benefits to the environment and our people, and making economic sense to our business. This pillar will take on the work done by the Environmental Sustainability teams over the years and focus on sustainable manufacturing. We have identified several key areas that we believe are material to all our stakeholders and to us as a responsible business 59 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 TRANSFORMING THE INDUSTRY THROUGH INNOVATION AND PARTNERSHIPS We have understood, from the start, that the pathway to achieving our goals will have many stakeholders. Therefore, MAS aims to collaborate with our peers, partners and supply chains to give all our stakeholders the opportunity to co-create this journey together with us. In keeping with this spirit of collaboration, we have identified several key partnerships to focus on as part of our strategy. 60 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 TOOLS OF CHANGE In order to reach our ambitious goals, we realized we first needed to get our house in order. We decided to aim above and beyond the basic standards, tools and compliancerelated mechanisms that we have established over the years. We asked ourselves the question “What will it take to really make a difference in the work we do?” And the journey to seek these answers resulted in the following measures and milestones in 2016. The scope and implementation of our Environmental Management System has been continuously strengthened with ISO 14001 certification being expanded to 33 facilities, 40 facilities gaining ISO 14064 status, the development of the MAS Calibration Tool and the continued deployment of the Eco Tracker. In 2016 we introduced an environmental risk assessment tool and upgraded all versions of our current tools and mechanisms 61 Communication On Progress 2016 ECO TRACKER We refreshed our environmental Eco Tracker in 2016 and developed the new module P7 that will be integrated with the new group-wide measurement system, which includes both social and environmental indicators, and allows real-time updates as and when required. We also changed the energy intensity drivers for the Apparel Cut & Sew and P8 Apparel components for a more standardized representation of energy projects and initiatives. P9 Activity Intensity Measurement Energy Intensity Water Intensity Apparel Cut and Sew Mega Joules/Standard hour Liters/person per shift Fabric Processing Mega joules/Kg produced Liters/Kg produced Apparel Component Mega Joules/Standard hour Liters/person per shift Seamless Knitted Garments Mega joules/Kg produced Liters/Kg produced Garment Accessories NA Liters/Kg produced Foreign Facilities Mega Joules/Standard hour Not measured ISO 14064 Our greenhouse gas emissions for 2015 were independently verified by TÜV Nord according to the ISO 14064-3 standard. The company boundary encompasses Scope 1 and 2 of MAS Capital business operations in Sri Lanka only, but excludes all Scope 3 emissions. At present, 40 of our facilities in Sri Lanka are certified in ISO 14064-3:2006 with a ‘Reasonable’ level of assurance. In 2015, MAS facilities have emitted 16,176 tCO2e for Scope-1 and 78,158 tCO2e for Scope-2. Extract from the Verification Report: “In conclusion and based on the audit carried out and the GHG assertions made, TÜV UK confirms that, based on the procedures conducted, nothing has come to our attention, to a reasonable level of assurance, that causes us to believe that MAS Capital Pvt Ltd is not, in all material respects, in accordance with ISO14064-3:2006.” In its report, TUV Nord notes that MAS has carried out a substantial number of projects to-date and has further projects in the pipeline that considerably reduce its GHG emissions. The total quantity of carbon emissions, which could be offset from these projects by virtue of using solar PV, has been verified at 313 tCO2e. MAS continues to be heavily affected by the increased use of non-renewable energy sources by the National Grid and the resulting grid emissions factor, but our own emissions reduction initiatives continue to move forward with the emissions team focusing on generating our own renewable energy, securing a sustainable biomass supply and preparing the group for ISO 14064 certification for 2016. We are currently in the process of verifying our greenhouse gas emissions, and external audits will be completed by April 2017. 62 Communication On Progress 2016 OTHER STANDARDS Linea Intimo NVS and MATRIX are in the process of certification for ISO 50001: 2011 P7 Energy Management Systems. Several facilities are currently carrying out self-assessments for the Higg Index. The P8 Environmental Module 2.0 has been completed by all 13 MAS Active division facilities, while 7 Intimates facilities have completed the same. P9 MAS Intimates Casualline has also received Fair Trade certification and met Recycled Content Standards. MAS CALIBRATION TOOL V 1.2 We continue to deploy version 1.2 of the MAS Environmental Sustainability Calibration Tool, which was developed in 2014 to assess, benchmark, rate and subsequently improve the existing infrastructure at all MAS facilities. The Calibration Tool is a key milestone in our sustainability journey. This year (2016) witnessed the continuation of this assessment, which has been implemented at all operational facilities across MAS, resulting in 36 facilities passing V 1.2. MAS ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT TOOL V 1.0 For many years, we have measured the impact of our processes internally and constantly sought to improve on them. In 2016, we decided to look outward with a proactive tool called the Environmental Risk Assessment tool (ERA) to understand potential risks our presence and operations could cause to the environment, surrounding communities and our people. The ERA tool is a proactive approach that goes beyond our boundaries and is fairly unique in Sri Lanka. It was created to identify and characterize adverse risks to the immediate environment from the presence and/or operations of MAS’s manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka. The toolkit comprises two modules. The environmental module monitors solid/liquid waste, wastewater, incoming water, emissions, storage of gases and liquids, and noise. The socio-economic module identifies risks by surveying community perception by means of quantitative surveys and key informant interviews under the categories of employment opportunities, business opportunities, educational opportunities, people and community, common amenities and facilities, nature and environment, law and order, and the political environment. The results of the ERA will enable the management of each manufacturing facility to identify the source, magnitude and urgency of adverse risks specific to each facility. The toolkit was successfully launched in December 2016, with plans to make it a mandatory exercise for all Sri Lankan MAS facilities in 2017. 63 Communication On Progress 2016 CLEANCHAIN™ The MAS Chemical Management Work Stream (CMWS) partnered with ADEC P7 Innovations Solutions in 2016 to implement a Chemical Management System, ‘CleanChain™’. We are the first manufacturer to partner with ADEC, the service provider to the ZDHC program. P8 CleanChain™ is a solution designed to support chemical management and detox activities, which will allow brands, suppliers and chemical companies to share and report P9 their chemical information better. At present, we have implemented the CleanChain™ system at 4 MAS SBUs, with plan to implement a further 10 accounts by the end of February 2017. The system will cover the MAS Chemical Management Strategy in keeping with the group’s vision to be zero toxic in our products, processes and supply chains by 2025. 64 Communication On Progress 2016 CHAMPION CLIMATE ACTION ENERGY & EMISSIONS The magnitude and urgency of climate challenges have become more apparent now than ever before, and the planet is in dire need of radical measures by businesses, governments and society to remove the threat of catastrophic change that is in the near horizon. At MAS, we recognize that climate change is a real challenge to our communities, our ecology and our operations, but we also believe this is an opportunity to do what is right and make a real difference in how we operate as a business. Our strategy looks at making a net positive impact through our operations, and we intend to collaborate with both the private and public sectors to achieve this goal. We expect the same commitment and urgency of action from the government and the industry as a whole to carry out a collective and lasting vision for the future. 65 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 CARING FOR CLIMATE MAS Holdings is a signatory to Caring for Climate which aligns with our strategy to champion climate action. Launched by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in July 2007, Caring for Climate mobilizes business leaders to advance climate solutions and policies. Since the founding of Caring for Climate, participant companies have demonstrated remarkable progress in pursuing comprehensive long-term strategies that seek to align their interests with a concerted and collaborative global effort to tackle the climate challenge. By 2025, By 2025, By 2016, we will strive to achieve we want to be we generated 2.2 the highest level in generating more million kWh of energy energy efficiency by renewable energy than from our solar projects, reducing our intensities we consume in our and offset 313 tonnes by 50% operations CO2e of carbon emissions 66 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 ACTIONS IN 2016 INTENSITY Our intensity driver changed from clocked hours to standard hours for the Apparel Cut & Sew and Apparel Accessories sectors; thereby, all previously published intensities have been readjusted for these sectors. We also added 3 foreign facilities to the data collection list (2 from India, 1 from Bangladesh). 67 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 Our fabric mills have reduced energy usage by over 5% since last year. Function Intensity Intensity Intensity % Difference % Difference 2010 2015 2016 2016/2010 2016/2015 Apparel Cut 9.87 7.02 7.78 21.20% -10.73% and Sew Fabric 107.65 94.60 89.24 17.10% 5.67% Processing Apparel 81.42 35.66 36.09 55.67% -1.21% Component Seamless 145.44 127.03 132.35 9.00% -4.19% Knitted Garments Foreign 7.04 Facilities *A negative value denotes an intensity increase, while a positive value means a reduction in intensity 68 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 Linea Aqua added 255KW and installed free Solar Charging Points at its P8 SOLAR facilities for staff vehicles, as well as solar thermal SPOTLIGHT hot water systems for preP9 heating water for canteen boilers. MAS Intimates added 320KW solar panels at MDS. ENERGY-EFFIENCY MEASURES LED lights for the canteen, office areas and perimeter areas at all Intimates SBUs Efficient AC systems for Casualline, Unichela Koggala and Silueta Energy and water optimization for all ongoing expansion projects at Intimates (Silueta, Casualline, Slimtex and Thurulie) Innovation project to minimize heat loss at heat application operations at Unichela Panadura and Slimline Conversion of packaged unit AC systems to energy-efficient chiller AC systems at Shadeline, Shadowline and Contourline Conversion of T5 lights to LED lighting Improvements in boiler steam distribution systems in Mihintale and Shadowline Fabrics plants implemented LED replacement, with savings of 99,651KWh a month Fabrics plants installed steam traps, with savings of $7,000/month MFP’s Central ETP’s Biological Stage Dissolved Oxygen (DO) optimization helped the Fabric Park save energy from its large aeration blowers. The installation of variable frequency drives (VFD) to the selected motors resulted in a net saving of 28,000kWh/ month in electricity consumption and a 40kVA reduction in maximum demand. 69 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 MANAGE OUR FOOTPRINT The challenge of managing our ecological footprint is a big one as MAS continues to spread its reach both in Sri Lanka and across the world. As part of managing our footprint we will constantly seek new ways to go beyond just measuring our impact and make sure we not just do less harm but investigate how we can benefit the environment through our presence. WATER MAS continues to be a highly water-intensive operation, especially in its Fabrics facilities. Over the years, we have implemented efficiency measures, innovative solutions and infrastructure changes to reduce our water intensities, despite expanding our operations and production. Over 2011-2016, Over 2013-2016, By 2025, a 23% reduction a 9% reduction in we will drop our water intensities by 75% in liters used per KG of liters used per person through innovation, product per 10-hour shift efficiency and a series of unique projects 70 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 ACTIONS IN 2016 Despite our growing production and expanding operations, we continued our water intensity reduction across the group. The Fabrics division, one of the heaviest users of water, has achieved a 64% intensity reduction in usage from 2011 through efficiency and infrastructure improvements. Function 2011 2013 2015 2016 Base 2015/ year/2016 2016 9.87 7.02 7.78 21.20% -10.73% Apparel Cut 59.85 57.89 56.53 5.56 2.36 and Sew Fabric 250.01 251.86 182.54 87.98 64.81 51.81 Processing Apparel 135.31 79.50 80.90 40.21 -1.77 Component Seamlessly 475.93 403.93 318.68 307.61 35.37 3.47 Knitted Garments Garment 384.29 334.70 261.03 241.26 37.22 7.57 Accessories *A negative value denotes an intensity increase, while a positive value means a reduction in intensity. 71 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 MFP – Water Lab The MAS Water Lab is now in full operation, allowing us to self-evaluate our water, wastewater and industrial sludge characteristics. Around 20% of MAS facilities are currently using the lab, which will soon be able to extend full analytical spectrum for ZDHC. The MAS lab is certified by the Sri Lanka Accreditation Board (SLAB) under ISO IEC 17025:2005 and is listed by the Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka as a CEA-registered laboratory for environmental monitoring and evaluation. Stretchline achieved a 24% reduction in water usage from 2014 to-date thanks to several projects like dye washing cycle reduction at the exhaust dyeing plant, a countercurrent system for the continuous dyeing machine and efficient water fittings with foot pedal operators across all facilities. 72 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 In 2016, Linea Aqua implemented a wastewater recycling project using an WATER Advanced Membrane System for 1,500 P8 SPOTLIGHT cubic meters a month. Linea Aqua has committed to treat P9 their wastewater beyond regulatory limits and to re-cycle the water after final treatment back to their cooling towers. Linea Aqua became Water Neutral in 2016 by safely returning to their communities and nature an amount of water equal to what it used in its manufacturing process. Saving 57,000 liters per day All 13 MAS Active plants have 100% sub-metering and continuous monitoring Water-efficient dye machines installed at Linea Intimo Dishwashers for canteens at Shadeline and Leisureline Water-saving faucets installed at MDS, UPL and Rapid. Touch taps installed at all Fabrics plants. Water-efficient fittings at all Active SBUs The crystal clear dye bath at Linea Intimo was expanded to Noyon Lanka and Prym Intimates, reducing dye consumption by 15% and water consumption by 40-50% Rain water harvesting systems were installed at Casualline, LAITC and Nirmaana, while all Fabrics plants began using rain water harvesting for polythene washing Treated waste water used for gardening at Asialine and Contourline Drip irrigation initiated at UPL, Thurulie, LI and MDS The MAS Fabric Park contributes 23% to our total water supply through a dedicated water intake and treatment plant in Thulhiriya. In 2016, the Fabric Park’s overall water savings totaled 30,000 cubic meters. 73 Communication On Progress 2016 CHEMICALS P7 We have identified responsible chemical management as a key focus of our sustainability plan, and becoming part of the ZDHC program is one more step towards creating a non-toxic future. P8 P9 By 2025, CLEANCHAIN™ We are also the ZDHC we will be zero-toxic in first manufacturer In 2016, MAS became our products, processes to implement the first Sri Lankan and supply chains CleanChain™ as a company to become part of our chemical value chain affiliates of management and detox the ZDHC road map. activities 74 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 “I am proud to announce our affiliation with the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) program. Becoming a value chain affiliate member of ZDHC marks a key milestone in this journey where MAS has made a clear commitment to drive real change in our sphere of influence and support the ZDHC group and our partners to remove hazardous chemicals from all textile production by 2020. Our ZDHC commitment is simply one part of our overall strategy and the pillars that make our core – Innovation, Sustainability and Collaboration. We are determined to work with all we influence in this journey to innovate alternatives that are safer, more efficient and do no harm to the environment and our communities. We hope more peers and partners will join us in this quest to create a non-toxic future that we must all urgently work towards as a collective vision.” Mahesh Amalean Chairman & MD, MAS Holdings WE JUST TOOK ONE GIANT STEP CLOSER TO A ZERO TOXIC FUTURE 75 Communication On Progress 2016 ACTIONS IN 2016 P7 ZDHC membership In December 2016, MAS became the second global textile manufacturer and the first Sri Lankan company to become a value chain affiliate of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous P8 Chemicals (ZDHC) group, as it works to move the industry towards a goal of zero discharge of harmful chemicals to the environment by 2020. P9 The new partnership makes way for both MAS and ZDHC to create positive impacts across the group’s value chain and is aligned with our own sustainability strategy. Non-process chemicals MAS is among the first textile organizations to have expanded the scope of MRSL compliance towards non-process chemicals including cleaning chemicals, maintenance chemicals, etc. and we have currently substituted safer chemicals for the cleaning chemicals segment. Since 2015, the group has been working with its supply chains including chemical suppliers and sub-contractors to achieve its goal by helping to detox those entities as well. CleanChain™ Since 2014, MAS SBUs managed their chemical inventories and processes through a manual system. In 2016, we took a leap forward to improve both the efficiency and transparency of our chemical management process by becoming the first manufacturer to partner with ADEC to implement the ‘CleanChain™’ system. ADEC is the service provider to the ZDHC program, which makes it easier to share our processes between SBUs, as well as with our customers. CLEANCHAIN™ AT A GLANCE The solution to support chemical management and detox activities Avoids the complexity of purchasing and managing chemicals Will be implemented at 14 MAS SBUs in 2017 76 Communication On Progress 2016 ZDHC benchmarking and improvements MAS CMWS has clearly-set goals to eliminate 11 priority chemical groups by 2020 P7 (within MAS, by 2018). In 2016, we benchmarked our progression by conducting chemical assessments, waste water testing and random chemical testing. We also actively implemented the MAS Chemical Management Policy to control hazardous chemicals at P8 our SBUs. Calibration Tool Chemical Assessment and Customer Assessments P9 Through Calibration Tool Chemical Assessments, we provide a foundation for our SBUs to improve its chemical management practices. The MAS Fabrics division successfully passed the Limited Brands chemical assessment. Alternative assessments The CMWS follows a systematic approach to replace hazardous chemicals. Using this methodology, we were able to replace chemicals containing APEOs, Phthalates, etc. Innovations In 2016, the CMWS developed a method to filter ‘Phthalates’ in our incoming water, thus ensuring safer drinking water for our people. We have also actively engaged with chemical leasing projects, dye chemical rationalization, the implementation of crystal clear dyeing and dye chemical reduction. MATERIALS Sustainable sourcing of raw materials remains the most challenging piece of our strategy as we seek to influence our supply chain to become aligned with cradle-to-grave thinking. We are taking a multi-pronged, phased-out approach to this goal by first getting our own house in order and improving our own manufacturing practices, then gradually moving into more sustainable raw materials. By 2017, we will actively begin to influence our supply chain by getting our suppliers on the Higg Index, while we By 2025, as MAS also report on the Higg Index to our brands. all our raw materials As part of our continued Eco Product journey, in 2016, will be from sustainable MAS Active used 4 million yards of recycled polyester and sourcing partners 600,000 yards of organic cotton. MAS Intimates continued its product lines from OCS organic cotton and BCI cotton, as well as recycled polyester and nylon yarn. 77 Communication On Progress 2016 WASTE P7 While recognizing waste as a key industrial and operational challenge, MAS continues to seek solutions for all identified waste types at our facilities, with the overall goal of repurposing and value enhancing our waste. The waste action plan for 2016 included P8 identifying and segregating our waste better as we work towards the larger goal of value enhancement by 2025. P9 By 2025, all our waste will be value enhanced or upcycled as either raw material or new products By 2016, we implemented our first Intrapreneurship program to innovate solutions for Fabric Waste By 2016, we diverted over 2,600 metric tonnes of waste from landfills 78 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 ACTIONS IN 2016 Overall, we continued to improve the traceability of waste disposal and the accuracy of P9 our waste measurements. Stricter regulations in China caused a majority of our recyclers to limit their local operations, affecting our waste disposal negatively. However, despite being forced to increase our waste-to-landfill component, we increased our investments in energy recovery options and diverted 2,610 metric tonnes of waste from landfill in 2016. Waste Projects In 2016, we launched a group-wide waste management guidebook with a list of evaluated vendors. We also joined with an industry partner to explore the option of converting our fabric waste to marketable products. Divisionally, MAS Intimates has begun pilot projects with two local universities to seek solutions for fabric off-cuts and foam waste, as well as initiating trials with a Belgian company to make junction boxes from foam and fabric waste. 79 Communication On Progress 2016 BE DRASTIC, CUT PLASTIC MDS Nature Club Intimate for Nature initiated a campaign to reduce the use of P7 plastic at MDS, and succeeded in preventing over 6,000 single-use plastic cups going into landfills every month. Follow the campaign on Facebook at https://www.facebook. com/be.drastic.cut.plastic/ P8 P9 MDS launched an aggressive and well-planned plastic reduction campaign in September 2016, and eradicated 6,000 single-use plastic cups per month. MDS introduced the following solutions: •• Glass bottles and mugs for personal use •• Bring-your-own mug when purchasing beverages •• A sale of reusable bags, cutlery and containers •• Banned styrofoam, PET and polythene bags •• Awareness workshops for food and beverage providers and employees 80 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 TransTextile Higher Value Innovation for Post-Production Textile Waste in Sri Lanka P8 MAS has been the major partner of the TransTextile project run by the Centre for Industrial Sustainability, University of Cambridge (funded by the UK Research Council’s Global Challenge Research Fund). This interdisciplinary international collaborative project P9 investigated higher-value innovation opportunities for post-production textile waste in Sri Lanka in collaboration with the country’s top engineering/design universities, the garment industry and several NGOs. Five new innovation routes were successfully identified, and further development plans are in progress. MAS Impact Intrapreneurship Program In 2016, MAS partnered with Circle of Impact to offer a pioneering educational experience that was experiential, immersive and the first-ever intrapreneurship program for the group. The goal of the program was to find innovative solutions that are sustainable and profitable for the fabric waste challenge. Ten applicants were selected from across MAS through an open email application process. After a 3-day expedition, the applicants were put through a rigorous build phase that lasted over 6 months, with guidance provided on building a business plan and taking their idea directly to the MAS Capital board. In November 2016, the teams presented their solutions as a no-nonsense business plan, with a possible prototype or pilot on how they intend to make it work, and were approved for funding by the MAS Capital board. 81 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 WASTE SPOTLIGHT P9 MAS TEXTILE SLUDGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM In 2016, we continued to enhance our sludge management program by improving our sludge-to-brick operation in Thulhiriya and fully implementing our solar sludge drying operation in Biyagama. We reduced our total wet sludge quantity of 1,950 metric tons to 700 tons of dry sludge granules to be used as a co-processing fuel for energy recovery. The sludge drying process is 95% energized by the sun and optimum ventilation controls. The operation is run inside our solar dryer in Biyagama, which is complete with climate sensors, programmable logic controllers (PLCs), and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) solutions, as well as CRISH, a fully automated robot that turns and mixes the sludge in a 10,000 square foot area. Wet Sludge Generation @ MFP & BEP 1,950 Tons (@ 75% Moisture Content) Evaporation via Solar Energy 1,250 Tons of Water Vapor Sent to Geo-cycle 475 Tons Underwent MFP-Eco Brick Process 150 Tons Work in Progress (WIP in both locations) 75 Tons No of MAS Eco Bricks Produced 120,000 4x4 Eco blocks. 82 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 SUPPORT A THRIVING PLANET BIO DIVERSITY Our goal is to restore and rehabilitate 100 times the By 2025, habitat lost through the physical operational footprint we will restore habitats of MAS measured by the total area of our built space. in 100 times the space A 1:100 habitat restoration plan will aim to reforest we currently occupy and repair the damage, as well as put in place effective eco system management practices to ensure long-term conservation of the restored areas. The land acquired and built on by MAS was a climax forest in the past. The land has subsequently been degraded and used for development activities. Deforestation continues to this day and is a major loss to Sri Lanka. By 2016, MAS currently operates on 250 acres of land in Sri Lanka, we began scoping our and hope to forest 250 acres of land in 2017 to offset current projects to this. In the long run, we hope to offset 100 times more reach the 1:1 goal we than our current operation. This is due to the fact that had set for 2017 we have impacted more than just the area where our facilities are located. 83 Communication On Progress 2016 ACTIONS IN 2016 P7 Division Facility Project Name Status Area in Acres Active Division Wakarai forest Ongoing 5 P8 restoration Bodyline BPL1 Wanagomuwa Ongoing 0.5 restoration P9 Prym Intimates Prym Kantale forest Completed 8.5 Intimates restoration Sri Lanka Linea Aqua Linea Aqua Hiniduma Completed 3 Hanwella conservation MAS MAS Fabric Thuruwadula Completed 12 Investments Park analog forest Intimates Division M&S biolink Completed 27 restoration Fabrics Textprint Koskele water Ongoing 1 catchment rehabilitation Total 57 A few of our divisions have already commenced this journey, and have been successful in restoring and updating their current projects. BIO DIVERSITY PROJECTS KOS KELE WATER CATCHMENT PROTECTION Textprint brought together the villagers of Thulhiriya and the Peter Duncan Foundation team for a tree planting project with a difference – this was the result of true collaboration for good. Their goal is to save the 5 remaining water springs in the area. The teams worked to plant 500 saplings in Kos Kele, specially chosen for its ability to protect water catchment areas 84 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 BIO DIVERSITY SPOTLIGHT P9 ABOVE LEFT: The removal of two invasive alien species, Prosophis juliflora (Kalapu Andara) and Cactii, and clearing of 280 hectares at Bundala by Linea Aqua ABOVE RIGHT: Linea Aqua’s Ex-situ Biodiversity Conservation, where about 240 new endemic and native trees were grown in 2016. Linea Aqua has already completed the 1:1 habitat restoration goal for 2017 through their work in 2016. However, the Linea Aqua nature club has committed to go above and beyond the goal by refreshing their projects for 2017, and are looking to restore, reforest and conserve in an area equal to what is occupied by their facilities by the end of 2017. BELOW: Hiniduma Bio-Link Project 85 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 MAS Intimates continued to grow the Linea Forest on a two acre land in the P8 BOI Zone, and maintained technical support for the ‘Thuruwadula” analog forest, which has expanded to 12 acres P9 and is now managed by MAS Fabric Park. MAS Intimates 250 trees were planted in the WoD and Biyagama BOI Zone ATTIDIYA WILDLIFE RESCUE CENTRE MAS Intimates supported setting up the Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre in Attidiya by the Department of Wildlife Conservation. The Centre treats 20-30 wild animals per week. MAS Intimates continues to give technical, financial and management support for continued operations. 86 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 BUTTERFLY GARDENS At present, we have five butterfly gardens P8 growing at our facilities at Linea Intimo, and the four Intimates facilities in Unichela Panadura, Linea Clothing, Casualline and P9 Koggala. ORGANIC HOME GARDENING We have expanded our organic gardens across all divisions, with a total of 6 new projects in 2016 and 2 ongoing projects at MAS Active and MAS Fabrics. MAS Intimates has initiated organic gardening projects at six plants – Thurulie, Linea Intimates, Unichela Biyagama and Panadura, MDS, and Slimline. MAS Intimates began a unique training program on organic home gardening to train employees at all levels. The training covered the following topics: •• Different gardening models focusing on urban home gardening •• Soil restorative agriculture built on traditional agricultural methods and knowledge •• Organic produce offered to employees 87 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 EMPLOYEE & COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT MAS Active conducted 84 programs during 2016 to engage all levels of employees and 38 more to engage communities, which included Good Market sessions at its operations center to introduce the Farmer’s Market concept to its staff. InterSBU drama and debate competitions and divisional poster competitions for children of employees were also held in 2016. BEYOND EARTH HOUR – ENGAGEMENT FOR GRASSROOTS CLIMATE ACTION Casualline partnered with the BOI zone, community leaders, schools, dhamma schools, businesses and villages to take action against climate change. Activities such as debates between 32 dhamma schools, and street drama and songs competitions between 10 schools were initiated to increase knowledge and awareness (over 570 students participated in these programs). Long-term activities such as the collection of burnt light bulbs for recycling and an electricity bill reduction campaign were also implemented. The initiative engaged 20,000+ people (including 6,700 students), and the whole of Mawathagama town participated by turning off all lights during Earth Hour. 88 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 Linea Aqua conducted several projects including a polythene cleaning project at Sri Pada and Yala National Park, and a Water Hyacinth Removal at Polonnaruwa | The Linea Aqua Nature Club also introduced and distributed cloth bags among visitors to Kumana National Park. Panadura Beach Clean-up UPL 89 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 P8 P9 A divisional-level debate competition was organized in order to engage employees in knowledge sharing. Slimline embarked on a long-term partnership with their community leaders to build a Green City in Pannala. Individual plants carried out their own initiatives for Earth Hour, World Water Day and World Environment Day. Campaigned for Clean Energy in Sri Lanka Stretchline conducted two key plant sistribution projects at Ovitigama Bodhiraja School (100 plants) and to 65 villagers in the Pradeepagama area 90 Communication On Progress 2016 P7 AWARDS & RECOGNITION P8 P9 Throughout 2016, MAS divisions were able to achieve several key awards for their sustainability efforts. Months of hardwork and stringent audits paid off as 8 MAS facilities walked away with all Apparel and Textile awards (except one) at the Presidential Green Awards held in October 2016. National Green Awards 2016 MAS ACTIVE LINEA INTIMO GOLD AWARD Textile & Textile Processing Industries MAS ACTIVE NIRMAANA SILVER AWARD Apparel Manufacturing Industries MAS FABRICS MATRIX SILVER AWARD Textile & Textile Processing Industries TEXTPRINT LANKA BRONZE AWARD Textile & Textile Processing Industries LINEA AQUA – BRONZE AWARD Apparel Sector MAS ACTIVE SHADELINE MERIT AWARD Apparel Manufacturing Industries MAS ACTIVE ASIALINE MERIT AWARD Apparel Manufacturing Industries National Energy Efficiency Awards 2016 MAS ACTIVE NIRMAANA SILVER AWARD Large Scale Industries MAS ACTIVE LINEA INTIMO MERIT AWARD Large Scale Industries 91 Communication On Progress 2016 THE POWER OF WOMEN Appendices 92 Communication On Progress 2016 APPENDIX 1 POWER OF WOMEN Diversity – WGB Career Advancement 1. Career Advancement •• English classes •• Certificate in Computer •• Counselling sessions •• Sign language training •• Motivational training •• Time and stress management in the workplace •• Science of Relationships •• Conflict resolution in the workplace •• Awareness program on the importance of your career •• Personal Grooming, Hygiene and Business Etiquette •• Speech Craft Club •• Female cutter training •• Technician development program •• Female electrician training •• Female mechanic training •• Soft skills development training for team leaders/group leaders •• Meditation program •• Training program for GO Beyond Sisters Healthy Mind & Healthy Body •• Lean awareness sessions •• Awareness on big data analytics •• Awareness on basic quality process •• Awareness on basic incentive process •• Fire training for firefighters •• Awareness session on MAS Operating System •• Diploma in English for Empowered Woman of the Year winners •• Go Beyond champions rRetreat •• Empowered Women alumni Forum •• Leadership training for Empowered Woman of the Year winners 2. Work-Life Balance •• International Women’s Day celebrations •• Family planning training •• Pregnant mothers program •• Teenage pregnancy •• Breast cancer awareness campaign •• Stress management program •• Awareness session on ‘Domestic violence, sexual violence and child protection’ •• ‘Health & Wellness’ Free medical check -up •• Mental health program •• Legal camp •• Dignity of Motherhood •• 5S implementation in the kitchen Model kitchen awareness session •• Awareness session on the day to commemorate International Non-Smoking Day and Anti-Drug Day •• Awareness session on non-communicable diseases •• Medical exhibition •• HIV awareness program •• Marital and pre-marital program •• Blood donation camp •• Importance of Parenthood •• Financial management awareness session •• Positive thinking •• Disaster risk reduction program •• How to Avoid Accidents and How to Manage Stressful Situations •• Work-life balance program to reduce absenteeism •• Yoga session •• Dental clinic •• Eye clinic •• Skin clinic •• Ayurvedic clinic •• Balance diet awareness program •• Awareness session on ISO 14001 •• Environmental Protection and Green Credit concept 3. Skills Development •• Net course •• Swimming training •• Compeering training •• Singing training •• Modelling training •• Fixed Focus: Photography as an Alternative Career Path •• Zumba •• Self defense •• Creativity improvement •• Beauty culture training •• Team leader development program •• Tailoring course •• Team building activity (for team members below three months) •• Jewellery making workshop •• ‘Be an Author’ Workshop for writers •• Voice training •• Counselling training for HR •• Work shop for drama and theater 4. Rewarding Excellence •• Art competition on life story •• Abhinandani semi-final/grand finale •• Social Dialogue Excellence Award Ceremony •• Mother’s Day celebration •• Godmother awarding •• Rewarding Kaizen contributors APPENDIX 2 THRIVING COMMUNITIES Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Education UPL Koggala Supporting the education Children of of employees’ children employees Education/ Silueta Presentation skills Biyagama and 25 O/L & A/L selected Capacity surrounding area students Building Education/ Linea Intimo Built a library and donated Students of Capacity books to the Palpita Palpita Kanishta Building Kanishta Vidyalaya Vidyalaya Education/ Linea Intimo Books and other relevant Capacity reading material were Building donated to the library at the Viharamahadevi Child Development Center Education/ Textprint Seminar for Grade 5 Thulhiriya School children Capacity Lanka students at Thulhiriya including Building Primary School based on Textprint TMs’ Scholarship Examination children Education/ MAS Fabrics Thulhirya National School Thulhiriya Local community Capacity Matrix – Establishing the English and employees Building Unit Education/ Asialine Seminar organised for Capacity (Active) Grade 05 scholarship Building students Education/ Contourline Counselling session for Capacity (Active) university psychological Building students Education/ Contourline Environmental sustainabilty 40 Students of Capacity (Active) awareness program for 40 Sabaragamuwa Building students of Sabaragamuwa University University Education/ Contourline Environment Day Capacity (Active) celebration at Kengalla Building Primary School with Forest Department Education/ Contourline 5S awareness session of Capacity (Active) the Sabaragamu University Building team and Galabodawatta School Education/ Leisureline Donated a dictionary to Ja-ela Capacity (Active) the student who got best Building results at the scholarship exam in Grade 5 from Udammita Maha Viyalaya Education/ LC/LI World Water Day Program 200 Primary school Capacity Mahawatte MMV by students building National Water Supply & Drainage Board Art/Essay competition Rajawella Tamil School & Mahawatte MMV Education/ Slimline Scholarship to Dulari Pannala 1 TM’s daughter Capacity Dineshika building Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Education/ Slimline Scholarship Seminar Employees’ Capacity Program Guidance and children and building motivation for employees’ students from children and students from surrounding surrounding schools for schools the grade 5 scholarship examination Education/ Slimline Leadership program for 45 School students Capacity Puttalam/Mahi Vidalia building Education/ Slimtex Supporting Grade 5 200 Grade 5 students, Capacity students to improve their students schools in the building knowledge to pass the area and children scholarship of MAS Slimtex employees Education/ Thurulie Support to organize Warakapola 450 O/L students and Capacity Guru Harasara Pranama Principal building in Warakapola area for GCE(OL) students Education/ UPL Sign language training: Panadura 20 People from Capacity Panadura This program was delivered recruitment , HR, building to employees in order to payroll, medical, educate them on how to TR instructors and communicate among deaf team members and dumb employees. The program was conducted by Mr Kelum Senevirathna Education/ UPL Grade 5 seminar as preUPL Panadura 1,100 Grade 05 Capacity Panadura preparation for the Grade students building 5 scholarship exam. The program was conducted by Kumaradasa Abeyrathna. Education/ UPL A/L seminar by Mr Ranil Panadura 300 A/L students Capacity Panadura Sugathadasa building Education/ Stretchline Grade 5 scholarship seminar Stretchline premises Children of Capacity to increase the pass rate employees building Education/ Linea Intimo Seminar for grade 5 Capacity scholarship students at building the CDC conducted by J. P Wijenayake, a lecturer in a school in Biyagama Education/ Casualline 5S project with Pothubova Kurunegala 100 Students from Capacity National School and students Pothubova building Hatharaliyadda MMV National School and Hatharaliyadda MMV Education/ Casualline Sisu Waruna Internal Kurunegala district 2 Children of Capacity Scholarship Program 2016 employees in building the Kurunegala district Education/ LC/LI School Prefect Leadership Kandy district 140 Students from Capacity Program Kandy (3 schools) building and Wattegama Zone (6 schools) Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Education/ LC/LI Grade 5 scholarship seminar Kandy district 450 Grade 5 students Capacity building Education/ LC/LI Prefect Leadership Kandy and Wattegama 130 School prefects Capacity program conducted Zone building by Doctor Chaminda Weerasiriwardana Education/ LC/LI Grade 5 scholarship seminar Kandy district 400 Grade 5 Capacity by Mr. Kumaradasa scholarship building students Education/ MDS Leadership development Ratmalana 300 School prefects Capacity program building Education/ MDS How to prepare for exams 162 O/L & A/L Capacity & study without stress by students building Dr. Ranil Sugathadasa Education/ Shadeline Organized a leadership Capacity program for Mahagama building School grade 9-13 students Education/ Shadeline Organized a Grade 5 Mahiyanganaya and Capacity scholarship program for Rideemaliyadda divisions building students in Mahiyanganaya and Rideemaliyadda education divisions Education/ Shadeline Organized a children’s Rideemaliyadda division Capacity day program with building Rideemaliyadda Pradeshiya Sabha and donated books to the children who participated Education/ Synergy Provided financial aid for Donation children of our employees as a support for their education Education/ Operations Donated used computers Gampha Udugampola Donation Center and electric typewriters to (Active) the computer lab in the Weegoda Maha Vidayalaya Education/ MDS Book donation for students 150 School students Donation of low-income families Education/ LC/LI Sisu Waruna Internal 4 Employees Donation Scholarship program. working at the Donation of Rs4,000 for 2 plant students who did O/L exams in 2014/15 Education/ Leisureline Donated exercise books Donation (Active) for students who got more than 100 marks from the Grade 5 scholarship exam Education/ Textprint Donation to the Institute of Students of the Donation Lanka Chemistry institute Education/ Slimline Book donation for Sri 180 Dhamma school Donation Saranapala Dhamma School students Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Education/ Slimtex Donating practice Ihala Diyadora 71 Students of Donation mathematics books students Kuliyapitiya and English past-paper Dhammarathana books for Kuliyapitiya School (Grade Dhammarathana School 6-11) Education/ Shadeline Donated a multimedia Donation projector for Land Ministry education unit Education/ Shadeline Donated books for Mahiyanganaya Donation provincial educational office in Mahiyanganaya Education/ Shadeline Donated books to Medayaya Donation Medayaya school library and students from lowincome families Education/ Shadeline Donated leaflets and books, Donation and t-shirts to health education unit in Urania Hospital Education/ Slimtex Outbound training for Kuliyapitiya 60 Students and Health EGB school Kuliyapitiya students teachers Yakarawatta School and 6 and Kuliyapitiya teachers Dhammarathana School Education/ Asialine Donated books and colour Katuwana Infrastructure (Active) pencils for the Katuwana Singithi Pera Pasala Health LC/LI Health camp Danture 200 Residents of the Danture village Health MDS Blood donation campaign Ratmalana 124 Employees Health MDS Kidney donation awareness Ratmalana 100 Employees campaign Health Unichela ‘Say No to Breast Cancer’ Gampaha 50 Women from Biyagama Aloka project by in-house around the nurses at Methsarana Gampaha district from the Sanasa, samurdhi and Methsarana committees Health Stretchline Blood donation campaign Stretchline premises Health Stretchline AIDS Day Awareness Stretchline premises Emloyees of Program Creating Stretchline awareness about HIV AIDS, how to prevent the disease and how to treat to AIDS patients Health Linea Aqua An elders’ medical camp to help maintain their health and link them with government hospitals Health Linea Aqua Medical camp after the floods to protect the people against sicknesses Health Linea Aqua Well cleaning after the floods, to protect people’s health Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Health Linea Intimo Blood donation camp at NVS Health Linea Intimo Linea Intimo, together Victims of the with other SBUs in the floods zone, conducted a medical camp where medicine was donated free of charge and a doctor was available for those who were affected by the floods Health Linea Intimo Gave kola kanda to Biyagama pregnant ladies who visited the job bank Health Linea Intimo The Medicare Biyagama Biyagama Employees of doctor was brought down Intimo to the plant to carry out free checkups for members of the staff Health Linea Intimo An free ENT Clinic was organized for team members of Intimo Health Noyon Health camp for flood Yabaraluwa, Malwana, Flood victims Lanka victims and surrounding Mapitigama, Kelaniya and surrounding villagers villagers Health Akshaya Distributed mosquito coils Yeruru village People of Yeruru (Active) for Yeruru village village Health Akshaya Medical camp at a school (Active) Health Akshaya Health activity at school (Active) premises: clean-up and providing bleaching powder Health Akshaya Blood donation camp Chillakur Mandal (Active) at Chillakuru Mandal conducted by the police station officials Health Akshaya Participated in “Nellore 5K Nellore (Active) Run” for Cancer awareness Health Asialine Organized a medical clinic (Active) at Middeniya Temple Health Asialine Collected water and biscuits (Active) for flood relief Health Asialine Organized a medical clinic Katuwana (Active) at Katuwana MOH office Health Asialine Conducted Dengue control Middenika (Active) program in Middenika town Health Contourline Yoga program for Haguranketha (Active) Gramasewaka officers in Haguranketha Health Contourline Distributed medicinal Dambarawa (Active) plants to Dambarawa and Athragalla school students for gardening Nation Contourline Sripada reservation area mindedness (Active) cleaning program Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Health Vidiyal Mobile service provided 660 Employees and by the medical team from their families the Kilinochchi district NIC dept, gramasevaka from Karaichchi pradesa saba, legal, police, banks and finance company officers in one location (Vidiyal Premises) Health LC/LI Giving king coconut for Kandy 400 Patients coming patients who came for from all areas of Cancer treatment to the the country Kandy General Hospital. Requested employees to contribute Rs50 to purchase king coconuts Health Contourline Distributed first aid boxes (Active) for schools Health/ Shadowline Conducted a mental Maharagama Capacity wellbeing program for building the children’s ward of the Maharagama Cancer Hospital Health/ Slimtex MAS DRR Awareness Kuliyapitya 850 All employees Capacity Session at MAS Slimtex/ building schools / government officers from UC/ AG office Health/ Asialine Conducted awareness Capacity (Active) program about public building health for all vehicle drivers Health/ Asialine Conducted a health Capacity (Active) program at the building Thorakolayaya Maha Vidyalaya Health/ Asialine Awareness program of Capacity (Active) public health by PHI building Health/ Linea Intimo Mrs Hemamali Wijesuriya, 40 Capacity a senior lawyer from the building Gampaha Magistrate, conducted a program where legal advise on relationships was provided for team members from the training school Health/ Akshaya Awareness Program on Capacity (Active) Communicable Diseases building Health/ Akshaya Personal hygiene and health Kothapalem Students of Capacity (Active) awareness program at Kothapalem building Kothapalem Primary School Primary School Health/ Akshaya Conducted health & Momidi Students of Capacity (Active) hygiene awareness program Momidi Primary building at Momidi Primary School School Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Health/ Linea Intimo A hygiene workshop Biyagama Capacity was conducted by Dr. Building Godagamuwa of the Biyagama Medicare at the Viharamahadevi Children’s home Health/ Akshaya Education and health Ballavolu Primary School Students of Capacity (Active) awareness program at Ballavolu Primary Building Ballavolu Primary School School Health/ Akshaya Education and health Eruru Primary School Students of Eruru Capacity (Active) awareness program at Primary School Building Eruru Primary School Health/ Akshaya Education and health Chillakur Orphanage Children at Capacity (Active) awareness program at Center the Chillakur Building Chillakur Orphanage Center Orphanage Center Health/ Contourline Awareness session on oral Capacity (Active) health for Mahawatta Building School students Health/ Linea Intimo Hygiene and Wellness Capacity workshop for the matrons building of Metta Health/ LC/LI Eye donation campaign Kandy district 500 All employees Capacity Awareness/To sign building promissory notes with the Sri Lanka Eye Society Health/ MDS Super 8 awareness session Ratmalana 250 Employees Capacity building Health/ Silueta OBT program for 100 Senior and Capacity Sapugaskanda Vishaka junior prefects of building Balika Vidyalaya Sapugaskanda Vishaka Balika Vidyalaya Health/ Vidiyal Basic maintenance and 5S Jaffna Hospital patients Capacity implementation by 6S team and staff building in Thellipalai Hospital Health/ Vidiyal Dental awareness program Therankandal M.V 112 School students Capacity conducted by Dr Elilvel building Health/ Stretchline Eco Go Beyond session to Mandawala Maha Students Capacity inspire students to be eco vidyalaya & Ovitigama building friendly Bodhiraja Vidyalaya Health/ Linea Intimo The Ergonomics Team Employees of Capacity is conducting a workIntimo building in-progress project on “Ergonomics in the workplace” to promote healthy lifestyle patterns. There was also a quiz organized to create awareness among employees Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Health/ Linea Intimo An awareness program was CDC Capacity conducted on childhood building developmental disorders for the teachers at CDC. Health/ Linea Intimo Hygiene and wellness Intimo premises Capacity workshop building Health/ Operations Conducted a blood Capacity Center donation program building (Active) Health/ Nirmaana Conducted the health and Capacity safety audit at the Leonard building Cheshire Disability Home Health/ Synergy Donated cash to several Donation employees whose faimly members were ill Health/ Shadowline Donated sanitary items Negombo Donation and cotton walls to the Negombo General hospital Health/ Linea Intimo A cash donation was made Donation to an employee of Silueta whose brother is suffering from Cancer Health/ Linea Intimo Donation of medicine and Sheela Suhara Bhikshu Patients at Sheela Donation dry rations to Sheela Suhara Hospital Suhara Bhikshu Bhikshu Hospital Hospital Health/ Asialine Donation Rs1,000 for a Donation (Active) Dengue program Health/ Slimtex Donating dry rations for 115 Children and Donation 2 children’s homes & an children elders elders home and 50 adults Health/ Operations Donated medical AID and Pitakotte Donation Center other immediate necessary (Active) items to the Meth Sewana Home for differently abled people Health/ Operations Donated medical AID and Piliyandala Donation Center other immediate necessary (Active) items to the ‘Mallika home for elderly’ Health/ Operations Donated medical AID and Narahenpita Donation Center other immediate necessary (Active) items to the Shilpa children’s development Centre Health/ Operations Donated medical AID and Donation Center other immediate necessary (Active) items like 500 lunch packets/water bottles and biscuits for flood victims Health/ Operations Donated medical AID for Borella Donation Center the Sarvodaya Children’s (Active) Development Centre Health/ Operations Donated medicine for the Homagama Donation Center Irasha Elders’ home at (Active) Madapatha Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Health/ Operations Donated medicine for the Kelaniya Donation Center Grandville Wickremaratne (Active) Children’s Development Centre in Gonawala Health/ Shadeline Sponsored medical items Kegalle and Awissawella Donation for flood refugees in the Kegalle district, and Awissawella area, etc Health/ Slimline Milk packet (200) donation Katugampola 200 All those that Donation for Katugampola national participated from library blood donation that village program Health/ Slimline Donating white canes for 50 Visually impaired Donation international white cane individuals day Health/ Linea Aqua Contribution for Navodya Special needs Donation Children’s Foundation children of the Foundation Health/ Linea Intimo Donating drugs to the National Cancer Institute Less-fortunate Donation National Cancer Institute patients of the for the many poor patients National Cancer who require medicine Institute Health/ Asialine Donated Rs15,000 to Katuwana Donation (Active) Katuwana Base Hospital to repair the blood testing machine Health/ Contourline Distributed medicine and Donation (Active) dry foods to flood victims Health/ Central Team CWH donated Donation Warehouse Rs25,000 by way of (Active) advertisement to the Cancer Care Association of Sri Lanka Health/ Leisureline Donated medicine and dry Donation (Active) rations to a heart patient who works at janitorial service Health/ Leisureline Donated first aid items and Katunayaka Donation (Active) paints to Katunayaka police station Health/ Vidiyal Donating dental medicine Piramanthanaru 119 Piramanthanaru Donation support, and conducted an community community awareness program by Dr members Manivannan and Dr Elilvel Health/ Vidiyal Donating dental equipment Vidiyal Vidiyal employees Donation to the dental division of Kilinochchi hospital Health/ Contourline All executives and managers Pallekelle Environment (Active) did a polythene cleaning project at the BOI zone Health/ Linea Intimo An awareness session on Dekatana Students of Environment environmental conservation Dekatana Primary and waste segregation was School held for the children of Dekatana Primary School. A tree planting project was also launched on the same day Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Health/ Casualline Building the Cancer Clinic Kurunegala All residents of Infrastructure at the Kurunegala Teaching the Kurunegala Hospital district Health/ Casualline Mawathagama Hospital Mawathagama To reach Infrastructure renovation out to the Mawathagama community and visitors to the hospital Health/ LC/LI Donated a water tank Abimansala Kurunegala 200 To motivate Infrastructure with relevant equipment, disabled soldiers followed by a musical event comprising a classical musical session Health/ UPL Upgrading infrastructure in Kethumathi Hospital All pregnant Infrastructure Panadura ward 2 of the Kethumathi women visiting Hospital the hospital Health/ Stretchline Built up an area at Biyagama Base Hospital Patients of the Infrastructure Biyagama Base Hospital to hospital have a rest/meal for staff at the hospital, patients and visitors Local connect UPL Provide assistance in Pregnant women Panadura printing investigation forms visiting the for Kethumathi Hospital hospital daily clinic Local connect UPL Koggala Connect with school School students branding MAS Local connect UPL Koggala Branding MAS Unichela School students name and prefects Local Connect Noyon Sharmadana campaign for Anuradhapura Pilgrims and Lanka cleaning oil lamps hut near villagers Anuradhapura Ruwan weli Maha seya Local Connect Noyon Sharmadana campaign for Anuradhapura Pilgrims and Lanka Dompe temple to clean the villagers stupa Local Connect Leisureline Donated essential items (Active) for Arachchciwatta and Saurdihama gramaniladaries Local Connect Slimtex Sponsorship for Colours Pannala Schools and Awarding Ceremony of students receiving Pannala National School awards Local Connect Slimtex Distribution of plants to Kuliyapitiya 1,300 Students students Dhammarathana School , Kuliyapitiya Yakarawatta School and the Wayamba University Local Connect Slimtex Shramadana campaign at Kuliyapitiya Yakarawatta 125 Students Kuliyapitiya Yakarawatta SchoolKithalawa School with the support of Wayamba University students Local Connect MAS Fabrics Renovation project at the Thulhiriya Local community Matrix MFP temple and employees Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local Connect LC/LI Worlds Environment Kandy 20 Government Day celebration/100 offices tree planting program distributed fruit plants to BOI/Wattegama School, government officers, Rajawella Hindu College and planted the rest at the factory Local Connect Slimline Avurudu Uthsawaya 1,500 Mainly team members, and people from their villages Local connect Slimline Sponsor for Pannala Pannala 500 Pradeshiya samba Pradeshiya Saba Avurudu staff and their Uthsawaya 150 lunch families packets Local Connect Slimline Sponsorship for the Pannala 87 GS GS Divisions Gramasevaka Welfare Divisions Association Local Connect Slimline Providing morning snacks Pannala 153 Orphan children and lunch for Children’s Day celebration organized by Pannala police station Local Connect Slimtex Providing 100 lunch 100 Visually impaired packets to Sri Lanka community Visually Impaired Women’s members Organization Local Connect Slimtex Sponsorship for Dhathu Community Wandana members Local Connect Slimtex Sponsorship for Poson Wayamba University 1,000 BSF students Kalapaya BSF students Local Connect Slimtex Sponsorship for Mihindu Paluwella Perahera Local Connect Thurulie Contribution to people with Aranayake special needs affected by the Aranayake mudslides Local Connect UPL Koggala World Children’s Day 1,500+ Children and celebration children parents and their parents Local Connect Unichela Blood donation program Biyagama Biyagama Local Connect Unichela Sponsor for avurudu Biyagama North Biyagama North Biyagama kumaraya and kumari community competition members Local Connect Unichela Distributed plants for Biyagama 400 School students Biyagama Biyagama Maha Vidyalaya and BOI and BOI Local Connect Stretchline Environment Day Program Pradeepagama area, Community Around 50 plants and Mandawala Maha around were distributed among vidyalaya & Ovitigama Pradeepagama villagers of Pradeepagama, Bodhiraja Vidyalaya area and 200 plants among Mandawala Maha Vidyalaya & Ovitigama Bodhiraja Vidyalaya Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local Connect Linea Aqua To create a comfortable Children who live and dependable homeat Lamagramaya substitute for orphans and other socially disadvantaged children in society by giving them a new life and brighter future Local Connect Linea Aqua Helping low-income families and their children through Sadhaham Charika Local Connect Linea Intimo Paramitha Poojava at Dompe Dompe Sri Kalyana Dharmasharama Local Connect Linea Intimo To raise money to build Intimo premises Employees a team member’s house, the marketing department conducted Yogastic 2016 for all executives Local Connect Linea Intimo Collection of Atapirikara Intimo premises Employees from staff members for annual pirith Local Connect Linea Intimo Annual Pirith ceremony Intimo premises Employees 2016 Local Connect Linea Intimo Sponsored a musical show Kaduwela organized by the Youth Association in Kaduwela Local Connect Akshaya Distribution of dry Employees at (Active) rations and food items to Active, Akshaya employees Local Connect Akshaya Distribution of sweets at (Active) Gudur Daniel Children Home for Diwali Local Connect Asialine Donated sports uniforms (Active) for Walasmulla Court Local Connect Asialine Donation of nutritional (Active) food packs for pregnant mothers in the village Local Connect Asialine Free medical check-ups Katuwana Base Hospital (Active) for 150 employees at Katuwana Base Hospital Local Connect Contourline Gave a supporting hand for (Active) an employee to build her house Local Connect Contourline Cow released as a monthly (Active) project Local Connect LC/LI Three-day volleyball Wattegama 30 Students ranging coaching to Wattegama from 15-17 Central College years old that play volleyball at Wattegama Central College Local Connect Shadowline Donated 17 T shirts and bottoms for the BOI cricket team for use at the BOI annual sports day Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local Connect Shadowline Conducted a health awareness program for the Wester Seaton Cheshire Home Local Connect Shadowline A world environment day program was organized with the intention of creating awareness with all BOI KEPZ employees regarding waste segregation and waste management practice Local Connect Sleekline Renovated ‘Aruna children development home’ for mentally disabled children Local Connect Synergy Donated dry ration packs and other food for employees and communities affected by the floods and land slides Local connect/ Sleekline Tree planting project at Ambagaspitiya Capacity Ambagaspitiya Maha Building Vidyalaya and awareness session on bio diversity Local connect/ Shadowline Conducted a training Capacity program for team members Building under the theme “5S & life” focused on how to balance their personal life and finances Local connect/ Shadowline Dr.Hasantha Hettiarchchi Capacity conducted a motivational Building program for Shadowline employees on the work-life balance Local connect/ Shadowline In collaboration with the Katunayake Capacity Katunayake police station, Building conducted a training session for Shadowline drivers regarding traffic rules Local connect/ Shadeline Sponsored and initiated Rideemaliyadda Capacity a program for children Building with low income in Rideemaliyadda division for World Children’s Day. The motivation program was held at the Pradeshiya Sabhawa Local connect/ Linea Intimo Organized a life skills Capacity workshop to teach the girls Building at Viharamahadevi Child Development Center critical skills such as listening, attentiveness and respecting themselves Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local connect/ Textprint Blood donation campaign Textprint premises Patients suffering Capacity Lanka from Thalassemia Building in the Kurunegala area Local connect/ Akshaya Career planning program Chinthawaram School Students of Capacity (Active) for Grade 10 students of Chinthawaram Building Chinthawaram School School Local connect/ Akshaya Sports kit donation to the Chinthawaram High Students of Capacity (Active) students of Chinthawaram School Chinthawaram Building High School High School Local connect/ Akshaya Recruitment campaign at Capacity (Active) Kota Mandal Office Building Local connect/ Asialine Donated 20 school shoes Thalwaththa Capacity (Active) for poor students in Building Thalwaththa K.V Local connect/ Asialine Donated 15 school shoes Katuwana Capacity (Active) for poor students in the Building Katuwana Grama Niladari Area Local connect/ Asialine Donate school shoes for Katuwana Capacity (Active) less-fortunate children at Building Katuwana Gramasewaka Wasama Local connect/ Contourline Art competition for Capacity (Active) employees’ children Building Local connect/ Contourline Awareness session for Capacity (Active) Kengalla School children’s Building parents conducted by Balagollo police officers Local connect/ Contourline Art competition, videos, Capacity (Active) music, dancing for Building employee’s children Local connect/ Central A cash donation was made Capacity Warehouse to the student’s society of Building (Active) the Faculty of Medicine, University of Kelaniya, for their annual fundraising project Local connect/ Central A leadership development Wattala Capacity Warehouse workshop was conducted Building (Active) for 65 youths and prefects attached to Mattumagala Church, Wattala Local connect/ Central Donated 300 yards of fabric Capacity Warehouse to the Chiththasamadhi Building (Active) Bawana Center to distribute amoung Sunday school children for their uniforms. Local connect/ Leisureline Sponsored all certificates Capacity (Active) for the Amandoluwa School Building sports meet Local connect/ Leisureline Participated in a first aid Capacity (Active) training program certificate Building distribution at Udammita School Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local connect/ Leisureline Team Leisureline, together Capacity (Active) with Udammita School, Building conducted an awareness program on how to prevent accidents during school holidays Local connect/ Leisureline Participate and provided Capacity (Active) short eats and milk packets Building for a nurses’ awareness program Local connect/ Silueta Kaizen exhibition Kaduwela 20 Students of Capacity Bomiriya Central Building College Local connect/ Thurulie School bags and stationery Thurulie 100 Children of Capacity distribution to employees’ employees Building children in Grade 1 Local connect/ Stretchline An Inspirational Session Stretchline premises Capacity conducted by Professor Building Sarath Wijesuriya to empower female team members Local connect/ Linea Intimo A bonding workshop at Children at the Capacity the Viharamahadevi Child Viharamahadevi Building Development Centre Child Development Centre Local connect/ Linea Intimo A workshop for the Capacity community to bring up a Building national netball player who will be able to represent the country Local connect/ Linea Intimo A design expert from Linea Linea Intimo premises Capacity Intimo conducted a design Building workshop at the CDC. Various aspects of fashion, textile and development were discussed Local connect/ Linea Intimo Phase 2 of the Netball Biyagama Capacity project 50 netball players Building from 4 schools in the Biyagama vicinity were invited to take part at a workshop and a training conducted by senior netball coaches Local connect/ Linea Intimo Niromi Wickramaratne, Capacity a designer from Linea Building Intimo, conducted a design workshop at the CDC Local connect/ Linea Intimo A bonding workshop was Capacity carried out at Metta where Building the girls at the orphanage were taught to make lamps and lanterns Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local connect/ Linea Intimo A cross stitch workshop Capacity was conducted by Sunali Building Govipalgoda, Assistant Manager HR, for the girls at the CDC Local connect/ Linea Intimo A donation was made Biyagama Capacity towards the World Building Children’s Day event organized by the Pre-School Teachers’ Association of Biyagama. The money donated was used to buy gifts for all the children Local connect/ Casualline Sponsorship for a skills Mawathagama 38 different Capacity assessment competition to sunday schools building reach out to local dhaham from around pasals/temples Mawathagama area Local connect/ Slimtex 5S awareness at Kuli/Loanda Wevagama School students Capacity Primary School and their parents building Local connect/ Slimtex Factory visit for newly 75 school School principals Capacity recruited principles principles building Local connect/ Slimtex Factory visit for EGB schools Kuliyapitiya Yakarawatta 60 Students and Capacity School and Kuliyapitiya students teachers building Dhammarathana School and 10 teachers Local connect/ Thurulie Express learning program 700 Students Capacity students building from 7 schools Local connect/ Thurulie Leadership training for 400 School prefects Capacity school prefects building Local connect/ Thurulie Sisuwaruna Leadership Warakapola division 385 Senior prefects Capacity Program building Local connect/ UPL 5S visit for school children 25 Students Capacity Panadura building Local connect/ UPL 5S visit for school children 305 Gamagoda Capacity Panadura school children building Local connect/ Unichela Exam guides and memory Biyagama 150 O/L students of Capacity Biyagama tricks 2016 building Local connect/ Unichela Distributed gifts for Sisu Biyagama 800 Employees and Capacity Biyagama Waruna scholarship winners their families building at the Gold Coin Ceremony Local connect/ Linea Intimo Art therapy at the CDC Employees and Capacity their families building Local connect/ Linea Intimo Hear Me Out Phase 2: Capacity The second session on sign building language carried out by sign language interpreter Kelum Samarawickrama Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local connect/ Shadeline Sponsored an awareness Mahiyanganaya Capacity program held in building Gamunupura temple for pregnant mothers on best hygiene practices Local Connect/ Vidiyal Saree Connection Project Mullivaikkal and 25 Self-employed Capacity Facilitated the sewing Uduththurai villages individuals building training and technical involved in Saree support service by Vidiyal Connection team to the participants who are engaged in selfemployment (preparing clothes from used sarees) in Mullivaikkal and Uduththurai villages accompanying the PARCIC Mullaitivu Office Local Connect/ Slimtex Sponsorship for a teacher’s Yakarawatta 43 School teachers Capacity training program building Local Connect/ UPL Disaster awareness session UPL Panadura 1400 UPL Panadura Capacity Panadura for Unichela team employees building Local Connect/ Shadeline Sponsored an awareness Capacity program of counselling for building Dabana Village aborigines Local Connect/ Shadeline Sponsored Rideemaliyadda Rideemaliyadda Capacity sports division by giving the building Netball team uniforms Local Connect/ Nirmaana Conducted an awareness Capacity program for differently building abled employees Local connect/ Shadowline To celebrate World Donation Children’s Day, donated gifts for the kids in FTZSA daycare center Local connect/ Shadowline Donated food items for Donation the people of Aranayaka affected by the earth slip Local connect/ Asialine Donated Rs8,000 for the Donation (Active) Kawanthissapura dancing team’s costumes Local connect/ Operations Donated 9 laptops to Donation Center Gamini Vidyalaya (Active) Local connect/ Shadeline Donated Rs400,000 to the Donation Gemunupura preschool to construct and re-paint the building Local connect/ UPL Koggala Donation for temple in Weligama Weligama Donation Weligama community Local connect/ UPL Koggala Donation for Sevavanitha Donation Unit Local connect/ UPL Koggala Facilities to hold a Weligama Weligama Donation recruitment campaign community Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local connect/ Linea Intimo A sum of money was Team member Donation donated to a team member and his for the organizing of his community village avurudhu festival Local connect/ Linea Intimo Donation of money to Udupila Divisional Patients at Donation Udupila Divisional Hospital. Hospital Udupila Divisional This money was used for Hospital the new year festivities organized by the hospital Local connect/ Linea Intimo Donated Rs10,000 towards Colombo Students of Donation the Ananda College rifle Ananda College range refurbishment Local connect/ Linea Intimo A sum of money was Dompe Patrons of the Donation donated to the Dompe Dompe temple temple towards the Katina Pinkam to buy Buddhist Flags Local connect/ Linea Intimo A donation was made Donation towards the building of a water tank for the Henagama Suva Piyasa Local connect/ Linea Intimo A donation was made to Employee of Donation Chamari Kanchana of the Intimo TM Development team as she required the money to pay for her child’s school Local connect/ Textprint Donations for Meerigama Meerigama Children at the Donation Lanka Children’s Home Meerigama Children’s Home Local connect/ Textprint Donation of Fabrics Ethnawala, Warakapola Employees of the Donation Lanka for Ethnawala Grma Ethnawala area Sanwardhana Samithiya & Awamangalyadhara Samithiya Local connect/ Textprint Donation for Caledonian People who need Donation Lanka Society – Sri Lanka help through this Society Local connect/ Trischel Donation to an injured Alawwa Family member of Donation Fabric father of a TM a TM Local connect/ MAS Fabrics Donation to Waddeniya Alawwa Local community Donation Matrix school and employees Local connect/ MAS Fabrics Donation to Nape temple Udukumbura Local community Donation Matrix and employees Local connect/ Contourline Donation to Kengalla school Donation (Active) for dance costumes Local connect/ Central Donation of a school bag Donation Warehouse and money to a much(Active) needed A/L student from the Yakkala area to cover her tuition fees Local connect/ LC/LI Donated cash for the Mahawatte MV 500 All students that Donation Mahawatte MV, Kundasale participated School Prize Giving Local connect/ LC/LI Donated cash to purchase a Pilawala, Kandy 30 Students from Donation base drum and cymbals for the school school Western music band of Pilawala MV Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local connect/ MDS Book donation for Ratmalana 250 Students Donation Kadawala Vidyalaya Local connect/ Thurulie Dancing room for Mangedara School 180 Dance students Donation Mangedara School of Mangedara School Local connect/ Thurulie Sponsorship to attend an 2 Children of Donation overseas tournament employees Local connect/ UPL Koggala Donation to Kathaluwa Kathaluwa Central Donation Central College College Local connect/ UPL Koggala Donation of blazers for Angulugaha Prefects of G\ Donation prefects of G\ Angulugaha Angulugaha M.V M.V Local connect/ Vidiyal Donated compass to Kilinocchi 30 Kilinocchi Donation winners at Commerce Central College Day at Kilinochchi Central commerce day College winning students Local connect/ Stretchline Monetary or non-monetary Seven schools Students, Donation (desks and chairs, located near the bus Buddhist contributing constructions) routes (Athurugiriya, monks and the facilities offered to 12 Malwana, Ranala, community identified needs Henegama, Dompe, Pugoda, Weliweriya) and 5 daham schools (Peliyagoda, Weediyawatta, Meegahawatta, Pepiliyawela, Paliyagoda) Local connect/ Linea Intimo The ER team donated gift Employees and Donation vouchers worth Rs5,000 their families each and scholarships for grades 5, 11 and A/L Local Connect/ Textprint Donated a Thabla for Thulhiriya School children Donation Lanka Thulhiriya Dharmasiri including Senanayaka Central Collage Textprint TMs’ children Local Connect/ Textprint Donations for Kahambiliyawa, Alawwa School children Donation Lanka Kahabiliyawala School to including upgrade its main hall Textprint TMs’ children Local Connect/ Textprint Donation for a roller door Thulhiriya Employees Donation Lanka for the newly-built building and relevant for Thulhiriya Grama government Sanwardhana Samithiya officers in the Thulhiriya area Local Connect/ Trischel Donated classroom items Tolangamuwa Children of TMs Donation Fabric to the Sunday school at Tolangamuwa Temple Local connect/ Linea Intimo Donated notebooks to 70 Donation children at an orphanage Local Connect/ MAS Fabrics Donation to Thulhiriya Thulhiriya Local community Donation Matrix school dancing team and employees Local Connect/ LC/LI Donated 20 sets t-shirts/ Pallekelle 20 Inmates of the Donation bottoms to the Bogambara prison Prison Driving School Local Connect/ Thurulie Chair donation to 30 Students of the Donation Bhodimalu Temple Dhamma school School Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local Connect/ LC/LI Donating cash to the Hatharaliyadda 500 Villagers/ Donation Divisional Secretariat, Divisional Hatharaliyadda, for Secretary Kohomba Kankariya Cultural program Local Connect/ LC/LI Donation of gifts (185 cups Srimalwatte 185 Primary school Donation and tills ) to Sirimalwatte students MV Primary School children for Bak Maha Ulela Local Connect/ LC/LI Donated cash for the 500 All those that Donation Auvurudu Uthsawaya of participated from Narendra Singhe Mawatha that village Suba Sadaka Samithiya Local Connect/ LC/LI Donated 200 t-shirts to the Kandy 200 Students Donation Kandyan dancing troop of participating Sri Dalada Maligawa Local Connect/ LC/LI School name board Doragamuwa 1,500 Doragamuwa Donation donation for Doragamuwa School students/ MMV passed students/ parents/villages Local Connect/ LC/LI Donation of snacks and Kandy 60 Grade 1 students Donation gifts for Weeravikun P S Local Connect/ MDS DSI shoe voucher donation 30 School students Donation for the students of HIV affected families Local Connect/ Slimline Thalemmahera temple200 School students Donation Book donation for prize and their parents giving Local Connect/ Slimline White fabric donation for Bopitiya Donation Bopitiya temple Local Connect/ Slimline Elabadagama School Bus Elabadagama 30 School students Donation donation for the dancing team to attend the national meet Local Connect/ Slimline Labbala School Sounds 300 Students of the Donation donation for the music school therapies program Local Connect/ Thurulie Donation of dry rations Kegalle district 35 Visually impaired Donation and clothes for visually individuals handicapped people Local Connect/ Thurulie Dry rations , clothes and Aranayake 1,000 Community Donation medical supplies donation affected by to Aranayake area mudslide mudslides victims Local Connect/ Slimtex Fabric donations for Kuliyapitiya Police and Donation Kuliyapitiya police station community Vesak lanterns Local Connect/ Slimtex Donating cash to celebrate Ridmanjali Foundation, 200 Students Donation Children’s Day Kuliyapitiya Local Connect/ UPL Koggala Donation for Esala Pilana, Angulugaha Pilana, Donation Angulugaha community Local Connect/ UPL Koggala Donation for Dansala Habaraduwa Habaraduwa Donation community Local Connect/ Vidiyal Provided dry rations to 248 Vidiyal team Donation flood-affected TMs members Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local Connect/ Linea Intimo The HR department Sri Pahamuna Buddhist Donation donated Rs10,000 to the Sri Center Pahamuna Buddhist Center Local Connect/ Linea Intimo The BOI organized an Donation art competition in lieu of Women’s Day and Linea Intimo sponsored a sum of Rs9,000 Local Connect/ Linea Intimo Donated Rs10,000 and Students of Donation rented 5 buses to the Biyagama Central Biyagama Central College College for the perahera organized by the school Local Connect/ Asialine Donated Viyali Salaka for a Donation (Active) month to a poor family Local Connect/ Linea Intimo A donation was made Donation to the Ganegoda Sri Sarananda Pirivena for a Katina Pinkama Local Connect/ Central Sponsored a family Wattala Donation Warehouse gathering attached to (Active) Mattumagala Church. Donated 15 gift vouchers and gifts through the CWH scrap fund Local Connect/ Central Team CWH donated 200 Donation Warehouse Nestomalt (400g) packs to (Active) the Cancer Hospital as a part of its ‘Spread a Little Love’ program Local Connect/ Leisureline Donated Rs3,500 to Donation (Active) Sujeewa who lost her whole salary and bonus before going to home for the Aurudhu holidays Local Connect/ Leisureline Team Leisureline, together Donation (Active) with the Active Center, donated dry rations, water, medicines and clothes to a team member who lost her house due to bad weather conditions Local Connect/ Leisureline Team Leisureline, together Donation (Active) with the Active Center, donated Rs120,000 to build a house that was destroyed due to bad weather conditions Local Connect/ Leisureline Donated Rs20,000 to Negombo Donation (Active) the Negombo Labour Department for the development of its environment Local Connect/ LC/LI Donating 70 t-shirts for the Kandy 70 All students who Donation sport meet of Gomariya participated for School the drill Local Connect/ LC/LI Donating cash for the Kandy 1,000 All students of Donation school sports meet trophy the school of Gothami Girls College Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local Connect/ Nirmaana Donated fabric to the Katunayake Donation Katunayake police station Local connect/ Nirmaana Constructed a classroom Mundalama Infrastructure and a water purification system for Marichchikatuwa Primary School Local connect/ Nirmaana Donated Rs47,000 for the Maharagama Infrastructure PET scanner machine of the Maharagama Cancer Hospital Local connect/ Operations Donated stationary items Deniyaya Infrastructure Center and school bags to the (Active) childrens at the Lankagama school Local connect/ Shadeline Sponsored Sri Lanka’s Deaf Infrastructure Sports Federation by giving Cricket uniforms for the SAARC Deaf T-20 Asia Cup in Bangladesh Local connect/ Shadeline Donated books, a foot Infrastructure cycle, an electric oven, a standing fan and 20 umbrellas to the Disable Society Local connect/ Shadeline Sponsored computer tables Infrastructure for Medayaya School Local connect/ Shadeline Donated 50 chairs and Infrastructure desks for Sunday school in Kudalunuka temple Local connect/ Shadeline Sponsored to construct Infrastructure 4 toilets in Kudalunuka temple Local connect/ Shadeline Sponsored for Adaulpotha Adaulpotha Infrastructure school drama team by giving them transport to the All Island Drama Competition Local connect/ Shadeline Sponsored a bus for Kuruwitenna Infrastructure Kuruwitenna school for their annual school trip Local connect/ Shadeline Sponsored a bus for Medayaya Infrastructure Medayaya school for their annual school trip Local connect/ Asialine Donated 25 used chairs Students of Infrastructure (Active) for Thorakolayaya Maha Thorakolayaya Vidyalaya Maha Vidyalaya Local connect/ Asialine Donation of a table for Infrastructure (Active) MAS Active Center Crèche Local connect/ Shadeline Constructed a bus halt at Mahiyanganaya Infrastructure Mahiyanganaya town Local connect/ Leisureline Donated essential school Negombo Infrastructure (Active) items to preschool children at Munnakaraya, Negombo Local connect/ Leisureline Donated medicine and Infrastructure (Active) dry ratons to the Walana Children’s Home Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local connect/ Shadeline Developed infrastructure Infrastructure facilities at Abayapura preschool and temple Local connect/ Leisureline Team Leisureline donated Infrastructure (Active) 30 sets of drawing book, pencils and pastels for employees’ children Local connect/ LC/LI Donating English activity Wattegama 2,700 All students Infrastructure books to the Zonal sitting for GCE Educational office O/L Local connect/ LC/LI Renovation of Karaliyadda Teldeniya 250 Primary school Infrastructure Junior School roof (20 students x 60), drainage system, 3 classrooms and main entrance gates, and welded broken chairs and desks Local connect/ Silueta Laptop donation to Kaduwela 50 A/L IT students Infrastructure Bomiriya Central College Local connect/ Slimline A.W.L Weerasinghe book 4 Children of the Infrastructure donation family Local connect/ Thurulie Repairing or replacing Bodhimalu dhamma 100 Students Infrastructure broken chairs to Bodhimalu school dhamma school Local connect/ Thurulie Distributing school bags, 110 Children of Infrastructure stationery and shoes employees to employees’ children attending Grade 1 in 2016 Local connect/ Vidiyal Donation of school Kilinochchi 61 Kilinocchi school Infrastructure stationery for the winner students of the reading competition among Kilinochchi district students Local connect/ Vidiyal Donating school stationery 41 Children of Infrastructure to employees’ children emloyees within the 3rd rank at the final exam Local Connect/ Slimtex Developing infrastructure Kuliyapitiya 150 Students Infrastructure facilities at the school Dhammarathana School Local Connect/ Slimtex Developing infrastructure Kuliyapitiya Yakarawatta 125 Students Infrastructure facilities at the school School Local Connect/ Linea Intimo Monthly CSR project at Kanduboda Maha Students of Infrastructure Kanduboda Maha Vidyalaya Vidyalaya Kanduboda Maha The team color-washed Vidyalaya the school’s library, fixed a new fan, provided furniture for the library and new book cupoboards, and provided computer chairs for the computer lab Local Connect/ Linea Intimo Donation of computer CPU Biyagama Officers at the Infrastructure and monitor to Biyagama Biyagama Police Police Station Station Local Connect/ Linea Intimo Donation of furniture to Mandawala Students of Infrastructure Palpita Primary School Palpita Primary School Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local Connect/ Linea Intimo The IE Department Dompe Infrastructure organized a carwash to raise money to conduct the ‘Passing the Light’ CSR project. Their project renovated the building of the Dompe Primary School Local Connect/ Linea Intimo The Planning Department Dompe Students of Infrastructure conducted their ‘Passing Dompe Primary the Light’ project at School Dompe Primary School. The department uplifted the 5S standards of the school, refurbished a classroom and donated cupboards Local Connect/ Linea Intimo Purchased 100 tickets for Infrastructure the Music for Trail event. All proceeds go towards Trail building a cancer hospital in Karapitiya Local Connect/ Linea Intimo The MOS Department built Siyambalape Infrastructure a new water tank at the Siyambalape Primary School Local Connect/ Linea Intimo The commercial team Thissamaharama Students of Infrastructure distributed books, uniforms, Osuwinna shoes and sports equipment Kanishta required for the new year Widyalaya to the Osuwinna Kanishta Widyalaya, Thissamaharama Local Connect/ MAS Fabrics Kohombadeniya Primary Warakapola Local community Infrastructure Matrix School rehabilitation project and employees Local Connect/ MAS Fabrics Providing basic needs of the Warakapola Local community Infrastructure Matrix Kohombadeniya Primary and employees school – continuous project Local Connect/ MAS Fabrics Improving the facilities at Elipangamuwa Local community Infrastructure Matrix Elipangamuwa school and employees Local Connect/ Asialine Painted Walgammulla MOH Walgammulla Infrastructure (Active) Office Local Connect/ Asialine Painting the Gangeyaya Gangeyaya Infrastructure (Active) MOH office Local Connect/ Asialine Painted and repaired the Middeniya Infrastructure (Active) Middeniya Ayuruwedic Hospital Local Connect/ Asialine Painted and repaired the Thalawa Infrastructure (Active) Thalawa Rural Hospital Local Connect/ Asialine Donation of 8 chairs for the Sewanagala Infrastructure (Active) Sewanagala Post Office Local Connect/ Contourline Donated roofing sheets to a Infrastructure (Active) team member who’s house had been damaged by a fire Local Connect/ Leisureline Donated tables and chairs Infrastructure (Active) to Walana Primary School Local connect/ Casualline Renovation of the People in the Infrastructure Mawathagama hospital area around Mawathagama Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Local connect/ Slimline Chair donation to Sripathi Kuliyapitiya 2,000 Students and Infrastructure Royal College their parents, principal, teachers Local connect/ Linea Aqua Restore a Senior Citizen’s Dompe Senior citizens at Infrastructure Home in Dompe the Home Local connect/ Linea Aqua Building a healthy Dompe region All GS officers Infrastructure relationship with GS of the Dompe officers and providing welldivision and all formatted notice boards citizens in the region Local connect/ Linea Intimo The Sewing department Infrastructure conducted their CSR project at the Udupila Hospital. They refurbished the ladies ward repainting the walls, fixing a new fan, reuilding roofing sheets and repainting the beds Nation Linea Intimo Donation of water bottles mindedness and dry rations to Sri Somalankarama Vihara for flood victims Nation UPL Essential items were Biyagama, 50 Families affected mindedness Panadura donated to flood Bandaragama,Panadura families by floods victims in the Biyagama, and Avissawella Bandaragama,Panadura and Avissawella areas Nation Casualline Donations to those affected Kurunegala and 60 Employees/ Mindedness by the floods surrounding area family members and local areas affected by the recent flood situation/weather conditions Nation Silueta Distributing household 81 Flood affected Mindedness goods to flood-affected TM’s employees voucher distribution and donation of Rs10,000 Nation Silueta Dry rations and sanitary Biyagama and Kelaniya 500+ Flood-affected Mindedness items distribution areas families Nation Slimline School equipment (shoes, 70 School students Mindedness bags, books) donation for flood victims Nation Stretchline Employee contribution Flood affected areas People in BOI Mindedness and engagement to (near BEPZ) Zone and this charitable event by community in corporating with other Biyagama SBUs in the zone for flood donations Nation Shadowline Collborated with the Active Mindedness head office and donated sanitary items and dry ration packs to flood victims Nation Shadowline Provided a boat service for Mindedness flood-affected areas Pillar SBU Project detail/objective Location Impact Beneficiaries Nation Linea Aqua Restoring Bundala National Bundala National Park Patrons to Mindedness Park to its natural beauty Bundala National and recreating a healthy Park and the habitat for the myriad of surrounding plant and animal species community that inhabit the area, while providing the surrounding community with economic benefits through increasing visitor traffic Nation Linea Intimo The HR department Employees Mindedness donated food packets and water, as well as dry rations collected from other departments to flood victims Nation Linea Intimo In lieu of Trail 2016, Jaffna Mindedness donated t-shirts to students of a school in Jaffna Nation Noyon Flood aid for team Biyagama Flood victims Mindedness Lanka members and surrounding and surrounding villages (Rs10,000 each for villagers 40 families and a dry ration pack worth Rs2,500 for 75 families) Nation Synergy Conducted aquatic diversity Mindedness and conservation program with the Galle Conservation Society Nation Shadeline Donated disposable bags Horton Plains Mindedness for Horton Plains 121 Communication On Progress 2016 122 Communication On Progress 2016
