Communication on Progress 2016 We unite Norway – and Norway with the world 2 AVINOR AS THE YEAR 2016 50 800 000 704 000 3 074 PASSENGERS DEPARTURES AND EMPLOYEES LANDINGS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 3 300 000 87 PER CENT PATIENT FLIGHTS PUNCTUALITY 4 AVINOR AS Our performance Operating income Operating income airport operations air navigation services Profit after tax 9 675 NOK MILLION 1 991 NOK MILLION 1 029 NOK MILLION NUMBER OF AIR PASSENGERS AVINOR’S OWN CONTROLLABLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Figures in 1 000 Tonnes CO2-eq. 60 000 25 000 50 000 20 000 40 000 15 000 30 000 10 000 20 000 5 000 10 000 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 NOK MILLION 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Operating income airport operations 9 674.9 9 424.1 9 561.5 9 001.1 8 255.8 Operating income air navigation services 1 990.8 2 087.6 2 014.8 1 897.3 1 837.1 Total operating income group 10 788.1 11 989.4 10 671.0 9 977.6 9 152.1 EBITDA group 3 520.7 4 691.8 3 648.3 2 993.0 2 918.2 Profit after tax 1 028.6 2 449.0 1 398.7 890.9 854.7 Number of airline passengers (figures in 1 000) 50 803 50 025 50 107 48 799 46 511 Number of aircraft movements (figures in 1 000) 704 724 738 731 669 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 5 Content About Avinor Ready for new challenges! 6 8 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 11 Corporate Governance 16 Corporate Social Responsibility 20 Overview of indicators 52 The Group Management 58 The Board of Directors 59 Income statement 62 Statement of comprehensive income 63 Balance sheet 64 Changes in equity 66 Statement of cashflows 68 Notes to the accounts 70 Responsibility Statement from the Board of Directors and the CEO 118 Auditor’s report 120 6 AVINOR AS About Avinor Avinor is a wholly owned state limited company under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Avinor is responsible for the 46 state-owned airports and air navigation services for civil and military aviation in Norway. VISION MISSION VALUES We create Avinor shall develop · Open valuable and operate a safe, · Accountable relationships efficient and sustainable · Dynamic aviation system · Customer-focused throughout Norway COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 7 The air navigation services are organised in a separate company wholly owned by Avinor Avinor Flysikring AS. Air navigation OUR AIRPORTS includes en route services, approach control services and tower Avinor’s airports vary greatly in terms of their size and traffic control services, as well as maintenance and operation of the volume. Oslo Airport is by far the largest airport and handles technical infrastructure for air navigation. Avinor Flysikring AS more than half of all air traffic in Norway and 70 per cent of all is responsible for air navigation in the Norwegian airspace and international traffic. Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim also provides services to both civil and military aviation. This report also handle significant international traffic. Other airports also have covers the air navigation services. international traffic: Tromsø, Bodø, Harstad/Narvik, Molde, Ålesund, Haugesund, Kristiansand and Kristiansund. Avinor collaborates with the Armed Forces at eleven airports, nine of which are Avinor airports (Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Only Oslo Airport has two parallel runways. Stavanger Airport Bodø, Andøya, Harstad/Narvik, Bardufoss and Lakselv). There is has a secondary runway which is used in certain wind conditions. Traffic forecasts indicate that a third runway will be required at also Ørland air base, which is entirely a military base, and Rygge, Oslo Airport by around 2030. A second runway will probably also which currently only has military operations and general aviation. be necessary at Bergen Airport, Flesland by around 2040. Avinor’s strategic plan for 2014-2020 defines four overarching Oslo Airport has two parallel runways with respective lengths of objectives for operations: 3 600 and 2 950 metres. The runways at the other major airports vary in length from 2 600 to around 3 000 metres, which enables ·· SOCIETY them to be used by larger jet aircraft. 27 of Avinor’s 46 airports Avinor shall help to strengthen the competitiveness of the counare short-runway airports, with runways of between 800 and try and the region, and at the same time take active responsibility 1200 metres. These airports are used by smaller aircraft such as for the environmental and social consequences of its operations the Bombardier Dash 8, air ambulances and private aircraft. The 27 small airports are vital in sustaining settlement, business and industry in rural districts. ·· CUSTOMER Avinor shall deliver excellent services with a high level of safety, operational stability and efficiency ·· FINANCE accounts for over half of all air traffic and over 70 per cent of Avinor shall secure a satisfactory return on invested capital, and international traffic passing through Avinor’s airports. The profit safeguard the organisation’s investment and financing capacity generated by Oslo Airport is vital to the funding of the airport netthrough a balanced capital structure work across the country. At Oslo Airport, the number of passengers was 25.8 million, up 4.5 per cent compared with 2015. ·· PEOPLE, LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Avinor shall be a strong, cohesive and customer-focused group A total of 28 of Avinor’s airports saw a rise in the number of passengers during 2016, whereas 18 experienced a decrease. Traffic Safety has the highest priority in Avinor. No serious aviation at Stavanger fell by 6.8 per cent. This was linked to the downturn in incidents occurred where Avinor was a contributory party in 2016. the oil and gas industry. There was one aviation accident without personal injury where Avinor was a contributory party 1). A total of 704,419 departures and landings took place at Avinor’s airports in 2016, down 2.7 per cent from the previous year. In other Avinor’s primary revenue sources are fees charged to airlines, as words, the rise in the number of passengers in 2016 is linked to an well as commercial revenue from the letting of space for shops, increase in the number of passengers per aircraft, duty-free shops, cafés and restaurants and other services. Avinor not an increase in the number of departures and landings. also receives revenue from the letting of space for airport hotels and parking facilities. Avinor is self-funded. Airport operations are The number of flights through Norwegian airspace increased by 7.8 managed as a single entity, where financially profitable airports per cent. finance the financially unprofitable airports. Shares in Avinor AS are wholly owned by the Norwegian state as In 2016, a total of 50.8 million passengers travelled from Avinor’s represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. airports (scheduled, charter and offshore flights), an increase of The Ministry of Transport and Communications manages the 1.6 per cent over 2015. International traffic rose by 2.6 per cent state’s ownership and stipulates Avinor’s financial framework. The compared with the previous year, while domestic traffic increased Ministry also regulates aviation fees. The Ministry is the highest by 1.2 per cent. authority for Norwegian aviation and also lays down the Civil Aviation Authority’s regulations for Avinor’s operations. Avinor’s Oslo Airport is the hub for Norwegian air traffic and a junction for head office is situated in Oslo. traffic between Norway and other countries. This airport alone 1) Collision between a helicopter and a car, with no injuries, but considerable material damage 8 AVINOR AS A message from the CEO Ready for new challenges! The Avinor group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the manner. The major capacity expansion we are now conducting in United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Oslo and Bergen will contribute to ensuring we carry out our social Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This Communication mission. And in the years ahead we will face new challenges. We on Progress describes our actions to continually improve the are expanding Stavanger and Tromsø, and we have been tasked integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our with moving the airport in Bodø. A brand new airport is also being business strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share considered in Helgeland. At Oslo Airport we plan to increase the this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels capacity of the non-Schengen area and in a few years there will be a of communication. requirement for a third runway. Efforts are under way to meet this demand and to ensure the necessary progress. Aviation connects the country — and links Norway to the world. A well-functioning aviation system is crucial for the development Given our significant tasks and challenges, Avinor has a constant of Norwegian society. Both national and international forecasts need to modernise and streamline operations. The group is show continued growth in air traffic in the years ahead. Reasons for therefore carrying out a major programme to ensure we continue this include increased global trade, tourism and a rapidly growing to be an effective, modern and competitive company that will meet middle class in Asia, Latin America and Africa. future challenges. The programme is being conducted according to plan and by the end of 2018, the group's costs will have reduced by At many of our airports, growth has been significant in recent NOK 1.5 billion. years. The country's main airport has become overcrowded during peak hours, and at Bergen Airport queues have sometimes We are constantly working to improve the customer experience stretched far outside the terminal during the morning rush hour. and aim to be one of Europe's top suppliers. We have increased the This development was expected and is in line with the analyses of capacity of the security check area at all major airports, expanded future capacity needs we conduct on an annual basis. And finally, the terminals and installed automated solutions for check-in, bag27 April will see the official opening of the new Oslo Airport with a gage handling, ticket verification and boarding. Furthermore, new significantly increased capacity, while on 17 August we will open a catering facilities and commercial opportunities have been added new terminal in Bergen. at several airports, families with children benefit from specific services and we are introducing simplified and more customer-friendly Public transport services to and from the airport in Bergen will also solutions for parking. be dramatically improved, with direct connections to light rail from the new terminal. Oslo Airport already holds the European record Emissions of greenhouse gases are also a major challenge for in the use of public transport — over 70 per cent of our passengers aviation. Today, aviation accounts for about 2% of total global use public transport to and from the airport. The new terminals in greenhouse gas emissions, and 5% in Norway, including internaOslo and Bergen also make use of universal design in all buildings tional traffic. We take this very seriously, and Avinor is working and installations. Over time, all Avinor airports will be universally closely with the airlines to reduce emissions. The development designed in accordance with applicable regulations. of more fuel-efficient aircraft, the introduction of jet biofuel and eventually electric aircraft for passenger traffic will help to alleviate An important part of Avinor's social mission is to ensure adequate these challenges. Avinor is, and will remain, a strong driving force in capacity. Those who need to travel by air shall have the opportunity finding solutions that ensure that the industry develops and applies to do so in a safe, efficient and the most environmentally friendly good solutions related to the environment and climate change. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 9 An important part of Avinor's social mission is to ensure adequate capacity. Those who need to travel by air shall have the opportunity to do so in a safe, efficient and the most environmentally friendly manner. Dag Falk-Petersen WE SUPPORT CEO 10 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 11 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 · New terminal areas and associated underlying infrastructure at Oslo Airport and a new terminal at Bergen Airport according to schedule and within the approved cost framework · Safe and stable operations despite high levels of construction activity · The group’s modernisation programme made good progress in 2016 and met its target by a wide margin · Avinor Air Navigation Services won international competition for air traffic control and air navigation services at Sandefjord Airport, Torp · Oslo Airport is the first international airport with regular supplies of jet biofuel for all airlines refuelling there · Operating profit (EBIT) NOK 1 758 million · Assumed responsibility for airport operations at Bodø Airport as a consequence of the new fighter plane base for the Norwegian Armed Forces at Ørland MAIN EVENTS (Last year’s figures in parantheses) Air traffic in 2016, measured as the number of passengers travelmillion (NOK 2 449 million). The 2015 result was positively affected ling through Avinor’s airports, rose by 1.6 per cent. Oslo Airport by a non-recurring profit made on the sale of property. increased by 4.5 per cent, while Stavanger Airport experienced a downturn of 6.8 per cent. Overall, traffic at other airports remained Trial operation of the new terminal areas and associated underlying at the same level as in 2015. The downturn in the oil and gas infrastructure at Oslo Airport began on 1 December 2016, with industry has particularly affected domestic air traffic and offshore subsequent scheduled escalation of passenger volumes and aircraft helicopter traffic in Western Norway. Air traffic is expected to movements at the new facilities. Outstanding construction works increase in 2017. However, uncertainty relating to socio-economic include completion of the link to the old terminal and commercial developments may affect this picture. areas. Everything is now set for a complete and fully tested facility ready for official opening on 27 April 2017. The project will be The most recent travel habits survey indicated that more leisure completed on time and on budget. trips than business trips were made on domestic air services for the first time. Tourists are increasingly travelling to Norway. Growth The new terminal at Bergen Airport will open on 17 August 2017 as during the past two years primarily stems from foreign nationals planned. The project’s milestone plan shows that this objective is travelling to Norway. expected to be reached within budget. Safe and stable operations were maintained in 2016, despite high The group’s modernisation programme made good progress in 2016 levels of construction activity combined with ongoing traffic and met its target of NOK 300 million in efficiency improvement management. Average punctuality and regularity during the last 12 and cost savings by a wide margin. The group is targeting total months stood at 87 per cent and 99 per cent respectively. There was cost savings of NOK 600 million annually from 2018 compared to one aviation accident in 2016 where Avinor was a contributory party. the Group’s prior long term plan (baseline). Targeted accumulated savings for the period 2015 – 2018 are NOK 1.5 billion. The group’s operating income for 2016 amounted to NOK 10 788 million (NOK 11 989 million) and profit after tax totalled NOK 1 029 12 AVINOR AS In order to strengthen future emergency preparedness, create Oslo and Trondheim are accredited at the highest level (Level 3+), attractive workplaces, make the operation more efficient and avoid while the other airports have Level 2 accreditation. Ambitious new tower facility investments, Remote Services has been estabtargets have been set for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by lished as a unit under Avinor Air Navigation Services AS. Remote 2020. In connection with the environmental work, it has been Services is mandated to develop, implement and commercialise decided that all of Avinor’s airports are to be certified according to remotely operated tower services. Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace environmental standard ISO 14001. is a partner and system supplier for the development project. A remotely operated tower centre is under construction in Bodø, Electric aircraft could be a viable alternative in domestic traffic in with a targeted 15 towers in operation by the end of 2020. This is a Norway, if the airlines and aircraft manufacturers decide to invest ground-breaking air navigation service project that involves techniin the technology. Airbus’s electric aircraft, the E-Fan, became the cal, economical and regulatory risk when it comes to progress. big attraction at the Zero Emission Conference in Oslo in November The project is on schedule with regards to the milestone plan. 2016. In 2018, Airbus will launch a new version of the electric aircraft which will be put into production for the private aviation market. As part of the restructuring of the Royal Norwegian Air Force, Avinor took over responsibility for the operation of Bodø Airport Ipsos’ annual profile survey showed that Avinor’s reputation had from the Armed Forces on 1 August 2016. In connection with improved considerably. The group climbed 25 places from last year’s this, Avinor has chosen an operating model where fire and rescue survey and was ranked number 44 of 97 companies. The survey maps services, runway maintenance and electrical services are outthe overall impression of companies, environmental awareness, social sourced. This operating model will provide safe, stable and scalable responsibility, ethics, finance, advertising and information. operations that also cover the temporary and varying needs of the Norwegian Armed Forces until the F16 is phased out after 2020. ABOUT AVINOR The issue of a new airport in Bodø will be presented in the first half of 2017 in connection with the National Transport Plan. The Avinor AS is a state-owned limited company whose mission is to Norwegian Defence Estates Agency has assessed a collective state facilitate safe, environmentally-friendly and efficient aviation in property strategy for the areas. The study shows a possible model all parts of Norway. The enterprise has a network of 46 airports for sharing of the funding between Avinor, assets from properties and includes the subsidiary Avinor Flysikring AS that operates air and an external funding source. On behalf of the Ministry of navigation services in Norway. As of 31 December 2016, the enterTransport and Communications, Avinor has carried out a further prise’s balance sheet total amounted to around NOK 41 million. review of the prerequisites for establishing a new airport. The cost The number of employees was 3074 (3157). of a new airport is estimated at between NOK 4.5 and 5.0 billion (2016 values). Avinor’s contribution to the financing is estimated Shares in Avinor AS are wholly owned by the Norwegian state as at a level of NOK 1.5 billion. The government has declared that it represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. will include a construction of a new airport in Bodø in the National The Ministry manages the state’s ownership of Avinor, and Transport Plan for the period 2018-2029 with a public funding of stipulates the group's financial framework. The Ministry is also the NOK 2.2 billion. highest authority for Norwegian aviation and lays down the Civil Aviation Authority’s regulations for Avinor’s operations. During 2016, Oslo Airport consolidated its position as the biggest cargo market in the Nordic region. The Norwegian aquaculture Avinor’s head office is situated in Oslo. industry is seeing strong growth in international markets in Asia, Africa and the US, with new cargo routes established by Emirates, Cargolux and AirBridge Cargo. An outline project has been FINANCE GROUP developed for the establishment of an airfreight seafood centre, which will facilitate industrialised logistics and distribution for the The group’s operating income for 2016 amounted to NOK 10 788 Norwegian seafood industry. million (NOK 11 989 million), and profit after tax was NOK 1 029 million (NOK 2 449 million). Operating income in 2015 included In competition with international companies, Avinor Flysikring a non-recurring profit made on the sale of property amounting to AS was chosen in September 2016 to supply air traffic control and NOK 1 266 million. air navigation services at Sandefjord Airport, Torp for the next five years. This contract demonstrates that Avinor Flysikring delivers Within airport operations, operating income increased year-on-year good services at a competitive price. Moreover, an agreement has by 2.7 per cent during 2016, driven by an increase in traffic volumes been reached with the Norwegian Armed Forces for the operation and higher sales and rental income at Oslo Airport. Within air of air navigation services at Rygge military airport. navigation services, the increase in traffic volume was more than offset by planned price reductions, with the result that total operAvinor aims for sustainable jet biofuel to be used in Norwegian ating income fell by 4.6 per cent. Operating income from property aviation. I January 2016, Avinor Oslo Airport, in collaboration with decreased as a result of the sale of Radisson BLU Gardermoen AirBP, SkyNRG, Lufthansa Group, KLM and SAS, became the first during the fourth quarter of 2015. international airport with regular supplies of biofuel for all airlines refuelling there. In the fourth quarter of 2016, a new supply of Operating expenses in 2016 amounted to NOK 7 267 million (NOK biofuel was received from AltAir in California. 7 298 million), a year-on-year increase of 0.4 per cent. Operating expenses per passenger decreased by 1.9 per cent year-on-year in 2016. In connection with the efforts being made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger and Kristiansand In 2016, additional costs of maintaining sound operations and airports renewed their international Airport Carbon Accreditation. efficient traffic management alongside the expansion of Oslo COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 13 Airport amounted to NOK 356 million (NOK 248 million) (excluding expressed as a percentage of the sum of equity and net interdepreciation and write-downs) and have been expensed; see Note 9 est-bearing liabilities amounted to 43.4 per cent as at 31 December in the consolidated accounts. 2016 (45.3 per cent). Taking into account cash and cash equivalents, the ratio was 44.6 per cent (47.7 per cent). Total depreciation, amortisation and write-down amounted to NOK 1 763 million in 2016 (NOK 1 459 million). The increase over the preAgainst the backdrop of developments in the interest markets vious year was due to the completion and commissioning of several and other factors, equity was down by NOK 415 million after tax facilities previously under construction. Additional depreciation as at 31 December 2016. This is mainly due to the negative effects linked to the construction project at Oslo Airport amounted to NOK of changes in actuarial assumptions used for estimating pension 82 million (NOK 61 million); see Note 9 in the consolidated accounts. obligations. As of 31 December 2016, calculations of the group's pension obligations were based on a discount rate of 2.6 per cent In 2016, the group’s modernisation programme met the target for and a long-term anticipated salary growth rate of 2.5 per cent. efficiency improvements and cost savings of NOK 300 million by a wide margin. The programme’s targeted cost savings of NOK 600 As at 31 December 2016, the group’s cash reserves amounted to million annually from 2018 compared to the Group’s prior long NOK 5 749 million, split between NOK 949 million in bank deposits term plan (baseline) remains the same. Despite large expansions and NOK 4 800 million in unused bank overdrafts. in capacity and increased production, the number of full-time equivalents are reduced by 2.5 per cent in 2016. FINANCE AVINOR AS EBITDA in 2016 was NOK 3 521 million (NOK 4 692 million), with an EBITDA margin of 32.6 per cent (39.1 per cent). Adjusted for a Avinor AS and Oslo Lufthavn AS merged financially on the 1st of non-recurring profit on the sale of property during 2015, the group’s January 2016. EBITDA margin in 2016 strengthened by 0.7 percentage points compared with 2015. In 2016, the parent company Avinor AS had an operating income of NOK 9 565 million (NOK 4 987 million). Profit after tax was NOK Operating profit (EBIT) in 2016 amounted to NOK 1 758 million (NOK 905 million (NOK 92 million). 3 233 million). The reduced operating profit can be explained by higher depreciation, additional expenses related to maintaining effective operThe parent company’s balance sheet as of 31 December 2015 ations and traffic control during the expansion of Oslo Airport, reduced amounted to NOK 39 832 million (NOK 28 070 million with an rental income following the sale of Radisson BLU Gardermoen, as well equity-to-assets ratio of 41.1 per cent (30.5 per cent). as reduced prices in the air navigation service. In addition, included in the operating profit in 2015 is a non-recurring profit of NOK 1 266 In 2016, Avinor AS had a cash flow prior to disbursed dividend and million as a result of the sale of Radisson BLU Gardermoen. change in liabilities of NOK 2 148 million (NOK 1 892 million). Disbursed dividend amounted to NOK 500 million (NOK 500 milThe group’s net financial loss in 2016 was NOK 384 million (loss lion). Total interest-bearing debt as of 31 December 2016 amounted of NOK 329 million). The change in net financial result was due to to NOK 18 819 million (NOK 13 969 million). interest expenses linked to higher borrowing and a reduction in the scope of recognised project-related interest expenses. Tax expenses Allocation of the profit for the year are NOK 346 million. The Board of Directors proposes the following allocation of the As a result of investment payments exceeding the contribution profit for the year: from current operations, the group had a negative cash flow of NOK 2 622 million in 2016 (NOK 1 726) before changes in liabilDividend: NOK 550 million ities. Avinor disbursed a dividend of NOK 500 million (NOK 500 Transferred to other equity: NOK 355.3 million million) to the Norwegian state in 2016. The financial statements have been prepared under the assumpInterest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2016 amounted to tion that the company will continue as a going concern based on NOK 19 957 million, which represents an increase of NOK 1 467 milforecasts and the calculated present value of estimated future cash lion since 31 December 2015. The increase was primarily due to full flow. For further details, see Note 13 in the accounts. utilisation in the second quarter of 2016 of the loan facility provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB) amounting to EUR 200 million. The loan was raised in NOK and amounts to approximately RISK NOK 1.9 billion; it will run with instalments until 2028. In addition, a total of NOK 1 000 million was taken out as short-term certificate The group’s operations focus on safe air traffic management using loans during the third and fourth quarters. In 2016, debt amounting procedures and measures to minimise both the probability and to NOK 996 million was repaid. consequences of accidents and serious incidents. Developments with regard to national and international regulatory issues may On 2 February 2017, Avinor AS issued loans worth a total of EUR 500 have financial consequences for the group. million under the company’s EMTN programme. The loan is secured in Norwegian kroner and will run with a fixed interest rate for ten years. Avinor safeguards national sector-policy objectives. The Norwegian state lays down guidelines for a number of factors including airport The group’s total capital amounted to NOK 41.0 billion as at 31 structure, emergency preparedness, aviation fees and public service December 2016 (NOK 38.8 billion), with an equity ratio of 36.4 per obligations. The scope and organisation of sectoral policy guidelines cent (38.2). The equity as defined in the Articles of Association can change over time. 14 AVINOR AS The enterprise’s recognised business assets are long-term in nature, fire extinguishing foam which has spread to the environment at and operations are largely governed by regulations and statutory the airports. Work is currently being conducted to clarify the scope provisions. Consequently, Avinor has a high share of fixed costs of required measures. Risk assessments have been carried out on which vary only slightly according to traffic volume and capacity the potential harm to persons and the environment. The financial utilisation. The group’s earnings and financial value are affected by consequences depend on the scope of the required measures, changes in traffic volume. as well as regulatory requirements and measures available. The Norwegian Environment Agency will require measures to be carried The major airports are a central source of funding for the rest of the out at Evenes Airport, and they will probably issue a joint order for airport network in Norway. The airports’ earnings are vulnerable to the preparation of action plans for the other airports. The order is economic cycles and competition from airports outside Avinor’s likely to be issued in 2017. network. Revenues from services and facilities for passengers are key to the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AVINOR group’s financing. Changes in the framework conditions for the duty-free scheme in particular would have a major impact on the Good corporate governance in Avinor shall ensure the highest group’s earnings and financial value. possible value creation and reduce the enterprise’s risk. The company’s value base and code of conduct are fundamental for Avinor’s Financial hedging instruments are used to mitigate risk linked to corporate governance. fluctuation of foreign interest rates, exchange rates and energy prices. The value of the hedging instruments changes according to As the owner, the State focuses on state-owned companies adherprices in the market and might impact the annual results. When ing to the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance . investing the group’s surplus cash, emphasis is given to the issuer’s The Board of Directors considers it important to follow the recomsolidity and the liquidity of the investment. The group’s cash mendations wherever relevant. The Norwegian Code of Practice for reserves are deposited in banks on negotiated terms. Corporate Governance is available at www.nues.no. There is disagreement between the Norwegian Armed Forces and Avinor has issued bonds that are listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange Avinor with respect to allocation of costs at airports with joint operand Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Oslo Stock Exchange has been ations. Avinor has reflected this in the accounts through provisions selected as the group’s home market. The group follows Oslo Stock based on the best discretionary estimate. Exchange’s recommendations for corporate governance wherever relevant. Section 3-3b of the Accounting Act states that entities As a result of the establishment of a new fighter plane base for which are required to submit accounts and defined as issuers under the Norwegian Armed Forces at Ørland, Avinor was asked in 2014 Section 5-4 of the Securities Trading Act must explain their printo assume responsibility for airport operations at Bodø Airport ciples and practice regarding corporate governance either in their by 01 August 2016. The takeover of operations was carried out on annual report or in documents which are referred to in the annual 01 August 2016, according to plan. However, ownership of real report. Section 3.10 of Oslo Stock Exchange's document entitled property and facilities was not transferred, and Avinor is awaitObligasjonsreglene – opptakskrav og løpende forpliktelser (‘The ing clarification of terms from the Ministry of Defence and the bond regulations take-up requirements and ongoing obligations’) Ministry of Transport and Communications. There are unresolved states that borrowers must give an account of their principles and issues relating to the phasing out of the Norwegian Armed Forces practice concerning corporate governance in a corresponding activities in Bodø, and the planning of a potential new airport in manner. The Accounting Act is available from www.lovdata.no. the area is underway. The above mentioned circumstances give rise Oslo Stock Exchange’s regulations can be found at www.oslobors.no. to financial uncertainty related to investments in buildings and facilities as well as future operation in Bodø. For more details about the work of the board of directors and corporate governance within Avinor, please see the separate In connection with the pension settlement in 2005, it was document entitled ‘Corporate Governance in the Avinor Group'. determined that public service pensions should be adjusted for an increase in life expectancy and be made subject to the new pension adjustment rules. However, there were no provisions for CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the coordination of public service pension benefits and new social security rules. Regulations for such coordination have therefore not Avinor’s corporate social responsibility work is based on the CSR been clarified and are thus not considered in the accounts. A new expectations laid down in Avinor’s Articles of Association and public occupational pension solution is being considered, but it has section 3-3c of the Accounting Act. Avinor bases its CSR work on not been clarified what this solution would entail, when it would the OECD’s guidelines for responsible business conduct, and joined enter into force or what the transitional rules would be. A comthe UN Global Compact in 2014. The work includes safeguarding of mittee consisting of representatives of the administration and the human rights, employee rights and social conditions, the external employee organisations has been appointed to evaluate alternative environment and anti-corruption measures. Avinor reports on CSR pension schemes. in accordance with the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (G4/Core). The airports have discharge permits which require risk assessments to identify possible sources of acute pollution which represent For more information about Avinor’s CSR work, including climate, a risk of damage to the external environment. Avinor works the environment, air safety, HSE, legal competency, anti-corrupcontinuously to reduce the risk of environmentally hazardous tion and safe notification, see the chapter on corporate social incidents, while past contamination is being mapped and cleaned responsibility. up. Environmentally hazardous additives have been detected in COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 15 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Absence due to illness was 4.7 per cent (4.6 per cent) in 2016. Active efforts have been made to reduce breaches of working hours Avinor takes part in numerous projects which contribute to provisions stipulated in the Norwegian Working Environment Act. optimising the use of Norwegian airspace. The work contributes to increased safety, better capacity, more efficient service deliveries Avinor aims for there to be no injuries resulting in absence. and reduced environmental impact. In 2016, there were 20 injuries among the Avinor group’s own For more details about Avinor’s research and development, please employees that resulted in absence. This area is monitored closely see the chapter on corporate social responsibility. both with regard to own employees and other staff at the airports. Preventive HSE work is an important priority area, and measures are actively being carried out throughout the company. PERSONNEL AND ORGANISATION For details of Avinor as an employer, see the chapter on corporate The group had 3 074 (3 157) permanent employees at the end of the social responsibility. year. In total, work corresponding to 3 115 (3 327) full-time equivalents was carried out by permanent and temporary employees. The average age of all employee segments in the group was 46 (44.4). OUTLOOK AND FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS Women accounted for 22.1 per cent (24.1 per cent) of permanent employees. The board is not content with the low percentage of Mobility and efficient air transport are essential for social development women in the group. Increasing the percentage of women employand contribute to strengthening economic growth in both the regions ees is a goal of Avinor’s, even though many professions within and in Norway as a whole. Avinor’s high level of activity and investment Avinor have a male majority. The group is actively working to recruit will be continued to ensure we fulfil our social mission of providing women, both in general and to these professions. The percentage of good regional, national, European and intercontinental air services. women in the board is 50 per cent and in the group management 25 per cent. Air traffic is expected to increase in 2017. However, uncertainty relating to socio-economic developments may affect this picture. Emphasis is placed on ensuring that employees have equal opporAvinor will continue its efforts to improve the company’s envitunities in the group, irrespective of gender, age, functional ability, ronmental performance and be a driving force for climate and ethnicity or cultural background. Avinor has a central distribution environment work in the aviation industry. and conducts systematised performance reviews to ensure a neutral salary and career development. Employee surveys confirm As a supplier of air navigation services, we closely monitor the interthat employees believe they have equal opportunities. Commitment national deregulation of and competition-related developments to the group is strong. within tower and approach services. Avinor’s air navigation services will be a competitive and preferred supplier in a future competiAvinor’s strategy plan for 2014-2020 has a high restructuring tion-exposed market, and will make the necessary adjustments to tempo. The management and the trustees feel strongly about a meet this target. constructive cooperation to further develop the business. Based on the Basic Agreement, the parties developed a model for continuous The group has at present an extensive strategic sourcing process, improvement. This will be continued and strengthened with and will facilitate the further development of efficient supplier training in Lean as a work method. The management development markets. In addition, the group will facilitate innovation processes. programme entitled Avinors Lederplattform (Avinor’s Leader In accordance with the group’s modernisation programme, the Platform) has a stronger focus on managing change and continuous effort to increase effectiveness and productivity will continue. improvement than was previously the case. The Board would like to thank all employees and partners for their excellent efforts during 2016. Oslo, 29 March 2017 The Board of Directors of Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Tone M. Lindberg Eli Skrøvset Chairman of the Board Vice Chairman Linda Bernander Silseth Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Per Erik Nordsveen Heidi Anette Sørum Grete Ovnerud Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 16 AVINOR AS Corporate Governance The aim of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance is to ensure that companies that are listed on regulated markets in Norway practise corporate governance that clarifies the role of shareholders, the Board of Directors and the day-to-day management beyond what follows from legislation. This statement has been prepared in accordance with the structure ·· The activities of the Company may be operated by the Company of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance of itself, by wholly owned subsidiaries, by other companies which 30 October 2014, with the adjustments required because Avinor is are owned by the Company in whole or in part or by companies a wholly state-owned limited company. In addition to the general with which the Company cooperates provisions of the Norwegian Limited Liability Companies Act, ·· Insofar as possible, the Company shall be self-financing, through special provisions apply to state-owned limited companies. earnings generated by its main activities and other commercial activities associated with its airports. Within the Company, The basic premise for Avinor’s operations is that safety is parainter-company financing between the commercially profitable mount and prioritised ahead of any other considerations. After this, and unprofitable units shall be established. the greatest emphasis is placed on providing efficient services to ·· The company shall carry out the duties imposed by society as customers and society. stipulated by the owner The Avinor group’s vision is to create valuable relations. We want The company’s Articles of Association are available at www.avinor.no. individuals, businesses and communities to value and derive clear and specific advantages from the products and services we Avinor’s mission is to carry out comprehensive operation of 46 deliver. Our behavioural values are open, accountable, dynamic and airports as well as the air navigation services in Norway. Avinor’s customer-oriented. operations are responsible for and develop essential public services throughout the country, and shall be run with high priority on The group’s code of conduct was most recently revised in the spring safety and environmental considerations. To meet the owner’s of 2012. The code of conduct applies to Board members, employees, expectations, strategic primary objectives have been set in economy contracted personnel and others who work for the group. The code and finance, society and the environment, air safety and HSE, provides basic rules for personal conduct and business practices customers and partners and personnel and organisation. and will help us make the right choices when we, as a company or individual employee, face ethical dilemmas. The code expresses the group’s attitudes in interaction with customers, suppliers, EQUITY AND DIVIDENDS colleagues and the wider community. The Company’s share capital is NOK 5 400 100 000, divided into The code of conduct is available at www.avinor.no. 540 010 shares, each with a nominal value of NOK 10 000. The company’s equity at any time shall be at least 40 per cent of the sum Avinor has joined the UN Global Compact. The group reports total of the company’s recognised interest-bearing long-term loans according to the principles in the Global Reporting Initiative (G4). and equity at any given time. Avinor is a member of Transparency International Norway. Avinor AS is a limited liability company owned by the State. Shareholders’ rights are safeguarded by the responsible cabinet minister or his deputy at the general meeting. The general meeting BUSINESS is not bound by the distribution of dividends proposed by the Board of Directors. Dividends are declared each year. The Office of the Avinor is a group with activities in the transport sector in Auditor General monitors the management of the Norwegian state’s Norway. The parent company Avinor AS is wholly owned by the interests and can carry out any inspections that it deems necessary. Norwegian state represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The group’s head office is in Oslo. The company’s The Board of Directors does not have the authority to increase the operations are described in the Articles of Association: share capital. ·· The Company’s social purpose is to own, operate and develop Equal treatment of shareholders and a nationwide network of airports for the civil sector and a transactions with close associates combined air navigation service for the civil and military sectors Avinor AS has one class of shares. The shares are not listed on a ·· The company’s operations shall be carried out in a safe, efficient stock exchange and there are no transactions involving the shares. and environmentally-friendly manner and ensure good accessibility for all groups of travellers COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 17 Intra-group agreements are entered into in accordance with the it considers any other matters that must be dealt with by the general arm’s length principle on ordinary commercial terms. All such meeting, according to law or the Articles of Association. agreements are made in writing. The Board of Directors, CEO and auditor who audited the previous Transactions with close associates year’s accounts are invited to the general meeting. The Chairman The Board is not aware of any transactions during 2016 between of the Board and CEO are obligated to attend the general meeting. the company and its shareholders, Board members, executive The other Board members, the auditor and the Office of the Auditor employees or close associates of these that may be characterised as General are entitled to attend the meeting. not immaterial transactions. The agenda is set by the Ministry of Transport and Board members and executive employees are required to submit an Communications. annual statement concerning close associates. The minutes from the general meeting are available to the public. Guidelines for Board members and executive employees The group's code of conduct has a specific section on how to manage Nomination committee conflicts of interest. The code states that employees must never be The general meeting of Avinor AS consists of the Norwegian state involved in or attempt to influence a decision if they have a conflict of represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. interest or questions could be raised about their impartiality. Group The general meeting has not appointed a Nomination Committee. employees may take on second jobs or directorships in addition to their main employment in Avinor, as long as these do not conflict with the Corporate assembly, Board of Directors: employee’s duty of loyalty, impartiality or proper performance of duties. composition and independence Pursuant to the Articles of Association, two or three members of The code of conduct also contains provisions on impartiality. If the Board of Directors and alternates shall be elected by and from there is doubt as to whether the person concerned is impartial, the the employees pursuant to the provisions of the Limited Liability issue must be discussed with the immediate manager. Companies Act concerning the employees’ right to representation on the company’s Board. The company does not have a corporate The state as shareholder assembly in accordance with an agreement with the employees. For Avinor is wholly owned by the Norwegian state. The Ministry of such cases, the Articles of Association stipulate that the employees Transport and Communications meets quarterly with the company. can elect an extra Board member and alternate. During these meetings, the company updates the owner about operations, financial developments, CSR performance and other The Corporate Democracy Committee has approved the corporate issues considered relevant to the owner at that time. No decisions scheme whereby employees of Avinor AS and its subsidiaries may are made at these meetings, and the company does not receive any be elected to the Board of Directors. Representatives are elected by guidelines on how it should respond to individual issues. and from the employees every second year. Freely negotiable shares The Board consists of six shareholder-elected members and four There are no provisions in the Articles of Association that entail any representatives elected by and from the employees. The percentage limitations in the negotiability of the company’s shares. of women on the Board is 50. The Board Chairman is elected by the general meeting. All Board GENERAL MEETINGS members are elected for two years. The Transport and Communications Minister constitutes the The Ministry of Transport and Communications does not have its company’s general meeting, and is the company’s highest authority. own Board members, but in accordance with the Norwegian state’s In accordance with Section 20-5 of the Limited Liability Companies principles of good corporate governance, all Board members are Act, the Ministry of Transport and Communications is responsible expected to seek to safeguard the common interests of the comfor calling the annual and extraordinary general meetings. The pany and shareholders. The composition of the Board of Directors Ministry also determines how the meetings will be called. Notice of is such that, in aggregate, it can safeguard the owner’s interests a general meeting must be issued at least one week in advance; see and the company’s need for skills, capacity and diversity. Executive Sections 20-5 and 5-10 of the Limited Liability Companies Act. employees are not members of the group’s Board of Directors, and they do not own shares in the company. The annual general meeting is held each year by the end of June. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the annual general meeting The owner has a meeting with each Board member once a year. shall approve the annual report and accounts, including distribution of dividends. It also approves the auditor’s remuneration, establishes At the turn of the year 2016/2017, the Board consisted of: remuneration for the Board of Directors for the impending period, stipulates salaries and other remuneration to executive personnel, ·· Chairman since 2010 Ola Mørkved Rinnan, 67 and appoints shareholder-elected members of the Board. In addition, ·· Vice Chairman since 2012 Ola H. Strand, 59 18 AVINOR AS ·· Board member since 2011 Eli Skrøvset, 51, CFO Eksportkreditt Norge The Board of Directors has established a remuneration committee ·· Board member since 2013 Tone Merethe Lindberg, 44, as a preparatory body in matters relating to remuneration of self-employed executive employees in the company. The committee shall prepare ·· Board member since 2015 Herlof Nilssen, 58, guidelines for and cases concerning remuneration of executive Managing Director Helse Vest RHF employees, and continuously assess and monitor the group’s policy ·· Board member since 2016 Linda Bernander Silseth, 54 in this area. A unified Board has prepared a set of instructions for ·· Empl.-elected Board member since 2011 Grete Ovnerud, 50 the committee’s work. The instructions are reviewed annually and ·· Empl.-elected Board member since 2011 Heidi A. Sørum, 49 updated as required. The committee met on five occasions in 2016. ·· Empl.-elected Board member since 2013 Per Erik Nordsveen, 39 ·· Empl.-elected Board member since 2015 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen, 57 At the turn of the year 2016/2017 the committee consisted of: Mari Thjømøe, 54, was replaced by Linda Bernander Silseth at the ·· Ola H. Strand (Chair) 2016 Annual General Meeting. Thjømøe had been a Board member ·· Herlof Nilssen since 2014. ·· Per Erik Nordsveen Information about each Board member is available at www.avinor.no. The Board of Directors has established an HSE committee as a preparatory body in matters pertaining to HSE. The committee is Eight Board meetings were held in 2016. All Board members responsible for assessing relevant aspects of the group’s operations attended the meetings, with very few exceptions. relating to HSE at an overall level. The committee shall support the Board in exercising its responsibility for internal control, the Board of Directors’ report and annual report, and the overall HSE risk profile. WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS A unified Board has prepared a set of instructions for the committee’s work. The instructions are reviewed annually and updated as The Board of Directors follows the requirements stipulated for required. The committee met on three occasions in 2016. the management and supervision of the company pursuant to the Limited Liability Companies Act. Pursuant to the Articles of At the turn of the year 2016/2017 the committee consisted of: Association, the Board of Directors shall ensure that the company is socially responsible. The Board of Directors’ duties are stipulated ·· Tone Merethe Lindberg (Chair) in separate rules of procedure. The rules are reviewed annually ·· Linda B. Silseth and updated in the event of changes to the relevant regulations ·· Heidi Sørum or otherwise as required. The Board of Directors sets an annual ·· Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen agenda for its work, with particular focus on goals, strategy and implementation. The Board of Directors assesses its work and competence on an annual basis. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The rules of procedure contain a separate section on impartiality, To ensure the holistic management of the company, a separate stating that each Board member is individually responsible for raismanagement system has been prepared, which consists of ing issues concerning any conflict of interest, and must be absent management documents, contingency plans, safety procedures and from deliberations where the member has a conflict of interest. processes for the management and control of operations. In case of doubt, the matter shall be submitted to the Chair of the Board. The minutes of the Board meetings shall reflect when one of Annual risk assessments of the group’s activities are performed, the Board members is disqualified due to a conflict of interest. and measures to manage the risk situation are evaluated and implemented. The Board of Directors reviews the company’s risk New Board members are provided with relevant information on management and internal control on an annual basis. the company and the work of the Board. This information is also available through the electronic Board portal. Avinor has established an internal audit function as part of the group’s internal control system. The group’s internal audit function The CEO’s responsibilities and duties are defined in instructions works in accordance with a mandate adopted by the Board and puradopted by the Board. The instructions are reviewed and updated suant to standards laid down by the Institute for Internal Auditors. as required. The company’s appointed auditor shall review the management’s The Board has established an audit committee as a preparatory procedures annually. body to support the Board of Directors as they execute their responsibility for financial reporting, auditing, internal control Systems for internal control and risk management relating to the and overall risk management. A unified Board has prepared a financial reporting process set of instructions for the committee’s work. The instructions are reviewed annually and updated as required. The committee met on Together with Avinor’s organisation, management forums and five occasions in 2016. reporting lines, our code of conduct and core values establish the foundation for a good internal control environment with respect At the turn of the year 2016/2017 the committee consisted of: to financial reporting. ·· Eli Skrøvset (Chair) Business and support processes that are essential to financial ·· Herlof Nilssen reporting have been identified. This includes processes related ·· Grete Ovnerud to investment projects, revenues, financial items, closing of COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 19 accounts and IT systems that support these processes. Overall the dates for the publication of financial information. This financial risk is managed and assessed centrally, while transaction mancalendar is available on the company’s website and the Oslo Stock agement is subject to both centralised and decentralised controls. Exchange’s website. Financial information is published in the form of Considerable importance is attached to thorough documentation a stock exchange notice before it is made available at www.avinor.no. and assessment of important valuation items. The group presents a complete set of annual financial statements Control measures are carried out in the ongoing production of in conjunction with the Annual Report at the end of March. accounts and through continuous financial monitoring. Systems Accounting figures are reported quarterly. to evaluate/monitor the internal control of the financial reporting process are being developed and assessed on a continuous basis. In accordance with Article 10 of the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is required to submit a plan concerning operations, including those of subsidiaries, to the Transport and REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Communications Minister every year. The contents of the plan shall include the following: The general meeting determines the remuneration of the Board and its sub-committees. Remuneration is not performance-based ·· A status description of the market and the company group, and no options are issued to Board members. Shareholder-elected including developments within the company group since the Board members do not generally perform any special tasks for the submission of the previous plan. company beyond their position on the Board. Their remuneration ·· The key features of the activities of the company group for the is stated in a note to the annual income statement. forthcoming years, including major reorganisations, further development and the phasing out of existing activities and Remuneration paid to the Board during 2016 amounted to a total development of new ones. of NOK 2 367 000 (including fees paid to alternates for employ·· The company group’s level of investment, significant investments ee-elected members for one meeting). The remuneration breaks and financing plans. down as follows: Board Chairman NOK 421 500, Vice Chairman ·· An assessment of economic developments during the period of NOK 255 000, other Board members NOK 210,000. Alternates the plan. receive NOK 11 000 (NOK 10 500, first six months of 2016) for every ·· A report on measures and results concerning the company’s meeting they attend. social tasks, social duties and social responsibility. In 2016, members of the audit committee received remuneration The Board of Directors shall present to the Minister of Transport totalling NOK 141 500, comprising NOK 64 500 to the Chairman and Communications all significant changes to such plans that and NOK 38 500 to the other two members. have previously been submitted. In 2016, members of the remuneration committee received remuneration totalling NOK 21 250, comprising NOK 11 250 to the TAKEOVER Chairman and NOK 5 000 to the other two members. Avinor AS is wholly owned by the state represented by the Ministry Members of the HSE committee received remuneration totalling of Transport and Communications. Accordingly, this point in the NOK 26 250 in 2016, comprising NOK 11 250 to the Chairman and code of practice is not relevant to the company. NOK 5 000 to the other members. AUDITOR REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES Avinor has an independent external auditor appointed by the general The Board of Directors appoints the CEO and stipulates the CEO’s meeting based on a recommendation from the full Board of Directors. salary following preliminary consideration by the remuneration comThe auditor submits a plan for the auditing work to the Board of mittee. The Board evaluates the CEO’s work and salary terms annually Directors annually. Each year the auditor prepares a letter to the following preliminary consideration by the remuneration committee. Board of Directors (Management Letter), which summarises the audit of the company and the status of the company’s internal control. The CEO recommends to and informs the remuneration committee regarding remuneration for executive employees who report to the CEO. The auditor has a yearly meeting with the Board without the management being present. The auditor also has a yearly meeting The Board of Directors has prepared a statement on determining with the Audit Committee without the management being present. salaries and other remuneration for executive employees. The The auditor is entitled to attend the company’s general meeting. statement is discussed at the annual general meeting. The auditor’s remuneration is broken down into auditing and Remuneration of executive personnel is described in Note 6 to the other consulting services, and is specified in Note 8 to the financial financial statements. statements. The general meeting shall approve the auditor’s remuneration. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Public information on the group is provided by the group’s management. Each year the group prepares a financial calendar indicating 20 AVINOR AS Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholder dialogue and Corporate Social Responsibility CRS is an integrated aspect of Avinor’s strategic planning and the governance of the group. Based on the dialogue with our stakeholders, we report on the following main focus areas within CSR: ensure good air traffic services for all of Norway, be a driving force within overcoming climate and environmental challenges, be a professional and fair employer and ensure responsible business conduct. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 21 Avinor’s operations affect virtually the whole country and the entire The dialogue at the highest political level primarily takes place via population, and emphasis is placed on establishing and mainAvinor’s owner, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, taining good and systematic dialogue with our key stakeholders. as well as via the Standing Committee on Transport and Dialogue with those who are dependent on our services or otherCommunications, in consultation with the Ministry of Transport wise affected by our operations is a decisive factor in establishing and Communications. The stakeholder dialogue at political level the priorities, which best serve our customers and the country. and public authority level largely takes place through regular meetings. The dialogue is organised under the auspices of the group’s management and Board of Directors. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Extensive dialogue also takes place with political and administraThe list of key stakeholders has remained relatively stable over tive management locally at municipal and county level. Avinor is time, but the group management regularly reviews the stakeholder working to strengthen and systematise this dialogue. Business polanalysis and considers possible updates, including which topics icy committees are established in a number of municipalities and should be given priority in the dialogue. counties where Avinor is represented. Local, political stakeholders are also represented here. Once a year, a joint meeting is organised Safety and security, finance, capacity, reliability, service at airports, between the county authorities and Avinor’s management. accessibility and universal design, as well as how the group tackles aviation’s challenges relating to climate and the environment, are Dialogue with Avinor’s suppliers of goods and services takes place the pivotal themes in the follow-up of stakeholders. partly at formal meetings and partly through negotiations and contract follow-up. There is a particular focus on tender documenSpecific stakeholder analyses are carried out on individual projects tation, as well as templates and guidelines linked to processes and and cases, e.g. in connection with major expansion projects, deliveries. Avinor’s anti-corruption work, and work to make sure changes of approach and departure flight paths and the implemenworking conditions are in line with universal human rights and tation of new rules and regulations. current regulations, are key aspects of the dialogue. Avinor’s external stakeholders can be divided into the following Internally within the group, the collaboration model between main categories: employee representatives and management is being further developed to ensure good working conditions, stable operations ·· Ministry of Transport and Communications and other ministries and cost-effectiveness throughout the group. Avinor employees ·· National, regional and local politicians/decision-makers are represented on Avinor’s corporate Board, holding four of ten ·· Customers: seats. There are also employee-elected Board members on Avinor ·· Airlines and helicopter companies Flysikring AS’s Board of Directors. ·· Passengers ·· Regulatory aviation authorities and other supervisory authorities ·· International aviation authorities FOUR MAIN FOCUS AREAS CONCERNING CSR ·· Armed Forces ·· Commercial partners at the airports Based on our dialogue with stakeholders and the group’s overarch·· Business and industry, centrally and in the regions ing strategy, Avinor has identified four CSR focus areas: ·· Suppliers ·· Environmental organisations and other voluntary organisations ·· Avinor will ensure good aviation services for the whole of within e.g. health Norway, and perform our role in society in a safe, efficient and ·· The media environmentally-friendly manner ·· Alliance partners/international partners ·· Avinor will be a driving force in the work on climate and environ·· Domestic and international competing airports mental challenges within aviation ·· Airport neighbours ·· Avinor will be a good, professional employer ·· Stakeholders at airports ·· Avinor shall ensure responsible business ·· Municipal authorities and county councils Avinor’s CSR work is based on the CSR-related expectations For the dialogue with the airlines, there are many formal and laid down in Avinor’s Articles of Association and the Norwegian informal forums. At the highest level, a collaborative forum has been Accounting Act, and on the OECD's guidelines for responsible established which meets four to six times a year. In addition, special business conduct. Avinor joined the UN Global Compact in 2014. committees have been established at the major airports AOC This report was prepared in accordance with the principles of the (Airline Operators Committee) which also meet regularly. Issues Global Reporting Initiative (G4/Core). linked to climate and the environment, as well as traffic development and capacity at airports, are key topics in the dialogue with the Avinor does not have dedicated staff for CSR. The Executive Vice airlines. President for communication and markets is responsible for the follow-up and reporting of Avinor’s CSR work, and work on the Passenger dialogue mainly takes place through customer surveys. respective topics is carried out in the line. 22 AVINOR AS CSR targets and results in 2016 Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway TARGET RESULTS Punctuality: 88% within 15 min. ·· 87% Regularity: 98% ·· 99% All airports must be certified in accordance with ·· In May 2016, Avinor AS was certified as an airport operator for civil aviation the applicable regulations prepared by the EASA ·· Kristiansund, Bodø and Svalbard airports received certificates in 2016; the rest in 2017 Air travel shall be accessible to all ·· All our airports will be subject to a universal design survey by summer 2018 ·· Universal design in connection with new builds and alterations; ref. New terminal areas and associated underlying infrastructure at Oslo Airport and a new terminal at Bergen Airport Avinor shall streamline, modernise and invest ·· Modernisation programme on schedule in increased capacity ·· Oslo Airport and Bergen Airport on schedule ·· Major airport studies carried out: Lofoten, Mo i Rana, Hammerfest, Bodø ·· Partnership with the Kongsberg Group and Indra concerning the development of remotelyoperated towers ·· Avinor Flysikring AS has the lowest unit prices in Europe. Attracts traffic to Norwegian airspace and helps to boost revenues ·· Avinor and Yeti Snow Technology AS (YETI) entered into a partnership concerning the development of a prototype for driverless snow-clearance. Ready for testing in 2018 Avinor shall work to improve the customer ·· Simpler international – domestic transfer experience ·· Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey: Satisfaction levels among our passengers have never been higher ·· Substantial capacity increases ·· Portal Norway concept established at the largest airports Avinor shall prevent accidents and incidents ·· No serious aviation incidents occurred where Avinor was a contributory party; one aviation and ensure good preparedness accident without injury ·· Established system for the registration of operational risks ·· Portal established for reporting of non-conformities by suppliers and commercial partners ·· Procedures introduced to ensure that drones do not represent a hazard to aviation COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 23 Avinor will be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation TARGET RESULTS By 2020, the company’s own controllable ·· Avinor’s own, controllable greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations reduced by greenhouse gas emissions will be halved compared approx. 900 tonnes compared with 2015 with 2012 ·· Framework agreement established for the purchase of biodiesel which fulfils the authority’s sustainability requirements, and contains no palm oil ·· Transition to electric vehicles ·· Oslo, Trondheim, Kristiansand, Bergen and Stavanger airports accredited in the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) scheme Avinor shall contribute to reducing greenhouse gas ·· Reduction in overall greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuel sold for civil purposes in emissions from surface access and aviation traffic international and domestic traffic at Norwegian airports in 2016 ·· Permanent use of curved approaches to OSL resulted in a reduction in CO2 emissions of 3200 tonnes ·· Jet biofuel is available to all airlines refuelling at Oslo Airport. ·· Oslo Airport has the highest proportion of public transport users in terms of surface access in Europe; over 70 per cent ·· Electric aircraft relevant to the aviation of the future Certify the environmental management and ·· Certification audits carried out on the first group of airports in 2016 operational environmental work in accordance with ISO 14001 Avinor’s overall energy consumption shall be ·· Avinor’s overall energy consumption rose from 2015 to 2016. Due to high level of reduced construction activity and larger building portfolio Avinor shall achieve a source separation rate ·· The source separation rate for the group in 2016 was 48 per cent; OSL 52 per cent for waste of 60 per cent No violations of discharge permits ·· More de-icing chemicals than permitted used at ten airports ·· Two violations of discharge permits in the watercourses around Oslo Airport ·· Two minor violations of discharge permits for groundwater at Oslo Airport ·· Six cases of ground pollution; three were old cases of PFAS pollution ·· PFOS: Treatment of groundwater at Oslo Airport is under way and showing good results 24 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer TARGET RESULTS Create a common improvement culture across ·· Skills survey carried out the group ·· Close and constructive partnership with the trade union representatives ·· 450 people completed Avinor’s management development programme ·· 16 new apprenticeship places created; overall target for 2017 is 33 Absence due to illness 4.5 or less ·· Absence due to illness in 2016: 4.7 per cent ·· One employee appointed as a health motivator at all regional airports LTI rate 3.0 ·· LTI rate in 2016: 4.0 ·· LTI rate for the terminal extension project at OSL: 2.8 ·· LTI rate for the new terminal Flesland: 3.75 Reduce violations of working hours regulations ·· Total reduction for the group from 2015 to 2016: 1 per cent 17 per cent reduction in violations of working ·· Increased by 12 per cent hours regulations where an agreement concerning ·· New targets have been set for 2017; focus on continuous monitoring extended working hours has been established Avinor shall ensure responsible business conduct TARGET RESULTS Employees, suppliers and commercial partners ·· All employees complete a course on Avinor’s code of conduct shall be familiar with and follow Avinor’s code of ·· Anti-corruption programme with a focus on preventive and controlling activities established conduct ·· Member of Transparency International Norway ·· Contractual conditions introduced which ensure that suppliers have a code of practice and take corporate social responsibility seriously ·· Whistleblowing committee set up ·· Received 113 enquiries during 2016; all were processed COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 25 26 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway Avinor’s role in society is to own, operate and develop a national network of airports for the civilian sector and a joint air navigation service for the civil and military sectors. The company’s operations shall be carried out in a safe, efficient and environmentally friendly manner and ensure good accessibility for all groups of passengers. In addition to this social mission, the Norwegian parliament THE SOCIETAL BENEFITS OF AVIATION has also assigned Avinor a number of other tasks that benefit society in general. Examples of this include air ambulance Efficient air transport is essential for social development. In preparedness, training of air traffic controllers, the provision Norway great distances, challenging winter conditions and a of assistance to the rescue services, meteorological services, dispersed population all combine to make air transport vital for facilitating general aviation and air sports, as well as assessments settlement, business and industry. for and participation in the national civil protection work and emergency preparedness 1). Norway aims to make aviation accessible to all. Two thirds of the population can reach an airport within one hour. In Western 1) In 2016, Avinor analysed the costs relating to the tasks that are not directly linked to the social mission. The aim was to be able to take account of such costs in connection with competition and benchmarking. This is important for Avinor Flysikring AS in particular, given the competition for tower services, for example. Such costs are also of importance for airport operations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 27 Norway and Northern Norway, two thirds of inhabitants can reach the same time ensuring safe and stable operation with as little negaan airport within 30 minutes. tive impact on customers as possible. The new Oslo Airport opens in 2017, while the new terminal in Bergen is set to open in August. Today, aviation is one of the prerequisites which enable Norway to maintain a decentralised industry and settlement structure. It is Avinor and the other transport agencies have recommended that, absolutely vital for the country's tourism, both to bring tourists to when it considers the National Transport Plan for 2018-2029, the the gateway of Oslo Airport and to transport them to popular tourNorwegian Parliament gives its approval for the construction of a ist destinations. Air transport is also a prerequisite for nationwide third runway at Oslo Airport when the need arises. There are two cultural and sports activities and a decentralised education system. possible sites, one east and one west of the airport. The transport agencies are recommending the eastern option. Moreover, aviation is important for transporting fresh seafood to an international market. This market is expanding and transport In spring 2015, Avinor prepared a new assessment of the airport services are in great demand. Avinor is planning to expand cargo structure in Norway. Avinor decided not to propose the closure of services, with a focus on facilitating the export of fresh produce. In any airports over the next four years. This is subject to the condition 2016, plans were launched to build a large seafood centre at Oslo that costs are reduced by NOK 100-150 million by 2019. Airport, which could be ready by around 2020. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has tasked Avinor Aviation is an important part of the Norwegian health sector. In with investigating the opportunities to establish a new regional addition to ensuring high emergency preparedness, air transport is airport in Lofoten. Avinor has carried out an assessment of the vital for efficient specialisation and production in the health sector. meteorological prerequisites for constructing an airport on Gimsøy. Around 30 000 medical transport flights take place each year. In In November 2016, it was decided not to proceed with the Gimsøy addition, around 300 000 patients are transported on scheduled option. Avinor will prepare a regional analysis for Lofoten/Ofoten flights. Every year, approximately 150,000 passengers with reduced and Vesterålen, which will be completed by 1 June 2018. mobility make journeys aided by an assistant from the airports. On behalf of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Around 30 000 people are directly employed by the Norwegian Avinor has completed and submitted a feasibility project with a cost aviation industry. Including ripple effects such as aviation supplies, estimate and concession application for a possible new airport at this figure is about 60 000 employees. Hauan in Mo i Rana. Whether or not the airport will be built will likely be decided in 2017 in connection with the 2018-2029 National The oil and gas sector in Norway accounts for a high proportion of Transport Plan. If the project is approved, Avinor assumes the business travel by air in Norway, but there has been a considerable company will receive funding for the construction, as detailed in downturn in recent years. This is linked to reduced activity levels Report No. 38 to the Storting 2012/2013. in this sector. A total of 499 242 offshore helicopter journeys were made in 2016, down almost 18 per cent from 2015. In the background document to the National Transport Plan 20142023, two potential locations for a new airport in Hammerfest were proposed: Grøtnes and Fuglenesdalen. Meteorological measureSTREAMLINING, MODERNISATION AND INVESTMENTS ments are still being taken for Fuglenesdalen, but have been comIN CAPACITY IMPROVEMENTS pleted for Grøtnes. Avinor will work on measurements and findings at both sites, and a report will be completed by autumn 2017. Avinor is implementing a raft of measures to modernise and streamline the organisation and facilitate further growth in the Avinor has also investigated costs and an implementation plan for aviation sector. This work continued in 2016. a new airport in Bodø. It is estimated that a new airport, including runway system, navigation system and essential operating facilities Modernisation programme for Avinor, would cost between NOK 4.5 and 5.0 billion. This estimate A modernisation programme was initiated in 2014. The aims of is subject to considerable uncertainty. Avinor recommends that this programme are to reduce annual operating costs, modernise the airport be relocated, provided that the group is reimbursed for operations and make them more efficient, highlight the significance additional costs amounting to between NOK 3.1 and 3.6 billion. The of aviation and reduce the growth in operating expenses. These Norwegian Defence Estates Agency believes that it will be possible to aims will be achieved through the use of new technology and autocover between NOK 1.15 and 1.85 billion of this amount through land mation, competitive tendering and better use of economies of scale sales. A new airport at Bodø could be ready by 2024-2026. in airport operations. The modernisation programme will reduce annual operating costs, from 2018, by NOK 600 million compared The Norwegian government has decided to close Narvik Airport in with the previously estimated costs for this year. The 2015 and 2017. The last flight from Narvik is scheduled to take place on 31 March. 2016 cost saving targets of NOK 150 million and NOK 300 million respectively, were achieved by a wide margin. The target for 2017 is As regards continued operations at Fagernes Airport, Leirin, the NOK 450 million, which will result in total cost savings of NOK 1.5 government has decided that Avinor will operate the airport for billion during the period 2015-2018. charter flights only until the end of 2018. Avinor will cease to own the airport from 1 January 2019. Airport expansion The work on the expansions of Oslo and Bergen airports remained Remotely-operated towers on schedule during 2016 with regard to both costs and progress. A In 2016, Avinor entered into an agreement with the Kongsberg challenging expansion programme is being implemented, while at Group and Indra concerning the development of technology for 28 AVINOR AS remotely-operated tower services. During the period 2017 to 2020, is adopted at all Avinor airports in accordance with applicable 15 of Avinor’s airports are being converted to remotely-operated technical regulations. towers, controlled from a centre in Bodø (phase 1). Avinor expects this initiative to cut the cost of tower services at the 15 airports by Avinor is preparing further standards for terminal and operational 30-40 per cent, and thereby help to maintain a nationwide structure buildings covering universal design and other characteristics, and of airports, in line with Avinor’s social mission. establishing guidelines for the way in which Avinor will build in order to implement universal design. Avinor and the Single European Sky Airspace and airport capacity must be increased in order to handle Universal design will be implemented at airports in connection future growth in traffic. The aims of establishing a single European with new builds or alterations. In the first instance, this covers airspace through the Single European Sky (SES), where the airspace terminal buildings, as well as towers, with regard to the company’s is organised in functional blocks of airspace instead of along own employees. Avinor’s project administration manual includes a national borders, are to streamline traffic management, increase checklist which will ensure that universal design is maintained in the airspace capacity and improve aviation safety. Estonia, Finland, initial phases of the construction process. The checklist is aimed at Latvia and Norway have therefore created the North European Avinor’s own organisation, as well as architects and other partners. Functional Airspace Block (NEFAB) to underpin the requirements linked to the EU’s plans relating to the Single European Sky (SES). The new terminal areas and associated underlying infrastructure This airspace blockworks closely with the Swedish-Danish airspace at Oslo Airport and the new terminal at Bergen Airport will meet block, a partnership which resulted in the establishment of a the requirements for universal design in all aspects of buildings and so-called “Free Route Airspace” in November 2015. The initiative installations. However, Avinor’s airports will continue to vary in enables flights to be planned and executed along more direct terms of standard. For example, jetways between the terminal and routes, which in turn gives fuel savings for the airlines concerned, the aircraft will not be an option at Avinor’s smaller airports. Here, as well as reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. there will be electric stair climbers which are appropriate for the type of aircraft used at these airports. An important factor relating to competition in the en route service is the unit price which can be offered to airlines. Avinor Flysikring AS has one of the lowest unit prices in Europe and has seen a 38 per WORKING TO IMPROVE THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE cent reduction in its unit price in terms of nominal Norwegian kroner since 2009. This attracts traffic to Norwegian airspace and helps Avinor has developed a specific passenger strategy. Avinor’s to boost revenues. Avinor Flysikring is looking at investments in the promise to passengers is to make their journey easier, regardless order of NOK 1 billion in new technology for the en route service. of what situations might arise at our airports. We have worked In addition to fulfilling authority requirements, the technology shift continually to improve the customer experience over the past will lead to substantial improvements in efficiency and help to keep couple of years and this is reflected in positive developments across down the prices charged to the airlines. the airport network. Avinor regularly measures customer satisfaction among passengers and takes part in the global Airport Service Driverless vehicles Quality (ASQ) survey, owned and conducted by the Airport Council Like remotely-operated towers, driverless vehicles can make a International. According to this survey, satisfaction levels amongst major contribution to the work to streamline Avinor’s operations. our passengers have never been higher (see figure). Since 2011, Avinor has had a vision of developing driverless vehicles, particularly in connection with the removal of snow from runways. In 2016, we introduced a raft of measures to deliver even better Avinor and Yeti Snow Technology AS (YETI) formalised a partnerpassenger experiences. ship on 1 November 2016. The aim is to develop a prototype for testing in 2018. The pilot project is a partnership between Avinor The role of host has been a focal point during the past year, and we and Innovation Norway. have set up a specific customer centre in Bodø. We will handle all ACCESSIBLE TO ALL TREND IN PASSENGER SATISFACTION FROM 2015 TO 2016 – ASQ Customer satisfaction score on a scale of 1-5, where 4 is considered “Very good” Universal design must be standard for air transport, and Avinor must ensure that everyone who needs to can plan and carry out 4.50 their journey in an appropriate manner. Avinor is therefore working 4.25 to fulfil the requirements for universal design, in close cooperation with organisations for people with disabilities. Great emphasis 4.00 is placed on cooperating closely with national and regional user 3.75 forums, which has given excellent results. 3.50 In accordance with the “Regulation on universal design of airports, 3.25 and disabled people’s rights in air transport” of 16 July 2013, Avinor is well under way in implementing a mapping process in cooper3.00 AES BGO BOO KRS OSL SVG TOS TRD ation with the Civil Aviation Authority, which will be completed in summer 2018. The mapping of universal design will facilitate Q3 2015 Q3 2016 planned and coordinated initiatives to ensure that universal design COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 29 30 AVINOR AS enquiries at this centre, including those submitted via social media. for punctuality, with departures within 15 minutes, is 88 per We have purchased “social customer care” tools to ensure that cent. Achieving this target depends on the interaction between people who contact Avinor get both feedback and help fast. the airport, airline and airport-related services. Meteorological conditions are another factor. The lower punctuality in 2016 All our airports now offer free drinking water for passengers. particularly applies to Oslo Airport and was partly due to frequent thunderstorms and showers during the summer, resulting in a need Felix & Fiona to reduce traffic levels at certain times to take account of the lower Avinor plays an active role in ensuring that families with children capacity under such conditions. There were also cases of technical have a problem-free journey. Service options and facilities for failure of radar equipment operated by both Oslo Airport and families with children are visible and easy to find through the Felix Avinor Flysikring. Snowfall, fog, freezing fog and Christmas traffic & Fiona characters. During 2016, nursing room facilities were levels were the main causes of the lower punctuality in November installed at all of our airports. Play areas and special activities for and December. children were also provided. In partnership with the Norwegian Cancer Society, we have published our own version of their “sun Flight regularity is a measure of the percentage of scheduled protection” video, with Felix, Fiona and their dad in the main roles. departures that actually take place. Avinor’s target is 98 per cent. This video was shown on Airport Express trains and on our own In 2016, the overall regularity for all airports was close to 99 per digital interfaces in summer 2016. cent. The result has remained more or less the same in recent years. Avinor’s official statistics are based on the airlines’ information Portal Norway about cancellations and changes in scheduled routes. In 2016, To give passengers a warmer welcome to Norway and our airports, Avinor introduced the new ALTi traffic information system at all Avinor has worked with Innovation Norway to develop a modern, airports. With this system, cancellations reported on the actual day sensory concept with sound and images in the airports’ arrival of the flight are reported as actual cancellations. Under the previous areas, called “Portal Norway”. During 2016, we established Portal practice, flight operators could report a cancellation as a scheduled Norway in Tromsø, and a full version has also been integrated in route change up until the day of the flight. This caused some international arrivals at Oslo Airport. uncertainty about the underlying statistical basis. Simplified international – domestic transfer via Oslo Airport Connecting Norway is a pilot scheme which will make it easier AVIATION SAFETY AND SECURITY for passengers arriving from abroad to connect with flights in Norway. Previously, they had to collect their luggage, check in again The regulatory requirements in the field of aviation safety follow and proceed through security. Now passengers on flights covered from Norway’s international obligations through the EEA and ICAO by the scheme may proceed directly to the domestic departure (the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organisation). Based on these lounge. This scheme has now been operational for one year and was obligations, the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority implements relocated to the new North Pier at Oslo Airport in December 2016. Norwegian provisions that Avinor is required to comply with. The scheme has been very positively received amongst both airlines Avinor actively participates in international work, e.g. in the develand passengers. We are continually striving to improve the scheme opment of new aviation-related regulations in Europe, particularly in order to make travelling from abroad via Oslo Airport to the rest airport regulations. of Norway as easy as travelling via other European airports. Within Avinor, safety has the highest priority, and the primary Avinor as a sponsor objective is to prevent accidents and incidents and ensure sound Avinor’s sponsorships shall predominately be aimed at local preparedness. Work is under way on a number of initiatives that initiatives and activities for children and young people. Many have been identified to underpin this objective. Avinor’s work relatairports sponsored activities for children and young people in local ing to aviation safety forms an integral part of the quality assurance communities in 2016. process within Avinor and is adapted to the management structure which has been established within the management system. Avinor supports the Church City Mission in Oslo through the project entitled ‘The neighbour partnership in Bjørvika’. The Church Comprehensive safety management City Mission also organises special activities for children and young In recent years, Avinor has introduced a framework for compeople, where Avinor’s employees participate. Avinor’s Christmas prehensive governance which includes systems for strategic present went to the Church City Mission for their campaign entitled governance, comprehensive risk management, a process-oriented ‘Make someone who is dreading Christmas happy’. management system and a system for handling non-conformities. Under requirements laid down in new EU regulations, Avinor The environmental organisations Zero and Bellona receive financial must prepare and maintain an overview of hazards and risks. support from Avinor and provide specialist support to Avinor in The process for operational risk management was mapped and connection with the work to develop biofuel. approved a couple of years ago and, in 2016, Avinor purchased and developed the tool which is used to register operational risks. Outstanding tasks include the definition of roles in the registration HIGH PUNCTUALITY AND REGULARITY process, some adaptation of the tool, the entry of hazards and risks which we have already identified, and visits to the airports for Overall, punctuality at Avinor’s airports was close to 87 per cent implementation. in 2016, one per cent down from 2015. The Avinor group’s target COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 31 A portal was implemented for the reporting of non-conformities ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS AIRCRAFT INCIDENTS 2015-2016 by suppliers and commercial partners in 2016. The new reporting regulations require non-conformities to be classified according to SERIOUS AVIATION ACCIDENT AVIATION ACCIDENT AVIATION INCIDENT WITHOUT INJURIES WITH INJURIES risk, and work has begun to comply with this requirement. 2016 0 1 0 Work is also under way to quality-assure the numerical basis 2015 2 0 0 from the source data and to develop dashboards as management information. This is a time-consuming task which involves many Serious aviation incidents, aviation accidents without injuries and aviation people, but the result will be data which can be extracted more accidents with injuries where Avinor was a contributory party. The term ‘aviation accident’ follows the definition in BSL A 1-3 (Civil Aviation Regulations). easily using more automated processes. It will provide us with a more accurate and more standardised holistic picture from airport manager to group level. Comprehensive audit programme in 2016 The group works systematically to maintain a good safety culture Under new EU regulations, airport operators must have a strategic and a high level of aviation safety. As one of a number of instruCentral Safety Review Board. These requirements have been prements to be used, regular audits are carried out both on the units sented to what was previously called the Sentral Sikkerhetskomité and within specific disciplines to verify that the group is complying (now the Central Safety Review Board), and discussions have been with all relevant laws and regulations. held concerning a new composition, group perspective, agenda and interface between this strategic committee and the more operaSuppliers are audited regularly to ensure that deliveries are of the tional committees. The agenda has been tightened in accordance correct quality in relation to applicable agreements. The frequency with the EU requirements. of such audits depends on the criticality of the delivery. Suppliers who provide traditional airport services are therefore monitored Further implementation and improvements to the management closely through audits. This ensures that the services are provided system, including safety/security management and a focus on within the framework of Avinor’s certificates. operational risk management and safety/security culture, will take place during 2017. An audit programme is established for periods of one year at a time and approved by the CEO. Any findings from the audits are entered All incidents of a certain severity are followed up. A risk-based as a non-conformity in the non-conformity management system approach is followed within the field of safety/security manageand followed up by the person who is defined as the risk owner. ment, with proactive indicators being established within safety/ Findings that are registered by external parties are followed up by security, and reactive methods being used as sources for working a designated contact person at Avinor through Avinor’s tool for proactively. The reporting culture within the group is good, and non-conformity management. the reports concern potential or less serious circumstances which provide an opportunity for lessons to be learned and improvements Extensive audit resources were utilised during 2016 in relation to to be implemented. The follow-up of irregularities is a high priority the civilian takeover of Bodø Airport and the outsourcing of ground throughout the group. services (surface maintenance services, fire and rescue service and electrical engineering service), in connection with both prior audits Drones and ordinary audits. A total of six audits (internal and external) As a result of the new regulations concerning the use of drones, were conducted in connection with the civilian takeover of Bodø Avinor needs to act consistently with regard to drone activity. A Airport during 2016. separate RPAS team (Remotely Piloted Aircraft System) has been set up to ensure this. Avinor Flysikring AS and Avinor AFIS have Avinor is working towards certification in accordance with ISO drawn up procedures for complying with the requirements laid 14001 (environmental certification requirement). In connection down in the regulations. The aim of the procedures is to ensure that with this, an external certification audit was conducted in operations involving aircraft without a pilot onboard are handled December 2016. With regard to the implementation of environmensafely and consistently in and around both non-controlled and tal management at the airports and as preparation for the external controlled airports. certification audit, 19 implementation audits were carried out within the external environment in 2016. These audits were carried Moreover, Avinor has published maps and rules on its website out in the form of both remote audits and on-site internal audits. concerning drone flying around Avinor’s airports. These are rules for unmanned aircraft within the airport's traffic information and With the exception of implementation audits relating to the control zones. Traffic information and control zones have been external environment, a total of 29 internal audits and 17 audits of established to protect the airspace around the airport and flights external parties (suppliers and other stakeholders at the airports) using the airport. were carried out under the direction of Avinor AS and Oslo lufthavn AS during 2016. Oslo lufthavn AS was also merged with Avinor AS Accidents and serious aviation incidents with effect from 1 January 2016. There was one aviation accident without any injuries in Norwegian aviation in 2016 where Avinor was a contributory party – a collision Findings from audits primarily come under the category of between a helicopter and a car. No serious aviation incidents “Management and follow-up’. Within this category, the trends reveal occurred where Avinor was a contributory party. that most findings lie within the following areas: 1. Management 32 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 33 systems and documentation, 2. Follow-up of daily operations, and 3. Civil protection and crisis preparedness Skills management. Avinor has maintained a strong focus on a high level of security/ safety and sufficient preparedness for dealing with accidents and Within Avinor Flysikring AS, nine audits and two (external) supplier incidents. In order to contribute to good management practice, audits were conducted in accordance with the audit programme. Avinor has established a joint communication platform to increase In addition, DNV GL carried out an audit in connection with the the degree of integration in the crisis management work with the ISO 9001 certificate, and the Civil Aviation Authority conducted six Ministry, the supervisory authority and other stakeholders who supervisory audits on Avinor Flysikring AS. No findings with a high participate in the work relating to threats and crisis management. level of risk were identified. Some findings were linked to: Revitalisation of the Totalforsvaret (Total Defence) concept has ·· The system for the management of printed documents entailed a stronger focus on which services Avinor is expected to ·· Familiarity with underlying safety documents provide. The work to ensure that Avinor meets these expectations ·· Local regulations: references to expired overarching docuhas begun and will continue in the future. Avinor has also placed a mentation were encountered within governance/group-wide particular focus on meeting expectations relating to the new Security procedures Act and the screening of infrastructure and information systems. Security control Certification of Avinor’s airports The threat situation has developed further in relation to previous In May 2016, Avinor AS was certified as an airport operator for years. According to the Norwegian Police Security Service (PST), civil aviation in accordance with common European regulations, Islamic extremists pose the biggest threat as regards acts of prepared by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The CEO terrorism. No information has come to light which suggests that is the Accountable Manager. Norway is particularly exposed to this threat, but Norway has been described as a legitimate target by those responsible for terrorist During 2016, Kristiansund Airport, Bodø Airport and Svalbard threats. Avinor works continually to develop appropriate security lufthavn AS all received a design certificate verifying that the airport measures and collaborates with the police and others to facilitate fulfils the design requirements laid down in the common European rapid and appropriate responses to any incidents. regulations. Avinor has submitted an application for design certificates for 37 airports, including Oslo Airport, and will submit an application In 2016, Avinor built further on previous investments, and all for the remaining airports in spring 2017. All airports which operate airports have now installed equipment to detect explosive particles civil aviation must have a design certificate by the end of 2017. and analyse liquids. At Oslo Airport, security scanners have been purchased following testing in previous years in order to further In connection with the certification process, a number of changes improve security and reduce the burden that security control have been implemented, both in the way in which Avinor operates represent for passengers. Great emphasis is placed on reducing its airports and in the design of the airports. the risk of discrimination and safeguarding the personal integrity of passengers. To reduce the occurrence of discrimination, Avinor Projects, research and development mainly uses technical solutions which do not allow the operator Avinor Flysikring AS is carrying out a number of projects which will to manually select passengers for additional checks. At the same contribute to optimising the use of Norwegian airspace. The aim time, Avinor is investing in equipment which will reduce contact of these projects is better safety, greater capacity, more efficient between security personnel and passengers, to reduce the risk of service deliveries and reduced environmental impact. Through the discriminating action during airport security. One of Avinor’s aims NORWAM project, investments are being made in new technology is to always have both male and female security officers present. which will ensure full surveillance coverage of Norwegian airspace Cubicles or screening possibilities are also available to maintain and result in the phasing out of old technology. This will reduce the personal integrity during checks. company's costs with regard to both investments and operation of the new systems. In addition, a surveillance corridor will be estabAvinor achieved good quality-related results concerning security lished from the mainland to Svalbard, which will provide customers in 2016. The trend from 2015 of a reduction in the number and with a more efficient service. severity of non-conformities continued. The introduction of new elements in the regulations entailed a certain amount of work with Furthermore, the Air Traffic Management system (NATCON) regard to compliance during the implementation period, but overall underwent a major upgrade, which has made it possible to establish the implementation process was very successful. Close, open and a Free Route Airspace concept in partnership with our neighbourproductive partnerships with both suppliers and public authorities ing countries. The introduction of Free Route Airspace means that have contributed to marked improvements within certain areas airlines can fly more direct routes than was previously the case, and where there were previously challenges. thereby reduce their fuel costs. The project has attracted considerable attention internationally and has also received an award from Human trafficking the European Commission. Avinor does not have its own systems for reporting human trafficking. Such cases are entered in the criminal case system and The existing ATM system (NATCON) must be replaced within a handled by relevant authorities such as the police and customs five-year period in order to satisfy future requirements. Avinor authorities. These are present at Avinor’s largest airports, which Flysikring AS has decided to do this in partnership with other interhave given feedback on the success of the collaboration. Avinor national service providers in order to minimise investment costs. encourages all employees to report any dubious situations where The new ATM is scheduled to become operational in Southern human trafficking is suspected. Norway in 2020 and in Northern Norway in 2022. 34 AVINOR AS Avinor will be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation Avinor shall focus on long-term goals linked to the three biggest environmental challenges associated with airport operation: climate, noise and water and land pollution. The environmental work being carried out within the group will be emissions from aircraft and surface access. The largest emissions further strengthened during 2016. Over a period of several years, from Avinor’s operations are generated by fuel consumption by Avinor has been working on a comprehensive environmental pledge Avinor’s own vehicles, followed by energy consumption (including which covers both improvements to environmental management electricity, district heating and other thermal energy) and business and work on the individual environmental disciplines, both travel by aeroplane and car. Other emission sources included in centrally and locally at the airports. Avinor has decided to certify its Avinor’s own emissions are chemicals for the de-icing of runways environmental management and operational environmental work and fire-fighting exercise areas. in accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Oslo Airport was certified as early as 2014. Avinor prepares a greenhouse gas inventory pursuant to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol , and purchases emission allowances to compensate for the group’s own emissions. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In 2016, Avinor’s own, controllable greenhouse gas emissions from Avinor’s climate goals: By 2020, the company’s own controllable airport operations totalled 17 500 tonnes CO2 equivalents, a reducgreenhouse gas emissions will be halved compared with 2012. tion of 900 tonnes compared with 2015. In line with our goal to halve Avinor shall contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions our own controllable greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared from surface access and aviation traffic. with 2012, we recorded a reduction of almost 20 per cent in 2016 compared with 2012. This reduction was mainly due to a general Greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian production, The largest greenhouse gas emission sources at airports are import/export of electrical power, rather than a reduction in Avinor’s aircraft taking-offs and landings, followed by surface access (i.e. energy consumption. Emissions from Avinor’s operations largely greenhouse gas emissions from transport to and from airports). depend on weather conditions during the winter season, due to the Avinor’s own greenhouse gas emissions are linked to operation of need for snow clearance, heating and consumption of de-icing chemithe airports and are relatively small compared with greenhouse gas cals. Fuel consumption has been reduced in the period 2012–2016, SOURCES OF AVINOR’S OWN CONTROLLABLE AVINOR’S OWN CONTROLLABLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION Tonnes CO2-eq. Diesel own vehicles 25 000 Purchased electricity and district heating Svalbard 20 000 Purchased electricity excl. Svalbard Business trips 15 000 Runway de-icing 10 000 Thermal energy Other sources 5 000 0 Per cent 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 35 and large scale phasing-in of second generation biodiesel started In connection with the procurement of vehicles, there is also a at Oslo Airport in 2016. Use of electric and hydrogen cars as well focus on always carrying out an assessment to determine whether as the phasing-in of biodiesel has reduced Avinor’s greenhouse gas fossil fuel-powered vehicles can be replaced with electric vehicles. emissions by about 250 tonnes CO2 equivalents in 2016. Thirteen new administrative vehicles were purchased for Avinor in 2016, five of which were electric and five hybrid. Oslo Airport now Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) is an industry scheme through has 17 electric cars and a hydrogen car, and therefore has Avinor’s which airport operators can gain accreditation. The aim of the scheme largest fleet of zero-emissions vehicles. is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from airports around the world. In 2016, there were no fewer than 156 airports in the scheme, Greenhouse gas emissions from aviation traffic with the result that 31 per cent of global passenger traffic travelled Since 2007, Avinor has worked with the airlines and the Federation via ACA-accredited airports. Within Avinor, Oslo Airport, Trondheim of Norwegian Aviation Industries to facilitate reductions in greenAirport and Kristiansand Airport have been accredited since the house gas emissions. Two reports 3) have been published which foundation of ACA in 2009. Bergen Airport and Stavanger Airport outline emission-reducing measures and compare their effects with have participated since the beginning of 2014. Airports participating anticipated traffic developments. According to the forecasts, greenin the scheme must set binding targets for reductions in emissions, house gas emissions from domestic air traffic could be less in 2025 prepare greenhouse gas inventories and adopt action plans. than in 2007, despite substantial traffic growth. Emissions from international air traffic will probably increase due to significant In 2016, Avinor established a framework agreement for the purtraffic growth. However, this could be offset by the use of biofuels. chase of second generation biofuel. This biofuel meets the criteria for sustainability 2) and does not contain palm oil. In the long term, The most important emissions-reducing measures are associated biofuel will significantly reduce emissions from vehicles. In 2015, with fleet replacements, improving airspace efficiency biofuel and Oslo Airport began testing biodiesel on heavy goods vehicles. electric aircrafts. Following the success of the testing with no operational problems, the test was expanded in 2016. In 2016, Trondheim Airport also According to Statistics Norway (SSB), greenhouse gas emissions started phasing in the use of biodiesel for selected vehicles. Bergen from domestic civil aviation accounted for 2.4 per cent of overall Airport purchased a specific tank for biodiesel in 2016, and will domestic emissions in 2015 (last official figures) (1.28 of 53.9 million phase in the use of biodiesel in 2017. tonnes). It is these emissions which are covered by the Kyoto 2) http://www.miljodirektoratet.no/Documents/publikasjoner/M10/M10.pdf 3) See https://avinor.no/konsern/miljo-og-samfunn/rapporter/ A third report will be published in spring 2017 36 AVINOR AS In November 2015, Free Route Airspace was introduced. This is GHG EMISSIONS FROM NORWEGIAN AVIATION a new airspace organisation system in Norway, Finland, Latvia 1990-2015 and Estonia, which means that the airlines can plan their flights Tonnes CO2-eq. between airports in the optimal manner, without depending on 3 000 000 predefined routes. This means that aircraft can carry less fuel, 2 500 000 which will reduce costs, weight and greenhouse gas emissions. 2 000 000 Jet biofuel 1 500 000 Biofuel was certified for use in civil aviation in 2009. Since then, thou1 000 000 sands of scheduled civilian flights have taken place using biofuel, and there has been a rapid development in the various technologies for 500 000 production of biofuels. Both the aviation industry and the UN’s avia0 tion organisation, ICAO, consider phase-in of biofuel a very important 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. Int. emissions Domestic emissions Total emissions Norway’s first flights using biofuels were conducted in November 2014. In January 2016, Avinor Oslo Airport, in collaboration with AirBP, SkyNRG, Lufthansa Group, KLM and SAS, became the first Protocol and reported in Statistics Norway's figures on greenhouse international airport with regular supplies of biofuel for all airlines gas emissions from Norwegian territory. This is the same in all refuelling there. In the fourth quarter, a new supply of biofuel was countries. In 2015, greenhouse gas emissions from international air received from AltAir in California. It is the first time in the history traffic, meaning from Norwegian airports to the first destination that biofuel has been distributed together with fossil fuels from the abroad, totalled 1.54 million tonnes CO2 equivalent. These emiscentral tanking facility, which has reduced costs significantly. sions are reported annually by the Norwegian Environment Agency to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Avinor has allocated up to NOK 100 million over a ten-year period (UNFCCC). Total greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuel sold at (2013-2022) for measures and projects that will contribute to the Norwegian airports for civilian purposes in 2015 corresponded to phase-in of jet biofuels in Norwegian aviation. Along with the airlines around 5 per cent of Norway's total emissions, in the order of 2.8 and the Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries, Avinor has million tonnes CO2 equivalent – a reduction compared with 2014. explored opportunities to establish large-scale production of biofuels According to IATA 4), total carbon emissions from global aviation for aviation, based on biomass from Norwegian forests. The concluamounted to 781 million tonnes, or approximately 2 per cent of sion is that this can be realised from 2020-2025. Avinor has cooperated global greenhouse gas emissions (36 billion tonnes) in 2015 (last with many stakeholders with regard to the production of jet biofuel official figure). In addition, there is the impact caused by the fact for aviation in Norway. In addition, Avinor supports several research that some emissions occur at high altitudes, which increases the projects related to this, in cooperation with SINTEF and others. environmental impact somewhat. CICERO estimates an additional factor of between 0.8 and 2.5, with a model mean of 1.8. Domestic Large-scale Norwegian production of biofuel for aviation and heavy traffic in Norway only flies at these altitudes to a limited extent 5). road transport may be essential to reach Norway's climate goals. However, this depends on long-term and predictable framework The airlines are continuing the work on conditions. Jet biofuel can also be imported from abroad. energy efficiency and fleet renewal SAS and Norwegian continually renew their fleets and exclusively Electric aircrafts operate the latest generation of aircraft. More fuel-efficient engines, Electric aircrafts could be a viable alternative in domestic traffic in better aerodynamics, reduced weight and more seats mean that the Norway, if the airlines and aircraft manufacturers decide to invest new Boeing 737 aircraft, for example, has about 30 per cent lower in the technology. Airbus’s electric aircraft, the E-Fan, became the fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions per seat kilometre big attraction at the Zero Emission Conference in Oslo in November than the previous generation of aircraft. In 2016, A320 NEO and 2016. Airbus believes that electric aircraft will be used in passenger Boeing 737-Max aircraft started to be introduced. This will result in traffic within few years, and this might become a good alternative a further reduction of around 15 per cent per seat kilometre. at Norwegian airports. In 2018, Airbus will launch a new version of the electric aircraft which will be put into production for the More efficient airspace private aviation market. Norsk Luftsportforbund and Avinor are More efficient airspace along with optimisation of landings and currently in discussions with Airbus with the aim of having one or take-offs are important measures where Avinor has considerable two examples of this aircraft based in Norway to further increase opportunity to make an impact. Better navigation technology the level of interest in zero emissions aviation. allows more precise and flexible approach and departure procedures. In 2016, there were 13,700 curved approaches to Oslo Airport Avinor believes a larger project should be carried out to assess the as a result of the revised noise regulations. This corresponds to potential use of all-electric aircrafts or hybrid aircrafts in coma limited reduction in fuel consumption of 1000 tonnes, which mercial aviation. Together with other players, Avinor will consider is equivalent to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 3200 tonnes. possibilities and challenges, with an aim of introducing this type of Procedures for curved approaches have also been implemented aircraft on domestic routes in Norway within 10-15 years. Avinor at Haugesund Airport and at Harstad/Narvik Airport, and will and the NLF will contact relevant airlines and industrial players gradually be introduced at other airports. and invite them to take part in the project. 4) http://aviationbenefits.org/media/149668/abbb2016_full_a4_web.pdf 5) Lund, Marianne T, Borgar Aamaas, Terje Berntsen and Jan S. Fuglestvedt (2016): ‘Luftfart og klima En oppdatert oversikt over status for forskning på klimaeffekter av utslipp fra fly’, CICERO Report 2016:5. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 37 Surface access the industry and energy sectors. The EU’s aim is for emissions in To improve passenger services, reduce greenhouse gas emissions sectors subject to quota obligations to be 43 per cent lower in 2030 and improve local air quality, Avinor aims to be a driving force and than in 2005. The original intention was for all flights within and to/ facilitator in ensuring that as much of the surface access to airports from EU/EEA countries to be covered by the scheme. However, for as possible takes place by public transport. Challenges relating to the period 2013-2016, it has been decided that only flights within ground transport are linked to both the transport network and the EU/EEA will be covered, pending the introduction of potential types of transport. The residential pattern in the airport impact area global market-based measures organised by ICAO. The EU is now also means that it is not possible to provide everyone with fully considering how this should be taken forward. satisfactory public transport services. The airlines must apply for and be awarded a certain number of free Avinor’s airports consistently have a high proportion of public quotas based on their production in 2010, and must reduce their transport users. Oslo Airport is the highest-placed in Europe, with emissions or purchase quotas for exceeding emissions. The quota more than 70 per cent of passengers using public transport. The price 6) has varied between NOK 235 per tonne CO2 in July 2008 and percentage has increased in recent years, and the aim is to improve NOK 21 per tonne CO2 in April 2013. As of February 2016, quotas it even further. are being sold for around NOK 55 per tonne. The EU is expected to reduce the number of available quotas in the period leading A group of passengers that represent large environmental challenge up to 2030, to achieve its objectives. This will increase the quota are those who drive to the airport to drop off or collect passengers, price and, in the longer term, result in higher costs for Norwegian and then drive home again (so-called ‘kiss & fly’). Avinor is encouraviation. This means that an overall assessment of the aviation aging especially this group to use public transport. industry’s emission reductions must take into account goal achievement in the quota trading scheme, phase-in of sustainable biofuel Most policy instruments to increase the share of public transport and the impact of emissions-reducing measures in the aircraft fleet. are outside the scope of Avinor’s responsibilities, and require cooperation between a number of players. Avinor’s main contribution is On 1 June 2016, an air passenger tax was introduced on all departto facilitate infrastructure at the airports, and provide information ing flights from Norwegian airports. In 2017, this is set to NOK 82 about services to passengers. At group level, Avinor cooperates per passenger. actively with the main airport bus operators in Norway, focusing on the four major airports. The purpose of the cooperation is to The UN’s International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has find strategies to increase the bus companies’ market shares at the adopted carbon-neutral growth from 2020 as a sector target expense of private cars. Avinor also aims to use this knowledge to for international aviation. At the General Meeting in October facilitate increased use of public transport at the smaller airports. 2016, it was agreed to introduce a quota system for greenhouse gas emissions for international aviation, which combined with SHARE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT AT NORWAY’S other initiatives will contribute to achievement of the target. The FOUR LARGETS AIRPORTS first phase of the mechanism lasting six years from 2021 will be voluntary for the states. To date, a total of 66 states, including PUBLIC TRANSPORT SHARE Norway, have voluntarily signed up to take part in this phase. The air traffic between these states represents more than 86 per cent of TARGET TAXI AIRPORT 2009 2014 2015 2016 2020 2016 the international air traffic. Oslo 64 66 71 70 70 4 Aviation infrastructure is self-financing. Financing operation and Stavanger 14 17 18 19 30 24 investments in Avinor’s airport network is covered by airport taxes Bergen 27 34 42 38 50 18 and airport commerce, while air navigation operation and investment is covered by air navigation taxes. The airport taxes represent Trondheim 42 45 52 54 50 9 payment for services used by airlines and passengers in Avinor’s Source: Reisevaneundersøkelsene (RVU) airport network, a principle that is anchored in the global Chicago convention. The air navigation taxes represent payment for services Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim have witnessed very positive trends provided by Avinor Flysikring to the airlines, in the airspace it is in the public transport share in surface access in recent years. Based on these developments, Avinor will further raise the level of ambition towards 2030. For Oslo Airport, the target for 2030 has CLIMATE ADAPTATION already been set to 75 per cent. As a result of substantial historical greenhouse gas emissions, the Taxes and quotas global mean temperature will continue to rise even if emissions Norway is one of the few countries in the world to introduce a are drastically cut in the future. This will result in global climate CO2 tax on domestic flights. In 2016, this tax amounts to NOK 1.10 changes. In Norway, we can expect a warmer, wilder and wetter per litre of jet fuel, or NOK 431 per tonne CO2 (+ 10 per cent VAT). climate, but with considerable regional and local variations. The According to international agreements, CO2 taxes are not to be forecasts produced by climate models indicate that the climate applied to international traffic. could change substantially from around 2040 onwards. The climate of the future must therefore be taken into account in infrastructure Since 2012, civil aviation has been encompassed by the European projects which are currently under way. Emissions Trading Scheme, a cap and trade system, in line with 6) Page 46 of Prop 1 LS 2015-2016: Skatter, avgifter og toll 2016 38 AVINOR AS Recycling Sealed glycol tank Municipal water treatment plant Robust recipient Several of Avinor’s airports have implemented collection systems with a sealed tank for de-icing chemicals. Since 2001, Avinor, the Norwegian Public Roads Administration, All of Avinor’s airports have their own discharge permits which, the Norwegian Coastal Administration and the National Rail among other things, regulate the quantities of de-icing chemicals Administration (now the Norwegian Railway Directorate) have been and chemicals for fire-fighting exercises that can be used. assessing the impact of climate change on their own operations through their work on the National Transport Plan (NTP). In addiDe-icing chemicals are used to ensure there is no snow or ice on tion, Avinor has carried out its own risk and vulnerability analyses. aircraft prior to take-off, and to ensure safe landing conditions by ensuring there is sufficient friction on runways and taxiways. Such A raft of measures has been introduced to reduce climate vulnerade-icing chemicals are not toxic, but they do consume oxygen when bility, including the establishment of new dimensioning criteria for they degrade. This can have an adverse effect on the environment critical infrastructures. Avinor will continue this work. if the tolerance threshold and natural degradation capacity of the water body are exceeded. Avinor is a partner of a centre for research based innovation run by SINTEF, called Klima2050, and through this carries out pilot In order to ensure satisfactory preparedness for accidents and projects relating to issues such as the better treatment of run-off from incidents, fire-fighting exercises must be carried out routinely. Such runways, and maintenance regimes, including the climate adaptation exercises must be conducted at airports with approved fire-fighting of existing buildings. Work is also under way on climate adaptation exercise areas, and a variety of petroleum products must be used to through the ICAO and Airport Council International (ACI). ensure that the exercises are realistic. The fire-fighting exercises are therefore linked to systems for the collection of run-off, which includes oil separators, to protect the natural environment as much as possible. WATER AND LAND Avinor has drawn up a specific procedure for environmental Avinor’s environmental objectives for water and land during monitoring, enabling the documentation of discharges, tolerance the period 2016–2020: No further ground pollution or thresholds and any impact on the surrounding environment. Such deterioration in the aquatic environment will occur in or monitoring programmes can also be used to implement appropriaround the airports. ate measures if non-conformities are identified. As part of Avinor’s modernisation programme, training on sampling techniques was Many different needs must be met in connection with the operation provided at certain airports during 2016. This training will better of airports, and many of the activities entail the use of chemicals with enable the personnel at these airports to follow up discharges into potential discharges. It is an important aspect of Avinor’s corporate the natural environment and impacts on recipients. social responsibility at all times to reduce the use of chemicals, identify the most environmentally-friendly alternatives, and monitor In recent winters, Avinor’s overall consumption of de-icing the impact of airport operations on the surrounding environment. chemicals has increased. This primarily concerns aircraft de-icing COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 39 better control in order to prevent the dispersal of chemicals following application. A collection system and sealed tanks have also been installed at a number of airports. These tanks are connected to the municipal wastewater network and transport the chemicals in the water to more robust recipients, typically fjords with a higher degradation capacity. For many years, Oslo Airport has focused on evaluating the long-term effects of de-icing chemicals on soil and groundwater as a result of their use on runways and taxiways. The availability of oxygen has limited degradation capacity in the most critical areas. As a result of this, 65 wells have been drilled to enable air to be injected into the ground and groundwater. The project was already producing positive results in 2016 in the form of the accelerated degradation of chemicals. During 2016, Avinor was issued with new discharge permits for Leknes and Ålesund, and applications were submitted for new discharge permits for the airports at Ørsta-Volda, Kirkenes and Mosjøen. Six cases of ground pollution were recorded in 2016. However, three of these were old cases involving PFAS pollutants (see below). PFAS Samples in connection with environmental monitoring at Kirkenes airport. Until 2011, Avinor used various types of polyfluorinated alkyl substances (PFAS) in foam for fire-fighting purposes in its fire-fighting exercise areas. The best known compound, PFOS, was phased out in 2001. As more evidence has come to light over the years indicating chemicals and is largely due to more challenging weather conthat many of the PFAS compounds are toxic and persistent (i.e. ditions. Aircraft de-icing chemicals are particularly used when they do not degrade), Avinor has switched to using fluorine-free precipitation occurs during the winter, in order to prevent the fire-fighting foam. However, many years of using fire-fighting foam formation of ice on aircraft. In 2016, there were instances of containing fluorine have resulted in ground pollution in many of exceeding the maximum permitted usage of de-icing liquid at ten of Avinor’s fire-fighting exercise areas. These pollutants are still conAvinor’s airports. tributing to the run-off of PFAS to the surrounding environment. In addition, during the 2015-2016 winter season, two breaches Avinor monitors PFAS pollutants at its airports on an ongoing basis, of the discharge permit in the watercourses around Oslo Airport and sampling for PFAS analysis forms part of many of the annual were demonstrated, while in 2016, there were a total of two minor environmental monitoring programmes. breaches of the discharge permit for groundwater. These breaches are being followed up and have led to Avinor developing practical Following extensive water, soil and biota sampling, as well as solutions, not just to reduce chemical usage, but also to promote risk assessments linked to PFOS, reports from 18 airports were completed in 2016. Action plans have also been drawn up for PFOS-polluted ground at Harstad/Narvik Airport and Kristiansand NUMBER OF AIRPORTS WITH OPERATIONAL BREACH OF Airport, following the issuing of orders by the Norwegian CONDITIONS FOR AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAY DE-ICING Environment Agency. An action plan for the fire-fighting exercise areas adjacent to Svalbard Airport is under preparation after the Number of airports Governor of Svalbard issued Avinor, Longyearbyen Community 12 Council and Store Norske Spitsbergen Kullkompani with a joint 10 order to draw up an action plan for PFAS pollutants. 8 At Oslo Airport, the treating of PFOS contaminated ground and 6 spill water by the fire team has achieved good results. During 4 the year, soil has been cleaned at many locations to remove large 2 quantities of PFOS. The initiative is being closely monitored in order to document the effect. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Avinor is in close discussions with the Norwegian Environment De-icing aircraft De-icing runway Agency concerning these cases and has adopted a cost-benefit perspective in connection with evaluations of possible measures. 40 AVINOR AS AIRCRAFT AND HELICOPTER NOISE exposure depends on the aircraft type, traffic volume, runway use, route choice, and how the traffic is distributed throughout the Avinor’s environmental objectives for noise for the period day. Apart from noise mappings, Avinor's most important tools are 2016-2020: The number of residents exposed to outdoor traffic management and adjustment of approach and departure noise levels from aircraft and helicopters exceeding Lden procedures. 60 dB and Lnight 55 dB, shall not increase during the period. In May 2016, revised noise regulations issued by the Civil Aviation About two per cent of the Norwegian population live in a location Authority took effect for Oslo Airport. Among other things, these where average outdoor aircraft noise exceeds Lden 50 dBA . This new regulations regulate runway use and the areas which can mainly includes people who are exposed to noise from fighter be overflown in the vicinity of the airport. The regulations allow aircraft, as well as people who live in exposed areas near the largest for permanent use of curved approaches, where the routes run civil airports in Norway and airports with considerable offshore between densely populated areas. Furthermore, the regulations helicopter traffic. The number of people exposed to aircraft noise indicate an adjusted departure corridor for departures from the has remained relatively stable since 1999, in spite of a significant airport’s northeastern corner. Compliance with the new departure increase in traffic. This is because newer aircraft engines produce corridors exceeds 95 per cent. This adjustment will make it possible less noise. to maintain the departure capacity at the airport, whilst preventing aircraft from flying over the most densely populated areas. Aircraft and helicopter noise is one of Avinor’s most important environmental focus areas due to the importance for the airports’ local The introduction of the Sikorsky S92 helicopter for offshore transcommunities. Avinor will work actively to limit noise levels from port has resulted in a significant increase in aircraft noise at certain civil aircraft and helicopter traffic for residents in areas close to the airports. More recent aircraft noise surveys show that helicopter airports. Regular noise surveys will be carried out at all airports and traffic contributes somewhat toward increasing the scope of the red the flight paths used at the major airports will be monitored. aircraft noise zone, in which the construction of schools, day-care centres, housing and holiday cottages is generally prohibited. The Airport noise maps, which describe a noise picture with long-term helicopter traffic is of particular significance for the scope of the predictability, are the most important tools for preventing increased yellow aircraft noise zone in which construction is permitted, aircraft noise exposure in residential areas. The municipalities are but only if measures are implemented to reduce noise. In 2012, obliged to use these maps in their area planning. Aircraft noise Avinor took the initiative to establish a national helicopter noise 7) Lden = an A-weighted equivalent noise level for day-evening-night with a 5 dB/10 dB supplement for evening-night. The Lden level is calculated as the average noise load over the course of one year. Lnight = an A-weighted equivalent level for an 8-hour night period from 23:00 to 07:00 hours. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 41 committee consisting of representatives from Avinor, oil companies which resulted in a reduction of at least 10 per cent, but ultimately and helicopter operators, as well as administrative management identified potential reductions of no less than 29 per cent. The in affected municipalities. The committee coordinates initiatives measures concerned covered everything from better heat recycling which aim to reduce noise levels. in ventilation systems, the replacement of lighting systems with LED lighting, optimised control of the baggage handling system, At Bergen and Stavanger airports, where a system was established and better control of snow-melting systems (ground heating). in 2014 for registering radar data from air traffic, work has been ongoing in 2015 to establish approach and departure procedures At the remaining airports, a number of minor energy-economising to reduce the number of people exposed to noise from offshore initiatives were performed during 2016, including switching to LED helicopter traffic. Preliminary adjustments, based on the route regislighting, upgrading of heating and ventilation systems and a greater tration system, have been well received by the airports’ neighbours. degree of demand-based control. The work to introduce energy management and energy monitoring systems has been continued, and a total of 20 airports are now covered by the system. By the ENERGY end of 2017, all of Avinor’s airports will have introduced energy management and energy monitoring systems. Work is also under Avinor’s environmental strategy for the period 2016-2020: way to identify good solutions to eliminate the consumption of Introduce energy management and energy monitoring fossil energy sources for heating buildings. within the organisation, reduce purchased electricity, implement energy-economising initiatives, reduce the overall At Svalbard Airport, a solar power system was installed in 2016. consumption of energy and phase out fossil energy sources. There are plans to expand the facility in 2017, as the power output of the system was greater than expected due to reflection. The energy which supplies Avinor’s building portfolio and infraStavanger Airport also began a pilot project involving the use of structure is primarily derived from purchased electricity. Some solar panels in collaboration with Lyse energi in the summer of airports are connected to a district heating network. In addition, 2016. One of the aims of this project is to prepare the airport for some airports use inhouse-generated energy from seawater heat an expansion of the charging capacity for electric cars and buses. exchangers, geothermal heat and solar energy. The energy is In addition, solar-powered charging of electric lawnmowers is also primarily used for heating, cooling, lighting, runway systems and planned. other technical equipment. No specific target for reducing energy consumption has been set WASTE in the environmental strategy, but it is stated that purchased electricity must be reduced and that overall energy consumption must Airport operations generate waste from public areas, including be minimised. Avinor’s overall energy consumption rose from 2015 security checks, cafés and restaurants, shops and waiting areas, but to 2016. Some of this increase is due to an increase in construction waste is also generated from aircraft cleaning, workshops, garages, activity and a rise in the number of square metres of building space. offices and, not least, construction projects. Avinor is working systematically on waste separation and hazardous waste manageImplementing energy-related measures without knowing where the ment. Avinor delivered a total of 9 745 tonnes of waste in 2016. Oslo savings can be made is difficult. It is therefore important to reguAirport, excluding external stakeholders at the airport, delivered 64 larly conduct energy surveys of buildings and installations in order per cent of this, a total of 6 272 tonnes. The source separation rate to identify appropriate measures. Enova has a support scheme was 48 per cent. For Oslo Airport, the source separation rate was where the amount of NOK 1 is paid per square metre of building 52 per cent. A total of 295 tonnes of hazardous waste was delivered which is mapped for energy measures. In 2016, Oslo Airport took in 2016. Of this, Oslo Airport delivered 213 tonnes. From 2016, the advantage of this scheme and surveyed the entire terminal building waste figures have been adjusted in accordance with the definition (140 400 sq. m.). The aim of the project was to identify measures in NS9431 Klassifikasjon av avfall (Waste classification). For 2016, AVINOR’S ENERGY CONSUMPTION ACCORDING TO SOURCE TOTAL AMOUNT OF WASTE Energy consumption, GWh Tonnes 275 15 000 250 12 000 9 000 225 6 000 200 3 000 175 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 8) Electric District heating Oil heating Back-up power Oslo Airport Avinor 8) Waste data from 2016 is not directly comparable with earlier years, as the scope is different. OSL only includes numbers from OSL, not from other companies operating at LH. 42 AVINOR AS prioritised areas: water and soil, climate and noise. In order to SEPARATION RATE, WASTE succeed, it is vital that environmental considerations are integrated Per cent into everyday operations, in connection with the procurement of 70 products and services, and in the planning and delivery of projects. Procurement is one of the key instruments for realising the strategy. 60 Avinor has the opportunity to point suppliers from multiple sectors 50 in a more environmentally-friendly direction, and environmental requirements in procurement are an important part of Avinor's 40 environmental policy. Standardised requirements for environmental management systems are integrated into the templates which are 30 used in connection with all procurement within the group where 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 relevant. Environmental considerations are also accorded emphasis Total Oslo Airport Avinor in the award criteria for procurements considered important for the external environment. Avinor has centralised the procurement function with the aim of the figures for Oslo Airport only include Avinor Oslo Airport and strengthening it professionally, and establishing clear interfaces exclude other stakeholders at the airport. The figures are therefore with respect to other disciplines, including the environment. not directly comparable with previous years. In the future, Avinor The environmental department works closely with the central will aim to maintain the current waste separation level, while at the procurement departments by providing assistance in connection same time reducing the total waste volume. Avinor will continue to with specific procurements, as well as general advice concerning work with professional partners to ensure safe and optimal waste environmental considerations in connection with procurement. management. This entails the provision of assistance to develop Avinor’s project management system is intended to safeguard the local waste management plans, suitable for the airports’ needs and natural environment during construction and engineering projects. the recipients’ facilities, as well as the safe and appropriate handling As regards the implementation of major building and construction of hazardous waste. projects, Avinor will prepare an environmental follow-up plan which will safeguard considerations for the external environment during the planning and construction phases, and guarantee that BIODIVERSITY environmental considerations are taken into account in the choice of solutions. Many of Avinor’s airports are situated in or close to areas that have a high natural biodiversity. These include protected areas, rare habitat types, threatened species, salmon rivers and salmon AIR QUALITY fjords. Avinor aims to have a good overview of natural assets on its properties and in areas that could be affected by airport operations. Air quality in and around the airport area is affected by local and During the period 2008-2013, Avinor conducted biodiversity surveys regional emissions, as well as by weather conditions and the local at all its airports. A report from these surveys has been prepared terrain. Emissions from airport operations have the greatest impact for each airport, with descriptions and management advice. The on ambient air quality locally at the airport, with aircraft and reports are available to the public on Avinor’s website. The results vehicles being the largest contributors. Outside the airport area, in the reports are followed up and used for operations and projects. emissions from road traffic have the greatest impact. The results are also used for environmental risk assessments, environmental monitoring programmes and in the planning of In 2001, NILU (Norwegian Institute for Air Research) conducted development and construction activities, among other things. a large scale mapping of the local air quality as requested by Oslo Airport. Calculations were made and measurements were taken In 2016, many of the reports on biodiversity at the airports were at different locations around the airport. NILU’s report concluded updated, and processes and procedures were developed within that the air quality at and around the airport is considerably better the management system in order to safeguard the environment than in urban areas. In 2015, it was decided that this report should in connection with operations. A particular focus was placed on be updated and the results are now ready. The report considers four implementing requirements to prevent and limit the spreading of separate points: mapping of the air quality around Oslo Airport, non-indigenous, harmful species with a high ecological risk. odor problems that sometimes arise, whether or not discolouration of houses around Oslo Airport is a result of aircraft emissions and whether or not the surface tension of nearby ponds is reduced due ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND PROCUREMENT to aircraft emissions. The report shows that the concentration of nitrous oxides is far below the dangerous threshold and there is no Avinor spends considerable sums of money on products and reason to suspect that it leads to health concerns. Even though the services. In 2016, Avinor’s procurements amounted to a total of smell of jet fuel is present, the concentrations of this is so small that NOK 8 719 million, of which 4 539 million related to investments it is of no actual health concern. Furthermore, there is no indication primarily for major construction projects such as terminal expanthat discolouration of homes around Oslo Airport is a result of sions and runway extensions, while NOK 4 181 million was spent aircraft emissions. The research was conducted at Avinor’s busiest on purchases for the group’s operations. Avinor has an ambitious airport. There are no indications that there should be significantly environmental strategy with group-wide targets within certain different results at any other airports run by Avinor. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 43 ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION Environmental requirements, expectations and targets will be met through good environmental management. Around half of the airports have now implemented new environmental management and the remaining airports will complete this process during 2017. Avinor has decided to certify its environmental management and operational environmental work in accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Certification audits were carried out on the first group of airports at the end of 2016, and the phasing-in of further airports for inclusion under the joint certificate is expected in 2017 and 2018. Oslo Airport has been certified since 2014. Avinor is a controlling member of a recycling scheme for packaging through Grønt Punkt Norge. We require our Norwegian suppliers to be a member of a packaging recycling scheme. 44 AVINOR AS Key figures for climate and environment 2012-2016 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Avinor controls tonnes CO2 eqv. 17 500 18 406 20 728 21 397 20 992 Avinor controls/passenger g CO2 eqv./passenger 344 368 414 443 453 ENERGY 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Electric power GWh 234 231 223 220 216 District heating GWh 22 12 15 26 27 Oil heating GWh 2.8 2.8 1.7 2.0 3.3 Back-up power GWh 0.9 1.7 2.3 1.5 1.8 Total GWh 260 248 242 250 248 VEHICLES – FUEL AND OTHER SOURCES OF ENERGY 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Diesel litres 2 464 308 2 669 237 2 625 548 2 796 158 2 773 281 Petrol litres 60 805 65 619 76 255 80 404 86 672 Biodiesel litres 81 767 9 280 Electric car km 138 765 85 134 Hydrogen car km 43 666 16 773 WASTE 2016 1) 2015 2014 2013 2012 Sorted waste tonnes 4 687 7 999 8 407 7 246 7 370 Mixed waste tonnes 5 058 5 793 6 087 5 466 5 560 Total amount of waste tonnes 9 745 13 792 14 494 12 712 12 930 Waste separation rate % 48 59 58 57 57 Hazardous waste tonnes 285 385 515 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 45 FIRE AND ACCIDENT CHEMICALS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Jet fuel A1/Paraffin litres 68 470 72 225 72 965 85 788 100 952 Diesel/Petrol litres 767 3 333 5 656 4 597 2 478 Propane kg 2 028 3 837 2 662 2 850 3 324 AFFF litres 23 886 27 356 20 785 27 668 36 209 Drill foam litres 1 762 1 610 360 Extinguishing powder kg 19 973 23 719 17 247 20 825 19 274 Technical spirits litres 1 545 1 156 721 1 426 869 Kindling kg 6 744 5 397 2 427 1 728 1 272 DE-ICING CHEMICALS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 De-icing of aircraft 100 % glycol litres 2 747 997 2 412 346 2 287 775 2 120 801 2 353 921 De-icing of runways Formate (liquid) 2) litres 3 541 433 3 552 317 2 591 111 2 946 325 2 470 872 Formate (solid) 2) kg 465 030 443 850 210 275 229 203 264 303 Environmental impact as COD 3) tonnes O2 567 343 563 887 385 208 435 739 382 003 NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT INCIDENTS (LH) WITH BREACHES OF CONDITIONS FOR DE-ICING OF AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAYS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 De-icing of aircraft 4) number 10 5) 3 4 9 8 De-icing of runways 4) number 1 1 1 1 0 Some of the key figures from earlier years may have been corrected due to quality checks of recorded data, as well as due to adjusment of annual emission factor. 1) Waste data from 2016 is not directly comparable with earlier years, as the scope is different. OSL only includes numbers from OSL, not from other companies operating at LH. 2) Given as amount of product, not concentrate. 3) COD = Chemical oxygen demand. This is the amount of oxygen required to break down the chemical substance used. 4) At OSL the breach is due to either aircraft or runway de-icing (recipient based permit). 5) One airport has been given a permit with increased limits, two airports have applied for increased limits and two airports have applications currently being processed. 46 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer Avinor’s vision is to create valuable relationships. This is reflected in a value platform that sets clear requirements for employee conduct in the workplace and when dealing with customers, business associates and others who are affected by our operations. The 2016 employee survey showed that seven out of ten employees employees during the reorganisation period as much as possible, are highly or very highly committed to their job: trade union representatives and safety delegates underwent training in reorganisation processes and communication. Avinor ·· Avinor offers a good working environment has fulfilled its need to downsize through voluntary agreements ·· Job satisfaction is high and natural wastage without any compulsory redundancies. ·· Four out of five people consider Avinor to be an attractive workplace COLLABORATION REORGANISATION Avinor employs a high number of trade union members, and the collective agreement coverage is 100 per cent for the group's comIn 2016, Avinor carried out a reorganisation process as a result panies, with each having its own collective agreement. Trade union of the group's modernisation programme. Many employees were representatives are therefore important partners in the effort to affected by the reorganisation and downsizing within their own realise the group’s objectives. In 2016, Avinor enjoyed close and conpart of the organisation. It was very important for Avinor to carry structive cooperation with trade union representatives, as regards out the reorganisation in a professional and ordered manner. Trade both ongoing cases and more comprehensive change processes. The union representatives and safety delegates were important partners group nevertheless aims to further develop the collaborative model in the implementation of the change process. In order to safeguard between trade union representatives and management in order to COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 47 secure good working conditions, stable operations and cost-effecto increase the number of apprenticeships and traineeships, and tiveness throughout the group. intends to increase the total number of places available in 2017 to 33. Specific resources have been allocated to boost the work Avinor’s employees hold four out of ten seats on Avinor’s Board. relating to the apprenticeship scheme. Representatives are also elected by and from among the employees, to the Board of Avinor Flysikring AS. INCLUSION AND GENDER EQUALITY CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT AND LEAN Emphasis is placed on ensuring that employees have equal opportunities in the group, irrespective of gender, age, functional ability, ethnicity Oslo Airport has worked systematically on LEAN for over two years or cultural background. Avinor conducts systematised performance with extremely good results. Elements from LEAN have also been used reviews to ensure a neutral salary and career development. Employee at other Avinor airports as part of the improvement work. Avinor now surveys confirm that employees believe they have equal opportunities, wishes to coordinate the initiatives on a group-wide basis. Continuous irrespective of gender. Commitment to the group is strong. improvement is a strategic initiative area for Avinor, with the aim of creating a common improvement culture across the group. In Avinor is a male-dominated company which strives to achieve connection with this, Avinor will formulate a specific framework, a a more equal gender balance. In 2016, the group carried out a business system, for use throughout the entire organisation. Elements reorganisation and downsizing process, and, in practice, there was from LEAN will be included in this framework. a freeze on new recruitment. The group has thus had less opportunity than normal to create a more equal gender balance through recruitment of new employees. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Women accounted for 22.1 per cent of permanent employees. The Employees with the right skills are essential for Avinor to succeed. number of women in management positions corresponds with the As part of the group's modernisation programme, an extensive percentage of women in the company, with 17.9 in the entire group, survey of skills in certain parts of the organisation was carried out 25 per cent in the group’s management and 50 per cent in the board. in 2016. Work has begun on strategic skills management, and will be continued in 2017. At the same time, work is ongoing to certify Over-representation of men in many occupational groups within Avinor’s airports in accordance with environmental standards and Avinor is a challenge. The potential for increasing the percentage of new regulatory requirements. A particular focus will be placed on women will vary according to the different professions. The target operative units and the group’s safety management. is 25 per cent women by the end of 2020. With the current turnover, this means that 39 per cent of all vacant positions must be filled Good leadership is fundamental for Avinor’s operations and by women in the next five year period. An increased percentage of employee conditions. The group has a holistic approach to managewomen is therefore a key performance indicator (KPI) for all profit ment development. The programme, Avinors lederplattform, forms centres. Avinor’s recruitment policy includes concrete guidelines for the basis for good leadership within Avinor. A total of 450 managers, ensuring objective assessment of qualifications in job interviews. key personnel, safety delegates and trade union representatives Avinor’s career development programme, which is starting up in 2017, completed the programme during the period 2013-2016. This work will focus on opportunities for women and women in management. is being strengthened and supplemented through the development A systematic and continuous approach to management development of effective teams of leaders. Training is also provided concerning will also contribute to women choosing this as a career path. practical, operational leadership as and when necessary. The focus on projects as a working form is supported by Avinor’s BREACHES OF WORKING HOURS PROVISIONS project school. The project school makes it possible for employees to acquire formal supplementary training in project management It is important to Avinor to ensure full compliance with the and methodology. working hours provisions stipulated in the Norwegian Working Environment Act. The group continuously follows up how working In recent years, the group has established firm ties with academia, hours are spent. Training of managers and shift organisers has been and is involved in several ongoing research collaborations. Avinor conducted in vulnerable units. also contributes expertise to several universities and university colleges in Norway through guest lectures. In addition, Avinor This trend has stagnated after many years of a decline in the numconducts workshops with students where we work together to solve ber of breaches of working hours provisions. The total reduction for specific challenges in Avinor’s project portfolio. Avinor has a special the group from 2015 to 2016 was 1 per cent. This will be afforded summer internship programme, and facilitates work on bachelor's more attention in 2017, with the aim of bringing about a further or master’s theses in cooperation with the group. reduction. New targets have been set for 2017, and the focus on continuous monitoring will be increased. Avinor created 16 new apprenticeship places in 2016 (Oslo Airport, Stavanger, Trondheim, Bergen and Kristiansand), in addition to The use of overtime within the group overall fell by 0.4 per cent the five that were created during the previous year. The group aims during 2016. 48 AVINOR AS HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE) and many have more. Working environment committees have been established at central level, divisional level and locally. The Avinor attaches great importance to ensuring that its strategic committees are composed of safety delegates and representatives of and overarching plans for health, safety and the environment the employees and management. The occupational health service, comply with laws and regulations and that they are adhered to the chemicals committee and the Tripartite Committee for the and followed up throughout the group. HSE is a management Prevention of Alcohol and Drug Problems in the Workplace (AKAN) responsibility and must be integrated into the working day for the also form part of Avinor’s safety service. whole line. The group’s action plans are founded on the regulations relating to systematic health, environmental and safety activities Systematic work to reduce absence due to illness in enterprises, the Working Environment Act with associated HSE Avinor’s work on absence due to illness is systematic and particuregulations, as well as the group’s strategic plan, comprising, e.g.: larly aimed at employees who work shifts, in operative positions with physical and health requirements. Avinor has participated ·· HSE risk profile and health-promoting work in a multi-year research project (FARVE) on the effect of various ·· Systematic HSE work measures. This work has led to a sharp decrease in the number of ·· The injury picture cases of unlawful sick leave and is being continued in the form of initiatives aimed at preventing ill health. As the principal undertaking, the Avinor group is responsible for coordinating the HSE work with all parties who are tenants or Each of the 42 regional airports has appointed an employee as health who are contracted to perform work on behalf of the group. Avinor motivator, responsible for disseminating knowledge and promoting is also a construction client in a number of contexts. This entails exercise and a healthy lifestyle. To motivate all employees into taking ensuring due consideration for health, safety and the working part in physical activity, Avinor has also entered into a partnership environment at construction sites. with Norges Bedriftsidrettsforbund Aktiv Bedrift. Avinor works systematically to prevent the harmful effects of substance abuse, through It is important for the group to raise the organisation’s awareness of internal regulations, skills development and raising awareness. the importance of reporting undesirable incidents as well as injuEmployees who want to change their alcohol consumption habits ries. This means undesirable incidents relating to passengers, other can also get help via Balance. Balance is an online health-promoting players as well as the group’s own employees. As an infrastructure programme that can assess a person's alcohol habits, and then follow owner, it is essential that Avinor is aware of such incidents so that up for up to one year for those who want to make a positive change. we can implement mitigating measures. The group aims for an absence due to illness rate of 4.5 per cent, or In 2016, there were 20 injuries among the Avinor group’s own lower. In 2016, absence due to illness was 4.7 per cent. employees that resulted in absence. Avinor AS recorded 19 injuries and Avinor Flysikring AS 1 injury. The group’s LTI rate (number of injuries resulting in absence per million hours worked) for 2016 was KEY FIGURES REGARDING AVINOR EMPLOYEES 4.0, compared with 3.3 in 2015. The target is 3 or less. The increase in the LTI rate can largely be explained as the result of a com2016 2015 2014 prehensive quality assurance process concerning the data in the No. of permanent employees as of 31 Dec. 3 074 3 157 3 214 non-conformity system. This provides a better basis for implementing preventive measures which have the desired effect. Temporary full-time equivalents 9) 200 153 155 Average age of permanent employees 46.0 44.4 45.4 Since project start-up, the LTI rate for the T2 project at Oslo Airport Total turnover 10) 4.9% 2.2% 2.8% has been 2.8. For T3 at Bergen Airport, the rate is 3.75. Close moniPercentage of women 11) 22.1% 24.1% 23.6% toring, an ongoing focus on HSE and the systematic performance of safe job analyses are described as the reasons behind the relatively Percentage of women in management 17.9% 21.5% 21.4% low LTI rate in the expansion projects. Percentage women, group management 25.0% 18.0% 17.0% Percentage women, group Board 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% In 2016, the Avinor group began work to monitor injuries to employees and other stakeholders and passengers. In 2016, a total Absence due to illness 4.7% 4.6% 4.5% of 135 injuries were reported amongst these groups, most involving LTI rate 12) 4.0 3.3 4.2 fall injuries amongst passengers. Avinor, an attractive company (scale 1-5) 4.0 4.1 4.1 Experience from 2016 indicates that preventive HSE work has been successful, and this is highlighted within the group. In 2016, an AGE BOARD OF GROUP PERMANENT improved overview of injury categories and causes was established. DISTRIBUTION DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES TURNOVER This provides a better basis for reporting, analysis, the transfer of <30 0.0% 0.0% 5.5% 0.0% experience, and generally better learning loops. 30-50 20.0% 25.0% 51.3% 4.4% The safety delegate service 50< 80.0% 75.0% 43.2% 6.2% Avinor is split into safety areas, with one responsible safety delegate per area. All airports have at least one safety delegate 9) Including air traffic control trainees 10) Including all reasons for the termination of employment except for severance agreements 11) Percentage of women, permanent and temporary employees 12) Number of occupational accidents resulting in absence per 1,000,000 hours worked COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 49 50 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure responsible business conduct Avinor works systematically to prevent all forms of corruption, discrimination, environmental crime and harassment. The group has established a code of conduct which binds management, employees, suppliers and business partners. ACTIVE USE OF CODE OF CONDUCT MEASURES AGAINST ANTI-COMPETITIVE CONDUCT The group's Board has established a code of conduct which applies Avinor is covered by the regulations regarding public procurement. to the Board and all employees. All employees must have completed Group-wide guidelines have been established which supplement a course on Avinor's code of conduct, which prohibits corruption, the regulations to ensure competition in connection with the bribes and anti-competitive behaviour in violation of competition establishment of individual contracts. rules, among other things. In 2016, we developed further ethical dilemmas and rolled out a new e-learning course which focuses on corruption, environmental crime and sexual harassment. The FOLLOW-UP OF SUPPLIERS course is mandatory for all employees and contractors. In 2015, terms and conditions were introduced which will ensure that Avinor’s suppliers have a code of conduct and are committed ZERO TOLERANCE TOWARDS CORRUPTION to fulfilling their corporate social responsibilities. The requirements collectively stipulate Avinor’s principles as regards human rights, Avinor has a policy of zero tolerance towards corruption. An labour standards, HSE, the environment and prohibited business anti-corruption programme has been developed with a focus on practices. These requirements are aimed at suppliers, and a list preventive and controlling activities. Initiatives are established is maintained of all the group's suppliers that have signed an based on a risk assessment of the area concerned. Control agreement concerning prudent business conduct. The provisions documents have been developed linked to the work, and there is an of the agreement provide an opportunity to audit the supplier. Any ongoing focus on the further development of the anti-corruption material breach of an agreement on prudent business conduct entiprogramme. Avinor is a member of Transparency International tles Avinor to terminate all applicable agreements with the supplier, Norway. As a member, Avinor contributes to the joint effort to if censurable matters are not addressed in a satisfactory manner. promote transparency, integrity and responsibility within society The main supplier undertakes to ensure that the agreement and in order to prevent corruption and misconduct, both nationally associated principles are reflected in their agreements with any and internationally. Moreover, we have undertaken to practise subcontractors. zero tolerance as regards all forms of corruption within Avinor and to establish appropriate measures to combat corruption. Avinor Requirements towards new suppliers interprets zero tolerance as indicating that we will do what can Suppliers wishing to take part in competitive tendering processes reasonably be expected of our organisation to prevent corruption. for contracts with Avinor must undertake to follow our principles If we identify instances of corruption within our organisation, we concerning responsible supplier conduct. For example, we require will implement measures to follow up the matter appropriately. international human rights to be respected and our suppliers not to be involved in any breaches of such rights. Suppliers must also ensure that their employees’ salaries satisfy applicable requirements IMPARTIALITY concerning minimum salaries, that working hours comply with applicable national law, that employees are able to take sufficient Members of the group Board and management submit annual rest and that employment agreements are established in writing in self-declarations on related parties, with information about any a language that the employee understands. transactions between these parties. An external auditor conducts annual surveys of formal relations between Avinor's group Follow-up of existing suppliers management, the Board and suppliers. Any relationships will be Avinor’s agreement concerning responsible supplier conduct gives documented and reviewed with the person in question. The latter us the right to audit a contractual party's follow-up and compliance analysis generally confirms information that emerges through with all aspects of the contract. the self-declarations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 51 RESPONSIBLE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA Avinor has implemented a number of development projects in recent years. There have been a number of incidents relating to price fixing Avinor has appointed a data protection official whose responsiand corruption in the Norwegian building and construction sector. bilities include assisting people registered with the company (e.g. Avinor’s risk exposure for corruption and irregularities has consein customer registers) and the company’s own employees with quently increased as a result of these investment programmes. Avinor issues relating to Avinor’s treatment of personal data. The data is represented throughout Norway and has a wide control range. protection official shall also identify violations of the Personal This also contributes to a higher risk of corruption and irregularities. Data Act and report them to management, and act as a contact for Various control and preventive measures have been established, enquiries from the Norwegian Data Protection Authority. Avinor which together will reduce the group's risk of contributing to and has established a personal data protection policy and prepared a being exposed to corruption and irregularities. privacy statement. Avinor also provides information about the use of cookies on our website. We have entered into data processing Whistleblowing agreements with subcontractors who process personal data on our Avinor has established a committee to process reports of questionabehalf. Avinor has not received any complaints regarding how it ble matters in all parts of the organisation. Cases involving failures in protects against breaches of customers’ privacy. safety routines, bullying and harassment, inappropriate procedures and working conditions in breach of the Working Environment Act, as well as corruption and other financial misconduct can be reported. WHISTLEBLOWING AND OTHER MEASURES TO ENSURE Whistleblowers can choose to remain anonymous. This committee COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION AND GUIDELINES has established procedures to ensure the proper processing of reports. The committee has also prepared procedures and technical Compliance function solutions which allow external stakeholders to report questionable Avinor’s compliance function is responsible for follow-up to ensure matters at Avinor. Processing of these reports shall follow the same that the group complies with external and internal regulations procedure as for reports from group employees. Avinor holds a linked to corruption, irregularities and the code of conduct. In licence from the Norwegian Data Protection Authority for processing addition, the function must define Avinor's responsibilities to prepersonal information disclosed through the whistleblowing process. vent labour market crime, impose requirements, propose relevant The committee received 113 enquiries in 2016. All enquiries have been measures, assess how Avinor follows up its responsibilities and concluded. No evidence has been found to indicate that there were establish adequate sanctions in the event of non-compliance. reprehensible circumstances in any of the cases concerned. 52 AVINOR AS Overview of indicators This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) reporting standard G4/ Core. Avinor’s annual accounts (company accounts and consolidated financial statements) for 2016 have been audited by Ernst & Young AS. The auditor’s report is available on pages 120-123. A detailed description of the different indicators is available on GRI’s website. Standard report STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-1 Introduction p. 8 THE ORGANISATION STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-3 Name Avinor as G4-4 Product p. 6-7 G4-5 Head office Oslo G4-6 Presence Avinor only has operations in Norway G4-7 Ownership p. 7 G4-8 Markets p. 7 G4-9 Size p. 4, 12 G4-10 Employees p. 48 G4-11 Collective agreements p. 46 G4-12 Supplier chain p. 42 G4-13 Changes No significant changes G4-14 Precautionary p. 34 G4-15 Support for CSR initiatives p. 21, 50 G4-16 Special int. org. Range: Sector council transport and communications National programme for supplier development: Partner COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 53 PRIORITISATION STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-17 Overview, company p. 12 This report relates to activities managed by the group in connection with airport operations and aviation safety, but not activities in other subsidiaries. G4-18 Define report content p. 20-21 G4-19 Prioritisation p. 20-21 G4-20 Scope internal All topics considered material are relevant for all of Avinor’s operations. G4-21 Scope external Avinor is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aviation in cooperation with the airlines and the Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries. Avinor also helps facilitate an increase in the number of passengers who use public transport to travel to and from the airport. G4-22 Amended reporting G4-23 Changed measuring methods STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-24 List of stakeholders p. 21 G4-25 Selection basis p. 21 G4-26 Description of dialogue p. 21 G4-27 Topics p. 21 ABOUT THE REPORT STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-28 Applies to 2016 G4-29 Previous report 2015 G4-30 Interval Annual G4-31 Contact post@avinor.no G4-32 Type of GRI-report G4/Core p. 5 G4-33 Audit p. 120-123 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-34 Corporate p. 16-19 governance CODE OF CONDUCT STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-56 Code of conduct p. 50 https://avinor.no/konsern/om-oss/konsernet/visjon-og-verdier 54 AVINOR AS Results CATEGORY: FINANCE FINANCIAL RESULTS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 11-15 (Board report) p. 16-19 (Corporate governance) G4-EC1 Financial results p. 62-69 (Accounts) p. 70-116 (Notes to the acc.) INDIRECT FINANCIAL IMPACT ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 26-28 G4-EC7 Investments-infrastructure p. 26-28 G4-EC8 Indirect financial impact p. 26-28 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT ENERGY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34, 41 G4-EN3 Energy consumption p. 41, 44 G4-EN6 Energy saving measures p. 41 BIODIVERSITY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34, 42 G4-EN11 Property adjacent to areas p. 42 with high biodiversity value G4-EN12 Impact of biodiversity p. 38-39, 42 Detailed information on Avinor’s website G4-EN13 Improvement habitat p. 38-39, 42 Detailed information on Avinor’s website COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 55 EMISSIONS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ styringssystem p. 34-37 AO5 Air quality p. 43 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions p. 34-35, 44 G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions p.35-37, 44 G4-EN19 Reduction GHG emissions p.34 DISCHARGES AND WASTE ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34, 38-39 G4-EN23 Waste p. 34, 41-42, 44 G4-EN24 Accidental spills p. 38-39, 45 G4-AO6 De-icing fluid p. 38-39, 45 COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34 G4-EN29 Fines/sanctions No fines etc. NOISE ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 39-40 AO7 Noice p. 39-40 FOLLOW-UP OF SUPPLIERS/THE ENVIRONMENT ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 42 G4-EN32 Screening suppliers p. 42 56 AVINOR AS CATEGORY: FACTORS RELATING TO SOCIETY SUB-CATEGORY: WORKING CONDITIONS AND WORKING ENVIRONMENT HSE ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 46-48 G4-LA5 HSE organisation p. 48 G4-LA6 Absence due to illness/LTI p. 48 G4-LA7 Particularly exposed p. 48 employee groups EXPERTISE DEVELOPMENT ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 47 G4-LA9 Who is offered training? p. 47 Not reported on No available hourly level per information empl. category and gender DIVERSITY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 47 G4-LA12 Diversity, Board, p. 48 management, employees FOLLOW-UP OF SUPPLIERS/WORKING CONDITIONS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 50 G4-LA14 Suppliers screened p. 50 G4-LA15 Follow-up of existing p. 50 suppliers WHISTLEBLOWING CHANNELS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 51 G4-LA16 Complaints p. 51 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS NON-DISCRIMINATION ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 28, 33, 47 https://avinor.no/konsern/om-oss/ konsernet/visjon-og-verdier G4-HR3 Cases of discrimination None COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 57 FOLLOW-UP OF SUPPLIERS/HUMAN RIGHTS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 50 G4-HR10 Suppliers screened p. 50 G4-HR11 Follow-up of existing p. 50 suppliers SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY ANTI-CORRUPTION ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 50 G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training p. 50 G4-SO5 Cases of corruption None MEASURES AGAINST COMPETITION-INHIBITING CONDUCT ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 50 G4-SO7 Cases, regulatory violations None COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 50-51 G4-SO8 Fines, sanctions None SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SAFETY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 30-31 G4-PR1 Product safety mapping p. 30-31 G4-PR2 Regulatory violations p. 30-31 ETTERLEVELSE AV LOVGIVNING PRODUKTSIKKERHET ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 30-31 G4-PR9 Fines, sanctions None 58 AVINOR AS The Group Management DAG FALK-PETERSEN ANDERS KIRSEBOM ØYVIND HASAAS ASLAK SVERDRUP CEO Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Avinor Flysikring AS Oslo Airport Bergen Airport LEIF ANKER LORENTZEN LASSE BARDAL MARGRETHE PETTER JOHANNESSEN Managing Director Managing Director SNEKKERBAKKEN EVP Stavanger Airport Trondheim Airport EVP Economy, Finance and IT Regional airports division JON SJØLANDER EGIL THOMPSON MARI HERMANSEN STINE RAMSTAD WESTBY EVP EVP EVP EVP Strategy and Development Communications and Marketing HR, Legal and Business Support Operations and Infrastructure COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 59 The Board of Directors OLA MØRKVED RINNAN OLA HENRIK STRAND LINDA BERNANDER TONE MERETHE LINDBERG Chairman Vice Chairman SILSETH Board member CEO Eidsiva Energi AS Consultant Board member Consultant HERLOF NILSSEN ELI SKRØVSET PER ERIK NORDSVEEN BJØRN TORE MIKKELSEN Board member Board member Board member, employee rep. Board member, employee rep. Managing Director CFO, Eksportkreditt, Norge Airport officer, Team leader, Helse Vest RHF Tromsø Airport Kirkenes Airport HEIDI ANETTE SØRUM GRETE OVNERUD Board member, employee rep. Board member, employee rep. Traffic planner, main safety Air traffic controller, Norway delegate, Oslo Airport ATCC, Sector Group ACC West 60 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 61 Financial statements and notes 62 AVINOR AS INCOME STATEMENT All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2016 NOTE 2016 2015 Operating income 2 278.1 4 150.2 Traffic income 4, 5 5 143.0 5 248.0 1 997.9 5 257.4 Sales and rental income 4, 5 5 636.8 5 463.6 711.3 157.6 Other operating income 4, 5 8.2 11.5 0.0 0.0 Other income 4, 5 0.0 1 266.3 4 987.3 9 565.2 Total operating income 10 788.0 11 989.4 Operating expenses 187.7 350.3 Raw materials and conTotalables used 4 394.3 272.1 1 554.1 1 990.8 Employee benefits expense 4, 6, 9 3 326.1 3 466.6 2 611.2 4 082.4 Other operating expenses 4, 8, 9 3 565.8 3 516.0 16.2 -19.7 Other expenses 4, 10 -18.9 42.9 4 369.2 6 403.8 Total operating expenses 7 267.3 7 297.6 618.1 3 161.4 EBITDA 3 520.7 4 691.8 708.2 1 633.7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 9, 13 1 762.9 1 459.3 -90.1 1 527.7 Operating profit/(loss) 1 757.8 3 232.5 643.7 114.0 Finance income 11 36.2 39.8 421.8 425.3 Finance costs 11 419.8 368.4 221.9 -311.3 Net finance costs -383.6 -328.6 131.8 1 216.4 Profit before income tax 1 374.2 2 903.9 40.2 311.1 Income tax expense 12 345.6 454.9 91.6 905.3 Profit for the year 1 028.6 2 449.0 Attributable to: 91.6 905.3 Owners of the parent 1 028.6 2 449.0 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 63 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2016 NOTE 2016 2015 91.6 905.3 Profit for the year 1 028.6 2 449.0 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 489.0 -324.5 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations 16 -548.5 1 040.9 -132.0 81.1 Tax effect 12 137.1 -281.0 -5.3 -51.2 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -62.7 0.5 351.7 -294.6 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax -474.1 760.4 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss -2.4 38.3 Cash flow hedges 14 66.9 24.6 0.6 -9.6 Tax effect 12 -16.9 -6.6 -1.8 28.7 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax 50.0 18.0 349.9 -265.9 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -424.1 778.4 441.5 639.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 604.5 3 227.4 Attributable to: 441.5 639.4 Owners of the parent 604.5 3 227.4 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 64 AVINOR AS BALANCE SHEET All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 NOTE 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 ASSETS Non-current Assets Intangible assets 1 204.7 1 172.2 Deferred tax assets 12 1 358.7 1 508.9 41.7 39.9 Other intangible assets 13 108.8 117.2 0.0 0.0 Assets under construction, intangible 13 122.0 0.0 1 246.4 1 212.1 Total intangible assets 1 589.5 1 626.1 Property, plant and equipment 11 237.3 27 827.7 Property, plant and equipment 13 29 501.8 22 507.1 3 343.0 6 250.9 Assets under construction 13 6 595.1 10 615.2 14 580.3 34 078.6 Total property, plant and equipment 36 096.9 33 122.3 Financial assets 1 523.0 1 086.9 Investments in subsidiaries 19 0.0 0.0 7 571.3 140.0 Loans to group companies 23 0.0 0.0 635.0 504.0 Derivative financial instruments 14 504.0 636.2 124.2 390.6 Other financial assets 14 390.7 306.0 9 853.5 2 121.5 Total financial assets 894.7 942.2 25 680.2 37 412.2 Total non-current assets 38 581.1 35 690.6 Current Assets 24.4 12.6 Inventories 22.6 24.4 730.6 1 468.4 Trade and other receivables 14 1 483.4 1 378.4 4.5 1.0 Derivative financial instruments 14 1.0 24.9 1 630.3 938.1 Cash and cash equivalents 14 949.1 1 666.7 2 389.8 2 420.1 Total current assets 2 456.1 3 094.4 28 070.0 39 832.3 Total assets 41 037.2 38 785.0 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 65 BALANCE SHEET All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 NOTE 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Share capital 20 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 Total restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Retained earnings 3 171.7 7 717.7 Other equity 15 9 536.5 9 432.0 3 171.7 7 717.7 Total retained earnings 9 536.5 9 432.0 8 571.8 13 117.8 Total equity 14 936.6 14 832.1 Provisions and liabilities Provisions 1 085.3 1 651.7 Retirement benefit obligations 16 2 588.2 1 947.4 100.6 158.4 Other provisions 17 167.4 181.2 1 185.9 1 810.1 Total provisions 2 755.6 2 128.6 Non-current liabilities 0.0 2 527.3 State loan 14 2 527.3 2 971.7 7.4 14.7 Derivative financial instruments 14 50.7 88.2 13 095.6 14 413.8 Other non-current liabilities 14 15 009.5 14 123.8 13 103.0 16 955.8 Total non-current liabilities 17 587.5 17 183.7 Current liabilities 400.0 1 400.0 Commercial papers 14 1 400.0 400.0 230.1 620.5 Trade payables 685.4 441.1 1.0 65.5 Tax payable 12 136.6 335.9 86.2 102.4 Public duties payable 211.0 246.6 22.7 0.9 Derivative financial instruments 14 2.8 50.3 473.0 967.6 First annual instalment on long-term liabilities 14 1 019.8 994.2 3 996.3 4 791.7 Other current liabilities 17, 18 2 301.9 2 172.5 5 209.3 7 948.6 Total current liabilities 5 757.5 4 640.6 19 498.2 26 714.5 Total liabilities 26 100.6 23 952.9 28 070.0 39 832.3 Total equity and liabilities 41 037.2 38 785.0 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. Oslo, 29 March 2017 Board of Directors of Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Tone M. Lindberg Eli Skrøvset Chairman Vice-chairman Linda Bernander Silseth Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Per Erik Nordsveen Heidi Anette Sørum Grete Ovnerud Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 66 AVINOR AS STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS OTHER OTHER TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL RESERVES EQUITY EQITY Balance at 1 January 2015 5 400.1 -490.5 3 816.5 8 726.1 Profit for the year 91.6 91.6 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax 357.0 357.0 Cash flow hedge -1.8 -1.8 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -5.3 -5.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 349.9 91.6 441.5 Other Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -95.8 -95.8 Total others 0.0 0.0 -95.8 -95.8 Transactions with owners: Demerger -289.0 -2.3 -291.3 Non-cash share capital contribution 289.0 2.3 291.3 Dividends relating to 2014 -500.0 -500.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -500.0 -500.0 Balance at 1 January 2016 5 400.1 -140.6 3 312.3 8 571.8 Profit for the year 905.3 905.3 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax -243.4 -243.4 Cash flow hedge 28.7 28.7 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -1.7 -49.5 -51.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -216.4 855.8 639.4 Transactions with owners: Merger 25.2 4 381.4 4 406.6 Demerger -45.8 -58.5 -104.3 Non-cash share capital contribution 45.8 58.5 104.3 Dividends relating to 2015 -500.0 -500.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 25.2 3 881.4 3 906.6 Balance at 31 December 2016 5 400.1 -331.8 8 049.5 13 117.8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 67 STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR GROUP OTHER OTHER TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL RESERVES EQUITY EQITY Balance at 1 January 2015 5 400.1 -774.8 7 597.2 12 222.6 Profit for the year 2 449.0 2 449.0 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax 759.9 759.9 Cash flow hedge 18.0 18.0 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.5 0.5 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 778.4 2 449.0 3 227.4 Other Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -117.9 -117.9 Total others 0.0 0.0 -117.9 -117.9 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2014 -500.0 -500.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -500.0 -500.0 Balance at 1 January 2016 5 400.1 3.6 9 428.3 14 832.1 Profit for the year 1 028.6 1 028.6 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax -411.4 -411.4 Cash flow hedge 50.0 50.0 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -4.6 -58.1 -62.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -366.0 970.5 604.5 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2015 -500.0 -500.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -500.0 -500.0 Balance at 31 December 2016 5 400.1 -362.4 9 898.8 14 936.6 For specification of other reserves, see note 15. The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 68 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2016 NOTE 2016 2015 Cash flow from operating activities 1 732.8 3 012.7 Cash generated from operations 1) 3 401.4 3 495.9 14.4 35.9 Interest received 36.2 19.0 -0.7 -276.5 Income tax paid -337.2 -280.1 1 746.5 2 772.1 Net cash generated from operating activities 3 100.4 3 234.8 Cash flow from investing activities -2 114.4 -4 267.4 Investments in property, plant and equipment (PPE) 13 -4 497.3 -5 165.7 15.3 16.0 Proceeds from sale of PPE, including assets under construction 20.1 1 382.8 -1 600.0 0.0 Group loans 0.0 0.0 227.6 -37.3 Group interests 0.0 0.0 346.3 50.7 Net group contribution/dividend 0.0 1.7 -51.0 -57.0 Change in other investments -83.5 -47.9 -3 176.2 -4 295.0 Net cash used in investing activities -4 560.7 -3 829.1 Cash flow from financing activities 3 529.7 1 899.9 Proceeds from borrowings 14 1 899.9 3 609.7 -8.4 -943.3 Repayment of borrowings 14 -995.5 -749.0 Net proceeds/repayment of short term borrowings (commercial -400.0 1 000.0 papers) 14 1 000.0 -400.0 -449.0 -619.4 Interest paid -655.2 -618.8 -12.9 -6.5 Other borrowing charges -6.5 -12.9 -500.0 -500.0 Dividends paid to owner -500.0 -500.0 2 159.4 830.7 Net cash generated/used in financing activities 742.7 1 329.0 729.7 -692.2 Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts -717.6 734.7 900.6 1 630.3 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 14 1 666.7 932.0 1 630.3 938.1 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 949.1 1 666.7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 69 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS All amounts in MNOK 1) CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2016 2016 2015 131.8 1 216.4 Profit before income tax 1 374.2 2 903.9 708.2 1 633.7 Depreciation 1 762.9 1 459.3 -3.4 -12.7 (Profit)/loss on disposals of non-current assets -12.6 -1 270.0 10.0 -28.0 Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (unrealised) -34.9 17.8 -221.9 311.3 Net finance costs 383.6 328.6 -166.3 83.1 Change in inventories, trade receivables and trade payables 123.9 -186.2 50.5 -51.3 Difference between post employment benefit expense and amount paid/received 92.4 156.5 166.1 -259.0 Change in other working capital items -288.1 86.0 1 057.8 119.2 Change in group receivables and payables 0.0 0.0 1 732.8 3 012.7 Cash generated from operations 3 401.4 3 495.9 In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of PPE comprise: 11.9 3.3 Net book amount 7.5 112.8 3.4 12.7 Profit/(loss) on disposals of PPE 12.6 1 270.0 15.3 16.0 Proceeds from disposal of PPE 20.1 1 382.8 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 70 AVINOR AS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 General information 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 3 Financial risk factors 4 Segment information 5 Operating income and other income 6 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations 7 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees 8 Other operating expenses 9 Impact on earnings – Terminal 2 project 10 Other expenses 11 Finance income and costs 12 Income tax expense and deferred income tax 13 Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment 14 Financial assets and liabilities 15 Other reserves 16 Pension obligation 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 Other short-term liability 19 Subsidiaries 20 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results 21 Contingencies 22 Commitments 23 Related-party transactions 24 Events after the reporting period COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 71 NOTE 1 General information Avinor AS and its subsidiaries (together 'the group') own, manage group's main business,including commercial development. and develop aviation infrastructure and systems by facilitating safe and efficient aviation. The group also renders services within The Avinor group's headquarters are located in Oslo, Dronning the same areas together with other activities that add to the Eufemias gate 6. NOTE 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of The whole of Avinor group's operations are defined as two these consolidated financial statements are set out below and in cash-generating unit (CGU), one air navigation service unit and each note to the financial statement. These policies have been one airport operation unit including property development and consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise hotels. stated. For the airport operation unit, the group's economic model is The accounting policies set out below do also apply to the based on the assumption that there is full cross-subsidisation preparation of the financial statements of Avinor AS. between profitable and unprofitable airports as well as all areas of operations (overall system). The group has a distinct expressed objective to develop, within the overall system, commercial BASIS OF PREPERATION activities in order to provide capital for unprofitable activities (social considerations/responsibilities) and reduce the level of The consolidated financial statements of Avinor AS and Avinor traffic charges. Due to this the group assess that a solution where Group have been prepared in accordance with International the group's operations, exclusive of the Air Navigation Services, Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. are evaluated as a whole, presents a true and fair view of the operations. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets and The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) recognised requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also partly at fair value through profit or loss and partly (cash flow requires managment to exercise its judgement in the process of hedges) in other comprehensive income. applying the group's accounting policies. Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions The consolidated financial statements encompasses Avinor AS and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial and all entities over which Avinor AS has control. statements are disclosed in particular. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has The company's most significant accounting estimates and rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity judgements are related to the following items, specified further in and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over each individual note: the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsoli·· Deferred taxes dated from the date that control ceases. ·· Estimated impairment of property, plant and equipment ·· Depreciation of property, plant and equipment As at 31 December 2016 all subsidiaries are wholly owned. ·· Net pension obligation Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains/ Changes in accounting policy and disclosure losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where New and amended standards adopted by the group necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the There are no relevant amendments or new standards adopted by group. the group for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Shares in subsidiaries are recognised at cost at the acquisition date and are classified as a long-term investment. The shares New standards, amendments and interpretations are assessed whether there is any indication that their carrying not yet adopted amount exceeds the amount to be recovered through use or sale. A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2017, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statement. 72 AVINOR AS Avinor has chosen not to early implement any of these standards. Based on the group’s preliminary assessment the new standard will not have any major impact on the group's and the mother IFRS 9 'Financial instruments' replaces IAS 39 and addresses company’s operating income. the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities and introduces new rules for hedge The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after accounting. 1 January 2017. IFRS 9 require financial assets to be classified into three IFRS 16 'Leases' replaces IAS 17. measurement categories: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss. The IFRS 16 addresses the principles of recognition, measurement, determination is made at initial recognition.The classification presentation and disclosure of lease agreements for both parties depends on the entity's business model for managing its financial in the agreement, the customer (lessee) and the offerer (lessor). instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the The new standard demands that the lessee recognise assets instrument. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of and obligations for the majority of lease agreements, which is a the IAS 39 requirements. The main change is that, in cases where material change from todays rules. the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of fair value change due to an entity's own credit risk is recorded in The group’s preliminary assessment is that IFRS 16 will mainly other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, have an impact on the following lease agreements, which exists unless this creates an accounting mismatch. at year-end 2016: The new hedging rules align hedge accounting more closely with ·· Rental agreement HQ Oslo the group's risk management practice. Estimated impact 1 January 2019 on balance sheet 75 MNOK ·· Rental agreement Bodø airport As a general rule it will be easier to apply hedge accounting going A legal assessment will be carried out to determine the rent. forward as the standard introduces a more principles based The rent is therefore not known. approach. The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure ·· Lease agreement bussing Oslo airport. requirements and changes in presentation. The present contract expires in 2018. The group has assessed the new rules to have little effect on the The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after group’s own hedging arrangements. 1 January 2019. The standard is yet not approved by the EU. IFRS 9 will be effective from 1 January 2018. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretation that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' deals with group. revenue recognition and replaces all existing IFRS revenue requirements. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that revenue is recognised to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional services. currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction, except transactions from En Route income which The standard applies with a few exceptions to all revenue are translated using a fixed exchange rate. contracts with customers and provides a model for the recognition and measurement of sales of some non-financial assets (e.g., Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies disposals of property, plant and equipment). are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical The group’s income consists mainly of: cost denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. Non-monetary assets ·· Traffic income in the form of airportand air navigation and liabilities measured at fair value denominated in foreign charges. currencies are translated using the exchange rate at the balance ·· Rental income sheet date. In addition, there are to some extent, some volume of parking Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income and sales operations directly to the consumer. statement. The functional currency of the group companies is NOK. This includes air navigations services connected to airports not owned by the group (incl. the airports owned by the military). Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to receivables, liabilities, cash and cash equivalents are considered to be operDuring 2017 all types of income will be rewieved and assessed ational and have been classified as changes in value and other against the new standard. losses/(gains) net, presented within 'other expenses'. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 73 NOTE 3 Financial risk factors The group’s activities exposes it to a variety of financial risks: Avinor AS has as part of the hedging of larger aquisitions, entered Market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, into forward foreign exchange contracts in connection with cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity the development of the airpirt terminals. These are contracts in risk. The group’s overall rsik management programme seeks to EUR for the payment of luggage handling systems, navigation minimise the volatility of the group’s financial performance. The equipment, vehicles and others. group uses derivative financial instruments in addition to borrowings with fixed interest rates to hedge certain risk exposures. The group has issued bond loans denominated in EUR. The loans is hedged by a combined interest rate and forward foreign Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury exchange contract in which Avinor receives coupon payment and department under policies approved by the board of directors. principle amount in EUR and pay a predetermined amount in Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks NOKat the same point in time. in close co-operation with the group’s operating units. The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as As the foreign exchange risk in overall is assessed to be limited, well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign the group has not estimated any sensitivities. For the notional exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative principal amount of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts, financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. see note 14. For details about financial assets and liabilities including (ii) Interest rate risk hedging, see note 14. The group are exposed to interest rate risk through its financial activities (see note 14). Parts of the borrowings are issued at variable rates, which means that the group is influenced by the MARKET RISK changes in the interest rates. (i) Foreign exchange risk The objective of the group’s interest rate management is to keep The group and Avinor AS are exposed to foreign exchange risk the volatility of future interest costs within acceptable limits. with respect to the value of NOK against currencies caused by Group policy is to interest rate hedge all long-term loans till at income and expenses in foreign currency. The group uses forward least 60 per cent of total debt at all time is hedged for at least 12 contracts to reduce the foreign exchange risk in cash flow nomimonths. nated in foreign currency. The group and Avinor AS are primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to EUR. The group manages its effective interest exposure risk by using various interest rate swaps. The group’s income from en route charges is exposed to foreign exchange risk. For Avinor the risk is connected to the transfer of At 31 December 2016 approximately all interest rate swaps are the revenue to Norway. The period from the determination of the adopted to the terms of specific loans and other conditions. When exchange rate to the actual payment is about three months. the interest rate swaps are taken into consideration, the group has 81 per cent of its long-term borrowings at a fixed rate of interest Revenue in foreign currency is sold forward to the extent that it is for at least 12 months. not hedged by cash outflow in the same currency. The group also has foreign exchange risk connected to contractual payments in At 31 December 2016 the group had interest rate swaps at a foreign currency. As a fundamental principle, hedging of transface value of MNOK 5,680 (2015: MNOK 5,932), where the group action risk for contracts in foreign exchange is carried through receives a variable rate and pays a fixed rate of 3.24 per cent of face for contract exceeding the value of MNOK 2. Normally, forward value. The interest rate swaps are used to hedge against volatility contracts entered into do not have terms exceeding three years. in the P&L reportings as a result of changes in the interest levels. Foreign exchange rate derivatives do not normally qualify for hedge accounting. All interest swaps are made as a hedge against financial risk caused by cash flow interest rate risk. All interest swaps are carried at their fair value in the balance sheet. 74 AVINOR AS The following table presents the group’s sensitivity to a defined interest rate shift as at 31 December. The simulation take into consideration all interest rate derivatives. CHANGES IN INTEREST IMPACT ON PREIMPACT ON EQUITY AVINOR AS LEVELS IN BASIS POINTS TAX PROFIT (MNOK) (MNOK) 2016 +50 0.0 -16.5 -50 0.0 16.5 2015 +50 0.8 -25.1 -50 -0.8 25.1 CHANGES IN INTEREST IMPACT ON PREIMPACT ON EQUITY AVINOR GROUP LEVELS IN BASIS POINTS TAX PROFIT (MNOK) (MNOK) 2016 +50 0.0 -7.7 -50 0.0 7.7 2015 +50 0.8 -11.7 -50 -0.8 11.7 Based on the financial instruments at 31 December 2016 , the simulation shows that if the interest rate had been 0.5 per cent higher, pretax profit for the year would have been MNOK 0.0 lower (2015: MNOK 0,8). The average yield on financial instruments were as follows: 2016 (%) 2015 (%) Overdraft IA IA State Loan 1,79 2,16 Debenture Loan 3,52 3,35 Bank Loan 3,62 3,91 The figures include interest hedging derivatives. At 31 December 2016 Avinor AS had total borrowings amounting to MNOK 19,288.2 (2015: MNOK 13,681.5) in addition to a overdraft of MNOK 0.0 (2015: MNOK 0.0). (iii) Power price risk The group is a consumer of electrical power. Avinor AS has entered into financial power contracts via Nasdaq OMX to hedge parts of it’s power consumption. At 31 December 2016 approximately 84 per cent of 2017’s estimated consumption is covered by such contracts. The group does not apply hedge accounting to these contracts. Power purchases are made in EUR. The fair value of power contracts is estimated at MNOK -0.7 (2015: MNOK – 43.3) based on the exchange rate at year-end. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 75 Sensitivity analysis of electrical power contracts at 31 December (impact on pre-tax profit (MNOK) as a consequense of a 20% increase in power price): AVINOR AS MARKET VALUE 31 DECEMBER IMPACT ON PRE-TAX PROFIT 2016 -0.7 21.2 2015 -22.7 8.9 AVINOR GROUP MARKET VALUE 31 DECEMBER IMPACT ON PRE-TAX PROFIT 2016 -0.7 21.2 2015 -43.3 17.3 CREDIT RISK The group’s credit risks are mainly connected to airlines and air traffic-related industries. The grouphas credit risks attached to three main customers. The group assesses the risk that customers cannot fulfil their obligations as moderate. The group has guidelines to limit exposure to possible losses. The group has not made any third-party guarantees. Maximum risk exposure is illustrated by the carried amount of the financial assets, including derivatives in the balance sheet. Since the opposite party in derivatives trading is normally banks and the power trade exchange, the credit risk connected to derivatives is assessed as small. The group’s assessment is that the group’s maximum credit exposure is illustrated by the carried amounts of trade receivables and other short-term assets (see note 14). The group does not have any material overdue trade receivables (see note 14). The group’s main bank connexion has external credit rating A-1 (short term) and A+ (long term) (Standard & Poors). Creditworthiness in trade receivables and intra-group accounts in detail Credit risk in non-due financial instruments which have not been written down, may be evaluated by external sources (if available) or based on previous negative credit records. Classification of historical information (unimpaired trade receivables): Group 1 – new customers/related parties (in the last six months) Group 2 – existing customers/related parties ( for more than six months) with no history of default Group 3 – existing customers/related parties ( for more than six months) with a history of default. All amounts have been paid in full after the default. All intra-groups accounts and the major part part of customer receivables are classified in group 2. No financial assets have been renegotiated during the last financial year. No part of the loans to related parties is overdue or impaired. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations when they are due. The group strategy is to meet the risk by having sufficient funds available at anytime to be able to fulfil the financial obligations when they are due, both under normal or extraordinary circumstances, without risking unacceptable losses. The group shall have a liquidity reserve sufficient, at anytime, to maintain business for at least twelve months without raising new loans. Unused credit facilities are described in note 14. 76 AVINOR AS The table below analyses the maturity structure of the group’s financial obligations, based on contracual undisconted cash-flow. In the case where the opposite party may demand an earlier payment, the amount is presented in the earliest period the payment may be demanded. If payment may be demanded on request, the obligations are included in the first column (less than 1 month): REMAINING PERIOD LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN OVER 5 AVINOR AS 1 MONTH 1 3 MONTHS 3 12 MONTHS 1 5 YEARS YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2016 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 9.1 106.9 865.4 10 165.6 10 060.0 21 207.0 Other commitments 1.7 3.3 14.9 158.6 0.0 178.5 Trade payables 415.7 204.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 620.5 Other current liabilities 311.9 153.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 465.5 Total 738.4 468.6 880.3 10 324.2 10 060.0 22 471.5 31 December 2015 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 13.8 490.3 832.4 3 570.1 12 800.5 17 707.1 Other commitments 1.5 3.0 13.6 99.9 0.5 118.5 Trade payables 154.2 75.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 230.1 Other current liabilities 355.6 175.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 530.7 Total 525.0 744.4 846.0 3 670.0 12 801.0 18 586.4 1) Derivatives included REMAINING PERIOD LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN OVER 5 AVINOR GROUP 1 MONTH 1 3 MONTHS 3 12 MONTHS 1 5 YEARS YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2016 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 46.3 208.9 959.8 10 590.7 10 588.2 22 393.9 Other commitments 2.7 5.5 24.7 167.3 0.0 200.2 Trade payables 459.2 226.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 685.4 Other current liabilities 320.6 157.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 478.5 Total 828.8 598.5 984.5 10 758.0 10 588.2 23 758.0 31 December 2015 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 26.5 501.4 1 452.1 5 972.0 14 890.1 22 842.1 Other commitments 3.0 6.0 27.4 179.7 0.5 216.6 Trade payables 295.5 145.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 441.1 Other current liabilities 374.6 184.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 559.1 Total 699.6 837.5 1 479.5 6 151.7 14 890.6 24 058.9 1) Derivatives included See note 14 for information about long term loans. In addition to refinancing of the borrowings described above, the group will, the next few years, require financing of new infrastructure in the form of capacity expansion measures. The gross financing requirement includes refinancing of existing borrowings as described above, building of new terminals at Gardermoen and at Flesland and other plenned investment activities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 77 OTHER INFORMATION The fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments is presented as a current asset/short-term debt or financial asset/longterm debt depending upon the maturity date of the corresponding hedged item. The interest swaps have terms between 0.5 and 8.0 years. CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND EQUITY The main objective of the group’s management of capital structure is to ensure that the group’s main business objectives are reached within sound financial limits. The paramount financial objectives (sound financial limits) are the following: 1. Equity ratio: 40 per cent (according to article 11 of the company's Articles of Association) 2. Net asset value shall minimum be equal to the carried value of equity The group manages its capital structure and makes necessary adjustments based on a continuing evaluation of the existing economic business climate and the outlook in the shortand medium-term. Article 11 of the company's Articles of Association lays down the following financial limitation: Long-term borrowings for the funding of long-term assets may only be raised within a limit which ensures that the group's equity does not fall at any time below 40 per cent of the carrying amount of the group's long-term interest-bearing debt plus equity. Existing borrowings have covenants regarding amount of equity. There are no equity requirement for the bonds. The loan agreements with EIB and NIB requires equity of minimum 30 per cent of equity pluss net interest-bearing debt. AVINOR AS 2016 2015 Interest-bearing debt 18 819.0 13 333.6 Equity 13 117.8 8 571.8 Total equity and interest-bearing debt 31 936.8 21 905.4 Gearing ratio 58.9 % 60.9 % Equity ratio 41.1 % 39.1 % Net debt to equity ratio 42.3 % 42.3 % AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 Interest-bearing debt 19 504.6 17 935.4 Equity 14 936.6 14 832.1 Total equity and interest-bearing debt 34 441.2 32 767.5 Gearing ratio 56.6 % 54.7 % Equity ratio 43.4 % 45.3 % Net debt to equity ratio 44.6 % 47.7 % 78 AVINOR AS FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and financial power forward contracts is based on market value at the balance sheet date. The fair value of all interest rate swaps is confirmed by the financial institutions which are the company's opposite party in the financial contracts entered into. The carrying amount of cash and bank overdrafts is approximately equal to the fair value of these instruments as they fall due in a short period of time. Similarly, the carrying amount of receivables and payables is approximately equal to fair value as they are entered into under normal conditions. The fair value of long-term debt is based on quoted market prices or on the interest rates for debt with corresponding terms and similar credit margin. The fair value of commercial papers equals principal amount as at 31 December 2016. Below is a comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of Avinor AS and the group's interest-bearing debt. 2016 2015 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AVINOR AS AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt: State loan 2 971.7 2 999.6 0.0 0.0 Bonds 8 674.7 9 214.1 9 256.2 9 839.0 Bank borrowings 6 241.8 6 879.2 4 025.3 4 699.9 Commercial papers 1 400.0 1 400.0 400.0 400.0 2016 2015 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AVINOR GROUP AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt: State loan 2 971.7 2 999.6 3 416.1 3 482.2 Bonds 8 674.7 9 214.1 9 256.2 9 839.0 Bank borrowings 6 889.7 7 579.0 5 130.4 5 936.2 Commercial papers 1 400.0 1 400.0 400.0 400.0 The table below shows financial instruments at fair value by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: ·· Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1). ·· Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2). ·· Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 79 The following table presents the group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2016: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 Interest rate contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate contracts 0.0 504.0 0.0 504.0 Total assets 0.0 505.0 0.0 505.0 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.8 Power contracts 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.7 Interest rate contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Bonds 0.0 1 436.8 0.0 1 436.8 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 52.0 0.0 52.0 Total liabilities 0.7 1 489.6 0.0 1 490.3 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 2 999.6 0.0 2 999.6 Bonds 0.0 9 214.2 0.0 9 214.2 Bank borrowings 0.0 7 579.0 0.0 7 579.0 Commercial papers 0.0 1 400.0 0.0 1 400.0 Total 0.0 21 192.8 0.0 21 192.8 There were no transfers between levels during the year. 80 AVINOR AS The following table presents the group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2015: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 14.6 0.0 14.6 Interest rate contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 11.3 0.0 11.3 Interest rate contracts 0.0 635.0 0.0 635.0 Total assets 0.0 660.9 0.0 660.9 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 7.0 0.0 7.0 Power contracts 43.3 0.0 0.0 43.3 Interest rate contracts 0.0 7.4 0.0 7.4 Bonds 0.0 1 382.8 0.0 1 382.8 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 80.7 0.0 80.7 Total liabilities 43.3 1 477.9 0.0 1 521.2 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 3 482.2 0.0 3 482.2 Bonds 0.0 9 839.0 0.0 9 839.0 Bank borrowings 0.0 5 936.2 0.0 5 936.2 Commercial papers 0.0 400.0 0.0 400.0 Total 0.0 19 657.4 0.0 19 657.4 There were no transfers between levels during the year. Interest-bearing debt in level 2 The fair value estimation is collected from the groups treasury system and checked against fair value estimates from the main bank connecion. The fair value of the interest-bearing debt is estimated based on the difference between the coupon/fixed rate of interest on the interest-bearing debt compared with 3 months NIBOR and implicit funding spread from the market. NOTE 4 Segment information All amounts in MNOK Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the group management. The Avinor group operates 46 airports in Norway including Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Operations also include air traffic control towers, control centres and technical infrastructure for aircraft navigation. The operating segments are determined based on the reports used by the group management to evaluate presentations and profitability at a strategic level. The segment information shows the operating profit/(loss) distributed according to the internal organising of the group. For management purpose the group is organised in one air navigation service unit and one airport operation unit according to the group’s cash generating units. To better the evaluation of the airport operation unit, the management has choosen to present the airports in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and the rest inn addition to property development and hotels separately. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 81 The segment information provided to the group management for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2016 is as follows: AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016: TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 1 955.1 537.2 413.3 361.6 892.0 4 159.2 Sales and rental income 3 364.0 541.2 450.9 320.0 620.6 5 296.7 Inter-segment income 67.2 16.1 47.0 31.3 57.4 219.0 Total income 5 386.3 1 094.5 911.1 712.8 1 570.0 9 674.8 Employee benefits expense 519.6 121.6 100.5 87.5 784.3 1 613.6 Depreciation and amortisation 864.1 125.2 104.7 93.5 393.0 1 580.5 Other operating expenses 1 736.1 247.2 165.9 129.0 911.7 3 189.9 Inter-segment expenses 352.1 140.7 145.4 112.5 565.5 1 316.3 Total expenses 3 472.0 634.8 516.5 422.5 2 654.5 7 700.2 Operating profit/(loss) 1 914.3 459.7 394.7 290.4 -1 084.5 1 974.6 Assets 16 487.6 2 017.6 1 616.4 1 775.2 6 021.9 27 918.7 AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED: TOTAL AIR PROPERTY AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 159.2 984.7 -0.8 5 143.0 Sales and rental income 5 296.7 201.5 106.0 40.9 5 645.0 Inter-segment income 219.0 804.6 40.5 641.5 -1 705.7 0.0 Total income 9 674.8 1 990.8 146.5 681.6 -1 705.7 10 788.0 Employee benefits expense 1 613.6 1 319.7 0.0 392.8 3 326.1 Depreciation and amortisation 1 580.5 81.8 37.0 63.6 1 762.9 Other operating expenses 3 189.9 355.7 5.6 390.0 3 941.2 Inter-segment expenses 1 316.3 103.7 22.8 263.0 -1 705.7 0.0 Total expenses 7 700.2 1 861.0 65.5 1 109.3 -1 705.7 9 030.2 Operating profit/(loss) 1 974.6 129.9 81.0 -427.7 0.0 1 757.8 Assets 27 918.7 673.8 863.0 155.1 29 610.6 The segment information provided to the group management for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2015 is as follows: AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015: TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 1 946.9 557.6 455.9 359.8 903.1 4 223.3 Sales and rental income 3 052.6 600.6 473.2 306.7 615.7 5 048.8 Inter-segment income 42.3 13.3 45.9 29.1 21.4 152.0 Total income 5 041.8 1 171.5 975.0 695.6 1 540.2 9 424.1 Employee benefits expense 542.6 128.4 103.9 93.7 849.3 1 717.9 Depreciation and amortisation 604.0 83.8 100.3 90.1 413.6 1 291.8 Other operating expenses 1 404.1 280.9 192.4 127.5 958.1 2 962.9 Inter-segment expenses 327.8 144.2 147.8 114.4 557.2 1 291.4 Total expenses 2 878.5 637.4 544.3 425.6 2 778.2 7 264.0 Operating profit/(loss) 2 163.2 534.1 430.7 270.0 -1 238.1 2 160.1 Assets 8 695.8 1 761.4 1 791.7 1 974.6 6 730.0 20 953.5 82 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONTINUED: TOTAL AIR PROPERTY AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 223.3 1 024.8 0.0 -0.2 5 248.0 Sales and rental income 5 048.8 220.5 1 459.1 13.0 6 741.4 Inter-segment income 152.0 842.2 50.6 701.7 -1 746.4 0.0 Total income 9 424.1 2 087.4 1 509.7 714.5 -1 746.4 11 989.4 Employee benefits expense 1 717.9 1 369.5 0.0 379.1 3 466.6 Depreciation and amortisation 1 291.8 73.6 38.3 55.6 1 459.3 Other operating expenses 2 962.9 395.8 10.7 461.6 3 830.9 Inter-segment expenses 1 291.4 109.1 45.5 300.4 -1 746.4 0.0 Total expenses 7 264.0 1 948.0 94.4 1 196.7 -1 746.4 8 756.8 Operating profit/(loss) 2 160.1 139.4 1 415.3 -482.2 0.0 3 232.5 Assets 20 953.5 622.1 857.7 191.0 22 624.3 Non-current liabilities comprise state loan, bonds and bank borrowings Avinor AS and separate financing of hotels and car parks. Debt is not used by the group management as a control parameter at the segment level. The financing of the group and financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (group treasury) in accordance with guidelines approved by the board of directors, see note 3. Sales between segments are carried out at arm's length. The revenue from external parties reported to group management is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement. Revenue of approximately 2.4 billions, 1.6 billions and 1.4 billions, total 5.4 billions (2015: NOK 2.5 billions, 1.7 billions and 1.4 billions, total 5.5 billions) and 52 per cent (2015: 52 per cent) of total operating income are derived from three main customers. Revenue from the first customer is attributable to Oslo Airport, Bergen Airport, Stavanger Airport and Trondheim Airport. Revenue from the two other customers are attributable to all segments. NOTE 5 Operating income and other income All amounts in MNOK Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivables for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the group's activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group. Revenue is recognised as follows (most of the group's revenues consist of civil aviation fees and rent from property leases): Sale of traffic and real estate services Revenue from traffic services is recognised in the period the services are provided. Revenue from property leases with fixed lease payment is recognised in the period the services are provided, using a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Revenue from property leases with revenue-based lease payments is recognised when it is earned. Revenue from sale of real estate property is recognised when the risk and control of the object is transferred to the buyer, normally at the time of disposal. Sale of goods Revenue from sale of goods are recognised in the period the goods is delivered. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 83 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Traffic income Takeoff charges 1 147.3 677.0 1 149.7 1 179.4 Terminal charges 1 301.3 659.5 1 304.2 1 304.5 En route charges 0.0 0.0 984.7 1 023.6 Security charges 1 154.0 634.6 1 156.8 1 155.5 Terminal navigation charges 547.6 307.0 547.6 585.0 Total 4 150.2 2 278.1 5 143.0 5 248.0 Sales and rental income Duty free 2 552.0 844.3 2 552.0 2 512.0 Parking 868.8 455.0 868.8 868.4 Other 1 836.6 698.6 2 216.0 2 083.2 Total 5 257.4 1 997.9 5 636.8 5 463.6 Other operating income Intercompany services 150.4 700.7 0.0 0.0 Other 7.2 10.6 8.2 11.5 Total 157.6 711.3 8.2 11.5 Other income Profit on disposals of real estate property 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 266.3 Total 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 266.3 Total operating income 9 565.2 4 987.3 10 788.0 11 989.4 Sales and rental income from duty free and parking are mainly rental income. Profit on disposals of real estate property is from the sale of Hotell Vestre AS og Hotell Vestre Tomteselskap AS. NOTE 6 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Salaries and personnel costs Salaries 1 468.5 1 127.6 2 456.6 2 523.0 Payroll tax 213.4 165.2 363.5 370.6 Pension costs 239.5 216.2 387.3 463.8 Other personnel costs 69.4 45.1 118.7 109.1 Total 1 990.8 1 554.1 3 326.1 3 466.5 Reduction of total salaries and personnel costs: Salaries and personnel costs recognised in the balance sheet 78.2 83.5 138.4 125.8 Average number of man-years employed 2 012 1 701 3 115 3 327 84 AVINOR AS Group management: The group management consists of the group CEO and the managing director of each division and the largest subsidiary in addition to the managing directors of each corporate staff. 2016 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN NOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group management Dag Falk-Petersen 0 2 661 688 25 029 721 816 3 408 533 Øyvind Hasaas 0 2 026 203 18 223 623 381 2 667 808 Aslak Sverdrup 0 1 619 179 26 244 243 446 1 888 870 Leif Anker Lorentzen 0 1 619 129 13 923 284 640 1 917 692 Lasse Bardal 0 1 676 121 14 199 319 115 2 009 435 Mari Hermansen 0 1 667 835 26 508 414 218 2 108 561 Petter Johannessen 0 1 778 461 8 686 450 384 2 237 531 Anders Kirsebom 0 1 998 914 22 589 366 216 2 387 719 Jon Sjølander 0 1 805 188 17 002 373 450 2 195 640 Margrethe Snekkerbakken 0 1 841 481 17 007 436 001 2 294 489 Egil Thompson 0 1 685 238 27 106 405 696 2 118 040 Stine Ramstad Westby (from 15.03.2016) 0 1 518 042 18 992 285 276 1 822 310 Total 0 21 897 480 235 509 4 923 641 27 056 629 Board Ola Mørkved Rinnan 421 500 0 0 0 421 500 Ola H. Strand 260 500 0 0 0 260 500 Mari Thjømøe (until 29.06.2016) 122 500 0 0 0 122 500 Tone Merethe Lindberg 221 250 0 0 0 221 250 Herlof Nilssen 234 500 0 0 0 234 500 Linda Bernander Silseth (from 29.06.2016) 109 000 0 0 0 109 000 Eli Skrøvset 274 500 0 0 0 274 500 Per Erik Nordsveen 212 500 772 703 5 967 98 166 1 089 336 Grete Ovnerud 248 500 923 463 5 516 276 506 1 453 985 Heidi Anette Sørum 215 000 864 731 10 359 142 521 1 232 611 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen 215 000 939 823 10 359 273 785 1 438 967 Total 2 534 750 3 500 719 32 201 790 978 6 858 648 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 85 2015 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN NOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group management Dag Falk-Petersen 0 2 546 579 104 449 728 279 3 379 307 Øyvind Hasaas 0 1 888 977 18 149 622 747 2 529 873 Aslak Sverdrup 0 1 576 516 12 843 276 850 1 866 208 Leif Anker Lorentzen 0 1 578 253 13 423 321 610 1 913 286 Lasse Bardal 0 1 638 559 13 691 351 959 2 004 209 Mari Hermansen 0 1 617 931 25 191 459 403 2 102 525 Petter Johannessen 0 1 718 590 32 499 483 512 2 234 602 Anders Kirsebom 0 1 974 309 20 306 400 680 2 395 295 Jon Sjølander 0 1 747 915 21 975 399 218 2 169 109 Margrethe Snekkerbakken 0 1 814 421 17 147 447 894 2 279 463 Egil Thompson 0 1 651 830 39 852 461 433 2 153 115 Total 0 19 753 878 319 527 4 953 586 25 026 992 Board Ola Mørkved Rinnan 409 750 0 0 0 409 750 Ola H. Strand 258 500 920 0 0 259 420 Mari Thjømøe 225 500 0 0 0 225 500 Tone Merethe Lindberg 215 000 920 495 0 216 415 Dag Hårstad (until 02.06.2015) 119 000 0 510 0 119 510 Herlof Nilssen (from 02.06.2015) 108 500 0 0 0 108 500 Eli Skrøvset 266 500 0 0 0 266 500 Per Erik Nordsveen 209 000 750 639 5 692 86 449 1 051 780 Grete Ovnerud 241 500 1 022 266 5 214 264 774 1 533 754 Heidi Anette Sørum 209 000 700 857 10 044 113 315 1 033 216 Olav Aadal (until 02.06.2015) 121 500 1 413 511 5 214 226 639 1 766 864 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen (from 02.06.2015) 106 000 916 964 10 487 282 840 1 316 291 Total 2 489 750 4 806 077 37 656 974 017 8 307 500 On termination or changes in conditions of employment or board appointment no obligations exist to give the group management or the board any distinct compensation, beyond what is stated in note 7. Nor are there any arrangements concerning bonuses, profit sharing or share-based payments. No loans or guarantees have been given to the members of the group management or the board. None of the members of the group management have received any remunerations or economic benefits from other companies in the group, other than shown in the table above. There is no additional remuneration to executives for special services other than normal operations, see note 7. 86 AVINOR AS NOTE 7 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' DECLARATION ON ·· Tor-Øivind Skogseth, Assistent Managing Director and Director THE DETERMINATION OF SALARIES AND OTHER Customers and Public Relations REMUNERATION FOR THE CEO AND OTHER EXECUTIVE ·· Jan Østby, Director Remote Services EMPLOYEES OF THE AVINOR GROUP 2016 ·· Marisa Luisa Ruiz Retamar, Director HR and Competence ·· Kresten Lyngstad, CFO According to article 8 of the company's articles of association, ·· Anne-Kr. Aagaard Chavez, Director Safety and Quality the Board of Directors shall prepare a declaration concerning the ·· Geir Ove Heir, Director Remote Tower Center determination of salaries and other remuneration for the senior management. This declaration shall be included as a note in the Svalbard Lufthavn AS: annual accounts. The declaration shall contain the contents ·· Morten Ulsnes, Managing Director specified in section 6-16a of the Public Limited Companies Act, and shall in addition give an account of how the 'Government's 2. Declaration's validity policy for the remuneration of leading personnel in state-owned The declaration applies for the coming financial year, ref. article enterprises and companies' is followed up in the company's 8 of the articles of association and section 6-16a (2) of the Public wholly owned subsidiaries. The declaration shall be handled at Limited Companies Act. The Group's Board of Directors will the company's ordinary general meeting. Reference is made to use the principles described in this declaration as the basis for section 5-6 third paragraph of the Public Limited Companies Act determining the remuneration of the CEO and in its assessment and the Government's policy for the remuneration of leading perand monitoring of the CEO's determination of remuneration of sonnel in state-owned enterprises and companies, as set out by executive employees. the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2015. 3. The main principles of the Group's executive employee 1. Employees covered by the declaration remuneration policy This declaration covers executive employees of the Group; Avinor Avinor's executive remuneration policy has to comply with the AS and the wholly owned subsidiaries Avinor Flysikring AS and Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel Svalbard Lufthavn AS. Oslo Lufthavn AS merged with Avinor AS in state-owned enterprises and companies (as set out by the at 11 January 2016. Managing Director of Oslo Lufthavn AS now Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2015). holds the title of Airport Director Oslo Airport Gardermoen and Executive remuneration in the Group should comprise a competis a member of the executive management team of Avinor AS. itive but not leading salary when compared to similar companies. Svalbard Lufthavn demerged from Avinor AS and was established as a separate limited company with effect as from 1 June 2016. The 3.1 Salary Managing director is covered by this declaration. At 1 January 2017 The main element of the Group's remuneration packages must be , the Group's executive management team comprised the following a fixed basic salary. employees, who are covered by this declaration: 3.2 Directors' remuneration Avinor AS: No remuneration is paid for board appointments in other ·· Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO companies in the Avinor Group. ·· Petter Johannessen, CFO ·· Mari Hermansen, Executive Vice President HR, Legal and 3.3 Benefits in kind Procurement Executive employees shall receive the benefits in kind that are ·· Egil Thompson, Executive Vice President Communications, common for comparable positions. These may include a car Brand and Public Relations allowance, free newspapers/magazines, free phone, laptop, ·· Jon Sjølander, Executive Vice President Strategy printer and free broadband service. ·· Margrethe Snekkerbakken, Executive Vice President Regional and Local Airports Division In the CEO's agreement, a car allowance may be replaced with a ·· Øyvind Hasaas, Airport Director Oslo Airport Gardermoen company car within the framework set by the Board. ·· Lasse Bardal, Airport Director Trondheim Airport Værnes ·· Leif A. Lorentzen, Airport Director Stavanger Airport Sola 3.4 Performance pay ·· Aslak Sverdrup, Airport Director Bergen Airport Flesland A performance pay scheme may be established for executive ·· Stine R. Westby, Executive Vice President Operations and employees based on individual targets. There must be a clear Infrastructure correlation between performance pay targets and the Group's targets. Any scheme will be structured in accordance with the Avinor Flysikring AS: guidelines specified in the owner’s statement. ·· Anders Kirsebom, Managing Director ·· Jan-Gunnar Pedersen, Director Business Area En-Route 4. Options and share programmes ·· Snorre Andresen, Director Business Area Tower and Approach No options or similar schemes will be established in the comServices pany. No share programme involving share-based remuneration ·· Ellen Lystad, Acting Director System Operations will be established in the company. ·· Håkan Olsson, Acting Director Development and Projects COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 87 5. Pension plans 6. Termination and severance pay Executive employees shall participate in the Group's general There is a three-month notice period applicable to both parties pension plan. The basis for calculating pension entitlements shall calculated from the first day of the month after notice is given. not exceed 12G (where G = National Insurance Scheme's basic Notice shall be given in writing. amount). The terms shall be similar to the terms that apply for other company employees. The age limit is 70 years. For executive The CEO and Managing Directors of subsidiaries have waived employees, members of the Group's executive management and their employment protection under the Norwegian Working Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS the age limit is 67 Environment Act. For these people severance pay equivalent to years. In the Agreement with the Group,s executive management 12 months' fixed salary may be agreed, including the salary of and Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS concluded before any notice period. Severance pay is calculated on the basis of the the guidelines from 15.2.2015, a defined-contribution retirement employee's regular monthly salary at the time of termination. No pension scheme for salaries exceeding 12G have been estabholiday pay is accrued on the basis of the severance pay beyond lished, inclusive a disability pension scheme. the salary during the notice period. Retirement pensions are contribution-based for salaries exeeding The severance package, for those employed after 01.01.2015, will 12G with different rates dependent on age and are administered be reduced by a proportional amount calculated on the basis of through the company's operating budget until further notice. the new annual income in the event of appointment to a new Current personnel are divided into four age groups. The pension position or if an income is received from an enterprise of which basis for contributions is the agreed fixed salary, and payment the employee concerned is an active owner. will commence once the retirement age has been reached in accordance with the individual agreement. Payment of the The employee is only entitled to severance pay in excess of their supplementary pension is executed by Avinor's payroll departsalary during the notice period if they accept the termination, ment monthly once the age limit of 67 is reached. A condition of leave at the request of the employer, and do not submit any claim payment is that the employee has resigned from their position in relation to the rules of the Norwegian Working Environment in the company. If the employee retires from the Group before Act with regard to protection against dismissal, etc. reaching their pensionable age, the severance agreement is to include a date for when payment of the pension is to start. Severance pay may be withheld if there are ground for dismissal, or if irregularities or omissions are found during the period in The following contribution plan applies: which severance pay is to be given, which may result in liability for damages or the employees being prosecuted for violation of For senior executives aged 60 and over: the law. ·· 30 % av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and ·· 25 % av pensionable income over 18G The CEO has concluded such an agreement dated 14 January 2011. A notice period of three months and a severance payment For senior executives aged 55 to 60: of 12 months have been agreed, which become payable upon ·· 25 % av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and termination by the Company. The agreement contains provisions ·· 20 % av pensionable income over 18G for the deduction of income from a new employer, and ceases if the employee is entitled to a disability benefit or retirement penFor senior executives aged 50 to 55: sion under the agreement. The CEO is not entitled to pay after ·· 20 % av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and termination of employment if the employment is terminated due ·· 15 % av pensionable income over 18G to circumstances which may result in grounds for dismissal. For other executive employees, an advanced agreement for severance For senior executives aged up to 50: pay with finally determined compensation at retirement, can not ·· 15 % av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and be entered into. Instead, an advance agreement with a reasonable ·· 10 % av pensionable income over 18G severance pay may be agreed on, effective only if the employee is not contesting dismissal. These agreements apply correspondWhen moving up to a new rate following a birthday, this takes ingly to the agreements applicable to the CEO and Managing effect from the first date of the month following the birthday. Directors of subsidiaries. The employer has the full right to manage their pension scheme In the agreements with executive employees in the Group, for salaries exceeding 12G. Executive employees appointed after concluded before the new guidelines, severance pay is agreed on. 13.2.15 are only entitled to be a member of the Group's general pension plan. 7. Executive remuneration policy and implementation of the guidelines in the preceding year Annual disability pension amounts to (100 per cent disability) The salary policy for executive employees in 2016 has been 38.4 per cent of salaries between 12G and 27G. The full annual conducted in accordance with the above guidelines and the disability pension presupposes that insured at retirement will get guidelines discussed at the Annual General Meeting on 29 June a time period of at least 20 years. If the length of services is less, 2016. This applies both to Avinor AS, Avinor Flysikring AS and the disability pension will be reduced proportionally. Svalbard Lufthavn AS. 88 AVINOR AS In connection with the wage settlement, the CEO's fixed salary The scheme is administered by Avinor through day-to-day was adjusted by 2.4 per cent. The basic salary of other senior operations. The premium is not taxable and dutiable. The scheme personnel in Avinor AS was adjusted in average by 2.4 per cent. is closed for new senior personnel after 13 February 2015. The base salary of the Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS was adjusted by 2.4 per cent. Other senior personnel in Avinor The individual's total pension cost is stated in the notes to the Flysikring AS was adjusted in average 2.4 per cent. The wage financial statements. settlement is based on evaluation of performance. The Board's declaration concerning the determination of salaries The managing director of Svalbard Lufthavn AS was given a and other remuneration was published for the first time in wage rise of NOK 60 000 with effect from the 1st of June when he the 2011 financial year. Executive remuneration packages are became the managing director of the company. Excluding this reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. Executive remunerarise, his adjustment for 2016 would have been 2.3 per cent. tion agreements entered into before this point in time shall not be negatively affected by this declaration. The total cost of the contribution-based pension scheme for salary exceeding 12G for senior personnel before 13 February The remuneration and other benefits received by executive 2015 was NOK 2,177,705 in 2016. employees in 2016 are provided in note 6 of the annual financial statement for 2016. NOTE 8 Other expenses All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Other operating expenses Rent buildings/land 73.5 112.8 57.8 56.5 Management/maintenance buildings 600.1 221.2 642.6 542.4 Repairs, maintenance operational materials 373.6 234.5 413.1 405.2 Control/security/guard services 971.6 578.0 975.0 957.1 Meteorological services 3.1 0.0 41.9 35.9 Consulting services 235.2 151.7 261.8 305.2 Other external services 565.9 365.4 591.8 595.6 Other operating expenses 1 259.4 947.6 581.8 618.1 Total 4 082.4 2 611.2 3 565.8 3 516.0 For accounting policies concerning operating leases, see note 13. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Auditor's fees Auditor's fee fixed charge (VAT not included): Statutory audit fee 0.6 0.4 1.0 1.0 Other auditors's fees charged to profit and loss (VAT not included): Extended financial audit services 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.5 Other attestation assignments 0.6 0.5 0.8 0.6 Tax advisory services 0.2 0.0 0.2 0.0 Accounting assistance including IFRS 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 0.9 0.9 1.2 1.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 89 NOTE 9 Impact on earnings – Terminal 2 project All amounts in MNOK As a result of the development of Gardermoen (Terminal 2 project) the income statement includes charges for extra costs related to the maintenance of normal operations during the construction period, as well as costs related to the scrapping of assets, including higher depreciation as a result of a re-assessed economic life. Part of the charges for extra costs is based on estimates that are continually updated. SPECIFICATION 2016 2015 Employee benefits expense Payroll and other personnel expenses for operating personnel 40.1 52.2 Total 40.1 52.2 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges Higher depreciation as the result of scrapping portions of the terminal 80.6 60.5 Total 80.6 60.5 Other operating expenses Operational coordination 86.6 55.7 Security 38.2 13.4 More bussing 15.2 15.3 Consulting services 2.0 0.7 Staff/support 44.6 9.4 Demolishing expenses existing plant 53.7 -0.7 Additional contract costs related to maintenance of normal operations during the construction period 67.6 98.2 Other 7.9 3.2 Total 315.8 195.2 Total 436.5 307.9 NOTE 10 Other expenses All amounts in MNOK The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward energy contracts are purchased at Nasdaq OMX. None of these derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the income statement within 'changes in value and other losses/gains net' or within 'finance cost'. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2016 2015 2016 2015 Other expenses Changes in value and other losses/gains net -19.7 16.2 -18.9 42.9 Total -19.7 16.2 -18.9 42.9 Changes in value and other losses/gains net: Changes in value unrealised (note 14) -28.0 10.0 -34.9 17.6 Changes in value realised energy contracts 7.6 8.7 8.0 35.7 Foreign currency translation gains/losses 0.7 -2.5 8.0 -10.3 Total -19.7 16.2 -18.9 42.9 90 AVINOR AS NOTE 11 Finance income and costs All amounts in MNOK Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2016 2015 2016 2015 Finance income Interest income on short-term bank deposits 35.4 27.0 35.8 31.7 Interest income on loans to group companies 3.0 257.5 0.0 0.0 Group contributions and dividends received 75.2 352.8 0.0 1.7 Gains on financial instruments (note 19) 0.4 6.4 0.4 6.4 Total 114.0 643.7 36.2 39.8 Finance costs Interest expense on bank borrowings 567.2 441.8 601.0 594.8 Interest expense on loans from group companies 40.6 28.9 0.0 0.0 Interest expense on others 34.5 10.0 34.7 19.5 Other borrowing expenses 25.7 24.9 26.8 25.5 Borrowing costs capitalised (note 17) -235.3 -76.5 -235.3 -274.8 Net fair value gains/losses on bank borrowings including derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value loss on financial instruments (note 19) interest rate swaps: cash flow hedges, transfer from equity -7.4 -7.3 -7.4 3.4 interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 425.3 421.8 419.8 368.4 Finance income/(costs) net -311.3 221.9 -383.6 -328.6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 91 NOTE 12 Income tax expense and deferred income tax All amounts in MNOK The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is setteled. Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax assets are assessed against future taxable income and are evaluated separately. Net deferred tax asset The group has significant temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and its tax base. This has resulted in a significant deferred tax asset. An analysis made of the group's tax position shows that it is probable that this asset may be utilised by the group. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Income tax expense Current tax on profit for the year 65.5 0.9 136.6 334.5 Current tax on adjustments in respect of prior years 0.0 0.0 -0.2 2.6 Current tax on group contributions 0.0 1.6 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax, adjustments prior years 2.1 0.0 3.5 -3.0 Deferred tax on origination and reversal of temporary differences 245.9 42.3 212.2 117.1 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -2.4 -4.6 -6.5 3.6 Total 311.1 40.2 345.6 454.9 Effective tax rate reconciliation 25 (27)% of profit before tax 304.1 35.6 342.5 784.1 Effect of adjustments prior years 2.1 0.0 1.7 -0.5 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -2.4 -4.6 -6.5 3.6 Dividends received 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 Permanent differences 25 (27)% 7.3 0.3 7.9 -340.9 Permanent differences 25 (27)% Spitzbergen 0.0 9.0 0.0 9.0 Income tax expense 311.1 40.2 345.6 454.9 Effective tax rate 25.6 30.5 25.2 15.7 The Norwegian Directorate of Taxes, has in an advanced ruling decided that a compensation from Avinor AS to a subsidiary at Spitzbergen for the purchase of airport operation services will be tax deductible in Norway. A subsidiary was established 1 June 2016. An agreement on purchases at arm’s length was entered into to create a financial foundation for the subsidiary’s operations at Spitzbergen. This will also make it possible to utilize previously unrecognized tax losses at Spitzbergen. 92 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS: SPECIFICATION DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT AT 1 JANUARY MERGER/ TO THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY 2016 DEMERGER STATEMENT INCOME 2016 2017 Receivables 0.2 0.0 -0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Group contributions (receivables) -98.8 80.0 18.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets -692.4 -168.6 142.9 0.0 -718.1 -689.4 Borrowings -171.6 0.0 45.4 0.0 -126.2 -121.2 Provisions -120.8 -17.8 61.3 0.0 -77.3 -74.3 Pension benefits -271.3 -73.3 12.8 -81.1 -412.9 -396.4 Group contributions (payables) 1.5 0.0 0.0 -1.5 0.0 0.0 Profit and loss account -3.8 -6.3 1.3 0.0 -8.8 -8.5 Derivative financial instruments 152.2 -5.1 -36.4 11.6 122.3 117.4 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 204.7 -191.1 245.9 -71.0 -1 221.0 -1 172.2 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 96.3 48.8 Presented as: Equity reduction 95.7 0.0 Other comprehensive income expense 5.3 51.2 Profit and loss expense -4.6 -2.4 CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY TO THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2015 DEMERGER STATEMENT INCOME 2015 Receivables -0.1 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.3 Group contributions (receivables) -95.2 0.0 -11.5 0.0 -106.6 Non-current assets -834.3 1.0 85.5 0.0 -747.8 Borrowings -55.0 0.0 -130.3 0.0 -185.3 Provisions -112.9 0.0 -17.8 0.0 -130.6 Pension benefits -411.6 0.0 -13.7 132.1 -293.2 Group contributions (payables) 1.8 0.0 0.0 -0.1 1.6 Profit and loss account -4.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -4.1 Derivative financial instruments 35.7 0.0 129.6 -0.6 164.6 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 475.8 1.0 42.3 131.4 -1 301.0 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 215.4 -1 139.3 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -74.3 -219.4 -1 289.6 -1 358.7 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 117.4 152.4 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.0 1.5 117.5 154.0 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 172.2 -1 204.7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 93 AVINOR GROUP: SPECIFICATION DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT AT 1 JANUARY TO THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY 2016 STATEMENT INCOME 2016 2017 Receivables 0.1 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Non-current assets -817.8 154.1 0.0 -662.2 -635.8 Borrowings -171.6 45.4 0.0 -126.2 -121.2 Provisions -153.4 69.1 0.0 -84.3 -80.9 Pension benefits -486.2 -23.0 -137.1 -646.3 -620.5 Profit and loss account -10.5 1.5 0.0 -9.0 -8.6 Derivative financial instruments 130.6 -34.7 16.9 112.8 108.3 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 508.9 212.2 -120.2 -1 416.9 -1 358.7 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 121.0 56.3 Presented as: Equity reduction 117.9 0.0 Other comprehensive income expense -0.5 62.7 Profit and loss expense 3.6 -6.5 CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY TO THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2015 DISPOSALS STATEMENT INCOME 2015 Receivables -0.3 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.1 Non-current assets -1 065.3 6.4 175.1 0.0 -883.8 Borrowings -55.0 0.0 -130.3 0.0 -185.3 Provisions -147.5 0.0 -18.1 0.0 -165.6 Pension benefits -764.6 0.0 -42.2 280.9 -525.8 Profit and loss account -12.5 0.0 1.7 0.0 -10.8 Derivative financial instruments 7.0 0.0 127.5 6.7 141.2 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -2 038.1 6.4 114.1 287.6 -1 630.0 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 453.2 -1 559.0 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -81.1 -153.6 -1 534.3 -1 712.6 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 175.6 203.7 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.0 0.0 175.6 203.7 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 358.7 -1 508.9 94 AVINOR AS NOTE 13 Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment All amounts in MNOK INTANGIBLE ASSETS Separately acquired intangible assets are shown at historical cost. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Internally generated intangible assets, with the exception of development costs that are recognised as intangible assets, are recogised as an expense as incurred. Development costs are recognised as an intangible asset when all the criterias in IAS 38 are met. The useful life of an intangible asset is either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortised using the straightline method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives. Method of amortisation and estimated useful life is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in method and/or estimated useful life is accounted for as changes in estimates. Computer software Costs associated with purchasing new computer software are recognised as an intangible asset, unless it is a part of the acquisition of hardware. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful life, normally 5 years. Cost associated with maintaining computer software programs or maintaining future usage of computer software programs are expensed unless the changes enchance the future usage of the program. AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, AIRSPACE ORGANIZATION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2015 Cost 0.0 155.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 0.0 -140.0 Net book amount 0.0 15.7 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 0.0 15.7 Additions 77.8 143.9 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Amortisation charge -36.1 -42.4 Closing net book amount 41.7 117.2 At 31 December 2015 Cost 77.8 299.6 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -36.1 -182.4 Net book amount 41.7 117.2 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 41.7 117.2 Additions 2.7 4.1 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Amortisation charge -4.4 -12.5 Closing net book amount 39.9 108.8 At 31 December 2016 Cost 80.5 303.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -40.5 -194.9 Net book value 39.9 108.8 Estimated useful life 10 years 10 years Method of depreciation Straight-line Straight-line COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 95 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment. Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. Each material component of an asset is evaluated separately for the object of depreciation. The materiality is assessed from the cost of a component in relation to the cost of the whole asset. Land and housing are not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Buildings 10 50 years Infrastructure 5 40 years Runways and other related assets 15 50 years Vehicles 10 20 years Other non-current assets 5 15 years The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. LEASES The group as a lessee Finance leases: Leases where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Leases with contingent rents are expensed. Operating leases: Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. The group as a lessor Operating leases: The group presents rental assets as non-current assets in the balance sheet. Rental income is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. GOVERNMENT GRANTS A government grant is recognised at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that the group will comply with the conditions attached to it, and that the grant will be received. Government grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis. Government grants related to assets are presented in the statement of financial position by deducting the grant to arrive at the carrying amount of the asset. IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The difference between the carrying amount and recoverable amount is recognised as an impairment loss in the income statement. The recoverable amount is the highest of the cash-generating unit's fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. For the purpose of assessing impairment the whole group is defined as two cash generating units (CGU’s), see note 2. The assessment requires a great degree of professional judgement. Among other things, an assessment has to be made of how long a period of time the impairment may last and the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount, in addition to the financial position and expected development in the market, including operating and financing cash flows. 96 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2015 Cost 801.4 4 359.5 5 465.2 799.4 2 121.8 636.6 14 183.9 Accumulated depreciation -1.0 -1 388.1 -1 069.8 -312.0 -1 278.7 -290.8 -4 340.4 Net book amount 800.4 2 971.4 4 395.4 487.4 843.1 345.8 9 843.6 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 800.4 2 971.4 4 395.4 487.4 843.1 345.8 9 843.5 Additions 298.5 832.9 577.6 60.8 213.9 94.6 2 078.3 Disposals -0.9 -5.4 -0.9 -1.1 -4.1 0.0 -12.4 Depreciation charge -0.7 -197.8 -207.2 -41.8 -196.3 -28.2 -672.0 Closing net book amount 1 097.3 3 601.1 4 764.9 505.3 856.6 412.2 11 237.3 At 31 December 2015 Cost 1 099.0 5 183.3 6 041.3 855.0 2 278.6 727.9 16 185.1 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -1 582.2 -1 276.4 -349.7 -1 422.1 -315.7 -4 947.8 Net book amount 1 097.3 3 601.1 4 764.9 505.3 856.5 412.2 11 237.3 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 1 097.3 3 601.1 4 764.9 505.3 856.5 412.2 11 237.3 Additions 77.2 10 419.4 4 231.3 289.1 1 721.2 1 484.8 18 223.0 Disposals 0.0 -1.4 0.0 -1.1 -0.8 0.0 -3.3 Depreciation charge 0.0 -684.4 -378.8 -59.4 -356.0 -150.7 -1 629.3 Closing net book amount 1 174.5 13 334.7 8 617.4 733.9 2 220.9 1 746.3 27 827.7 At 31 December 2016 Cost 1 176.2 19 141.0 12 246.7 1 319.3 6 065.7 3 017.1 42 966.0 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -5 806.3 -3 629.3 -585.4 -3 844.8 -1 270.8 -15 138.3 Net book amount 1 174.5 13 334.7 8 617.4 733.9 2 220.9 1 746.3 27 827.7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 97 AVINOR GROUP RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2015 Cost 1 440.7 12 768.5 10 255.7 1 213.2 5 645.7 1 890.8 33 214.6 Accumulated depreciation -1.3 -4 473.2 -2 451.0 -533.0 -3 908.5 -806.7 -12 173.7 Net book amount 1 439.4 8 295.3 7 804.7 680.2 1 737.2 1 084.1 21 040.9 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 1 439.4 8 295.3 7 804.7 680.2 1 737.2 1 084.1 21 040.9 Additions 298.5 1 192.7 836.8 79.4 363.4 308.9 3 079.7 Disposals -2.8 -173.5 -0.9 -1.4 -4.5 -13.5 -196.6 Depreciation charge -0.8 -580.9 -337.8 -62.7 -365.3 -69.4 -1 416.9 Closing net book amount 1 734.3 8 733.6 8 302.8 695.5 1 730.8 1 310.1 22 507.1 At 31 December 2015 Cost 1 735.5 13 708.9 11 090.9 1 283.9 5 949.7 2 177.4 35 946.3 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -4 975.3 -2 788.1 -588.4 -4 218.9 -867.3 -13 439.2 Net book amount 1 734.3 8 733.6 8 302.8 695.5 1 730.8 1 310.1 22 507.1 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 1 734.3 8 733.6 8 302.8 695.5 1 730.8 1 310.1 22 507.1 Additions 102.9 5 980.8 662.2 136.4 1 390.9 479.4 8 752.6 Disposals 0.0 -2.1 -0.1 -1.1 -4.2 0.0 -7.5 Depreciation charge 0.0 -725.6 -381.9 -63.2 -428.2 -151.5 -1 750.4 Closing net book amount 1 837.2 13 986.7 8 583.0 767.6 2 689.3 1 638.0 29 501.8 At 31 December 2016 Cost 1 838.4 19 633.8 11 752.6 1 401.6 7 283.5 2 656.9 44 566.8 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -5 647.1 -3 169.6 -634.0 -4 594.2 -1 018.9 -15 065.0 Net book amount 1 837.2 13 986.7 8 583.0 767.6 2 689.3 1 638.0 29 501.8 Estimated useful life 10 50 years 15 50 years 10 20 years 5 15 years 5 40 years Method of depreciation NA Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line 98 AVINOR AS ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2015 Cost 3 074.0 7 913.6 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 3 074.0 7 913.6 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 3 074.0 7 913.6 Additions 2 091.2 5 421.3 Reclassification -1 822.2 -2 719.7 Closing net book amount 3 343.0 10 615.2 At 31 December 2015 Cost 3 343.0 10 615.2 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 3 343.0 10 615.2 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 3 343.0 10 615.2 Merger/demerger 6 915.4 0.0 Additions 4 610.1 4 854.7 Reclassification -8 617.6 -8 752.8 Closing net book amount 6 250.9 6 717.1 At 31 December 2016 Cost 6 250.9 6 717.1 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 6 250.9 6 717.1 Classified as intangible 0.0 122.0 Borrowing costs less cost to sell and its value in use. The group estimates both Property plant and equipment includes borrowing costs when fair value and value in use based on the present value of future the construction period of major asset is longer than one year. cash flows. Value in use is the present value of future cash flows Capitalised borrowing costs amounted to MNOK 235.3 in 2016 derived from existing assets (without improving or enhancing the and MNOK 274.8 in 2015. performance of these assets). The average capitalisation rate for 2016 was 3.49 per cent The group operates in its entirety in Norway and the present (2015: 3.93 per cent). value of future cash flow is therefore estimated in NOK. The future cash flow is then discounted based on an weighted average Security discount rate relevant for the group's type of operations. The rate Under Avinor AS's Articles of Association, assets from basic of return is based on 10-year Norwegian government securities operations cannot be pledged as security. adjusted for the group's business risk. The expense related to the debt ratio part of the weighted average rate of return is based Basis for the measurement of recoverable amount on the average market rate for the group. In the present value Due to the materiality of the group's assets and a future high estimate for 2016 the discount rate is 6.8 per cent before tax. investment level, impairment tests are carried out regularly. As at 31 December 2016 the measurement of recoverable amount The whole of Avinor group's operations have been defined as two for the whole group is estimated based on fair value less cost cash-generating units (CGU’s), see basic principles note 2. to sell. Fair value is estimated based on future cash flows from operations, including future capacity increasing activities such as An impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount of OSL Terminal 2 and expansion of the terminals at Flesland, Sola the group's assets is less than its carrying amount. The recoveraand Værnes. ble amount is the highest of the cash-generating unit's fair value COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 99 The valuation is based on several assumptions. The main assumptions used in the estimation of recoverable amount are (2015 figures in brackets): 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Passenger growth 2.9 (3.4) 3.1 (3.1) 3.3 (3.0) 3.2 (2.6) 2.2 (2.2) 2.4 (2.1) Consumer price index 2.2 (2.1) 2.1 (1.6) 2.0 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2032 Passenger growth 2.1 (2.0) 2.1 (2.0) 2.1 (1.9) 2.0 (1.9) 2.0 (1.9) 1.7-2.0 (1.6 -1.9) Consumer price index 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) There is close correlation between GDP (Norwegian mainland) and passenger growth. The estimates are based on real growth in expenses. The estimates include expected investments based on the group's long-term investment plan, including existing public regulations. The expected value of operations past fifteen years is determined as a terminal value. The terminal value is based on the assumption of a constant growth of 0.0 per cent and an estimated normalised investment level. As at 31 December 2016 there are no indications that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. NOTE 14 Finansielle eiendeler og forpliktelser All amounts in MNOK FINANCIAL ASSETS fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Thereafter they are carried Classification at amortised cost. Financial assets carried at fair value through The group classifies its financial assets in the following categoprofit and loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transacries: At fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables. tion costs are expensed in the income statement. Financial assets The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets were acquired. Management determines the classification investments have expired or have been transferred and the group of its financial assets at initial recognition. has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Impairment of financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are derivatives The group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether with a positive fair value. Assets in this category are classified as there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end financial assets is impaired. An impairment loss is recognised of the reporting period. when the loss is material and assumed to last for a longer period of time. Do not apply to financial assets at fair value through Loans and receivables profit and loss. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, excepts for maturities DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. These ACTIVIES are classified as non-current assets. The group's loans and receivables comprise 'trade and other receivables' in the balance sheet. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measRecognition and measurement ured at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated on the trade-date the date on which the group commits to as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being purchase or sell the assets. Investments are initially recognised at hedged. 100 AVINOR AS The group designates certain derivatives as either: attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement within 'finance costs'. (a) Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or a firm commitment ( fair value hedge) Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives (b) Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the hedge) ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within 'net finance costs'. The group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertakin the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss ( for ing various hedging transactions. The group also documents its example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of statement within 'finance costs'. hedged items. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge The full fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-curno longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumularent asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged tive gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that liability. was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. The group normally defines derivatives related to borrowings as hedging derivatives and as designated and qualified for hedge accounting. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the The group classifies its financial liabilities in the following purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward categories: At fair value through profit or loss and other financial energy contracts are purchased at Nasdaq OMX. None of these liabilities. The classification depends on the purpose for which derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. the financial liabilities were incurred. Management determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are derivaincome statement within 'changes in value and other losses/ tives with a negative fair value. Derivatives are initially recognised gains net' or within 'finance cost'. at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in the income statement. Assets in this category are classified as Fair value hedge current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and of the reporting period. qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or Other financial liabilities liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The group only Other financial liabilities are non-derivative financial liabilities applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest risk with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an on borrowings. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of active market. Other financial liabilities are recognised intially at interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the in the income statement within 'finance costs'. The gain or loss effective interest method. They are included in current liabilities, relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement statement within 'changes in value and other losses/(gains) net'. of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Changes in the fair value of the hedge fixed rate borrowings These are classified as non-current liabilities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 101 Policies used for susequent measurement of derivative financial instruments in the balance sheet: AVINOR AS ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2016 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 371.5 371.5 Derivative financial instruments 1.0 504.0 505.0 Other financial assets 390.6 390.6 Trade receivables 798.0 798.0 Other receivables 409.4 409.4 Cash and cash equivalents 938.1 938.1 Total 2 907.6 1.0 504.0 3 412.6 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 2 527.3 2 527.3 Loans and payables to group companies 2 753.3 2 753.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 14.3 15.6 Other long-term liabilities 14 477.3 14 477.3 Trade payables and other liabilities 3 390.1 3 390.1 Total 1.3 14.3 23 148.0 23 163.6 ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2015 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 7 711.5 7 711.5 Derivative financial instruments 4.5 635.0 639.5 Other financial assets 124.2 124.2 Trade receivables 519.7 519.7 Other receivables 34.5 34.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1 630.3 1 630.3 Total 10 020.2 4.5 635.0 10 659.7 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet Loans and payables to group companies 2 778.1 2 778.1 Derivative financial instruments 30.1 30.1 Other long-term liabilities 13 095.6 13 095.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 1 633.8 1 633.8 Total 30.1 0.0 17 507.5 17 537.6 102 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2016 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 1.0 504.0 505.0 Other financial assets 390.7 390.7 Trade receivables 1 009.5 1 009.5 Other receivables 420.7 420.7 Cash and cash equivalents 949.1 949.1 Total 2 770.0 1.0 504.0 3 275.0 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 2 527.3 2 527.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.5 52.0 53.5 Other long-term liabilities 15 073.0 15 073.0 Trade payables and other liabilities 3 520.2 3 520.2 Total 1.5 52.0 21 120.5 21 174.0 ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2015 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 14.7 646.4 661.1 Other financial assets 306.0 306.0 Trade receivables 1 075.3 1 075.3 Other receivables 249.9 249.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1 666.7 1 666.7 Total 3 297.9 14.7 646.4 3 959.0 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 2 971.7 2 971.7 Derivative financial instruments 57.7 80.8 138.5 Other long-term liabilities 14 123.8 14 123.8 Trade payables and other liabilities 2 394.4 2 394.4 Total 57.7 80.8 19 489.9 19 628.4 For information about the credit quality of financial assets see note 3. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 103 DERIVATE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 2015 MOVEMENT Assets Interest rate swaps 504.0 635.0 -131.0 504.0 635.0 -131.0 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.0 4.5 -3.5 1.0 26.0 -25.0 Forward energy contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 505.0 639.5 -134.5 505.0 661.0 -156.0 Liabilities Interest rate swaps 14.3 7.4 6.9 52.0 88.2 -36.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.8 7.0 -6.2 Forward energy contracts 0.7 22.7 -22.0 0.7 43.3 -42.6 15.6 30.1 -14.5 53.5 138.5 -85.0 Net movement -120.0 -71.0 Details of net movement: Merger -13.5 0.0 Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (note 10) 28.0 34.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts recognised in other comprehensive income -10.1 -11.1 Interest rate swaps recognised in finance costs (note 11) 7.4 7.4 Interest rate swaps recognised in other comprehensive income 48.4 78.0 Interests rate swaps changes in value -180.5 -180.5 Interest rate swaps termination value 0.3 0.3 All interest rate swaps, with the exception of one fair value hedge, are designated as cash flow hedges. Forward foreign exchange and energy contracts are not defined as hedge accounting and are classified as a current asset and/or liability. Interest rate swaps are defined as hedge accounting instruments and the fair value of the hedging instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. The ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement. The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2016 was MNOK 198 (2015: MNOK 399). The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward energy contracts at 31 December 2016 was MNOK 107 (2015: MNOK 130). The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swaps contracts at 31 December 2016 were MNOK 5,680 (2015: MNOK 5,932). At 31 December 2016, the fixed interest rates vary from 1.69% to 5.96% (2015: 1.69% to 5.96%). The main floating rate is NIBOR and fixed interest rate is Euro. Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income (note 15) on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2016 will be continuously released to the income statement until the repayment of the bank borrowings. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet. 104 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Other financial assets Other non-current receivables 390.6 124.2 390.7 306.0 Total 390.6 124.2 390.7 306.0 Other non-current receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed payments that are not quoted in an active market. Fair value of other financial assets are substantially identical with book value. TRADE RECEIVABLES, OTHER SHORT TERM RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Trade receivables 799,7 520,2 1 011,6 1 076,3 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables -1,7 -0,6 -2,1 -1,0 Trade receivables net 798,0 519,7 1 009,5 1 075,3 Receivables written off during the year 0,3 5,6 0,3 5,6 The fair value of trade receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. Loss on trade receivables is classified as other operating expense in the income statement. MOVEMENT IN THE PROVISION FOR IMPAIRMENT OF TRADE RECEIVABLES: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 At 1 January 0.6 0.9 1.0 1.7 This years provisions for receivables impairment 1.7 5.3 2.1 4.9 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible -0.3 -5.6 -0.3 -5.6 Unused amounts reversed -0.3 0.0 -0.7 0.0 At 31 December 1.7 0.6 2.1 1.0 Credit risk and foreign exchange risk are described in note 3. AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE COMPANY'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS: TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60D 60-90D >90D 2016 799.7 641.5 129.0 6.8 7.4 15.0 2015 520.2 454.9 45.3 4.0 1.2 14.8 AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE GROUP'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS: TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60D 60-90D >90D 2016 1 011.5 847.1 130.9 6.8 7.4 19.3 2015 1 076.3 922.9 76.5 15.3 21.2 40.4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 105 SPECIFICATION OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Trade receivables 798.0 519.7 1 009.5 1 075.3 Intra-group accounts 231.5 140.2 0.0 0.0 Accrued income 235.2 30.4 235.5 105.5 Prepaid expenses 29.7 36.2 53.2 53.2 Other short-term assets 174.0 4.1 185.2 144.4 Total 1 468.4 730.6 1 483.4 1 378.4 Fair value of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. THE CARRYING AMOUNT OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY IS: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Euro 0.0 1.2 86.3 91.5 Total 0.0 1.2 86.3 91.5 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and bank overdrafts. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Cash and bank at hand 938.1 1 630.3 949.1 1 666.7 Short-term bank deposits 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 938.1 1 630.3 949.1 1 666.7 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the statement of cash flows: Cash and cash equivalents 938.1 1 630.3 949.1 1 666.7 Bank overdrafts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 938.1 1 630.3 949.1 1 666.7 Avinor AS has a credit facility of MNOK 4,000 and a overdraft limit of MNOK 800 in a bank. Group bank account system: The Avinor bank accounts are organised as a group bank account system. Avinor AS is the formal holder of the bank account. The bank accounts of all subsidiaries are therefore formally receivables from Avinor AS, and these companies are jointly responsible for the withdrawals that the Avinor group has made. 106 AVINOR AS BORROWINGS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except for borrowings hedged with a derivative fair value hedge, which is also carried at fair value in subsequent periods. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Non-current borrowings State loan 2 527.3 0.0 2 527.3 2 971.7 Bonds 8 674.6 8 856.1 8 674.6 8 856.1 Bank borrowings 5 734.5 3 961.7 6 330.3 4 989.9 Others 4.6 277.8 4.6 277.8 Total long-term 16 941.0 13 095.6 17 536.8 17 095.5 Current borrowings Commercial papers 1 400.0 400.0 1 400.0 400.0 First year instalment on long-term debt 967.6 473.0 1 019.8 994.2 Total current 2 367.6 873.0 2 419.8 1 394.2 EFFECTIVE INFORMATION ABOUT STATE LOAN AND BANK BORROWINGS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE State loan NOK 1.79 % Bonds, inclusive commercial papers NOK/EUR 3.52 % Bank borrowings NOK 3.62 % The figures include interest hedging derivatives. The effective interest rate is calculated as a weighted average depending the relative size of the borrowings. See note 3 for a description of interest risk. INSTALMENT PROFILE 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 THEREAFTER TOTAL State loan 444.4 444.4 444.4 444.4 444.4 305.3 2 527.3 Bonds 0.0 700.0 450.0 2 725.9 0.0 4 798.7 8 674.6 Bank borrowings 179.4 239.4 510.4 510.4 510.4 4 380.3 6 330.3 Other 4.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.6 State loan The loan is divided into six equal debentures with different interest terms. Debentures one to five have interest rates equal to the interest rate used by the State when lending to public sector enterprises (average interest rate on five-year government bonds in the period October-September) plus 30 basis points. The interest on one of the debentures is renewed each year. The interest on the last debenture is set at three, six or twelve months NIBOR plus 20 basis points. The interest is payable in arrears at 31 December. The loan had originally a payment period of 20 years starting 2002. The term of the loan has subsequently been extended so that the final maturity date is in 2024. The first instalment was paid 30 June 2002. Bonds The loans, as at 31 December 2016, are as follows: ·· Face value MNOK 450, maturity date 8 May 2020, interest rate 3.75 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 2,000, maturity date 8 May 2028, interest rate 4.45 per cent ·· Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 20 March 2021, interest rate 1.75 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 700, maturity date 30 October 2019, interest rate 3 months NIBOR pluss 0.37 per cent ·· Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 29 April 2025, interest rate 1.00 per cent COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 107 Bank borrowings Bank borrowings, as at 31 December 2016, are as follows: ·· Loan of NOK 1.5 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The loan, disbursed in December 2011, has a term of 20 years and is irredeemable for 8 years. ·· Loan of MNOK 1525.3 from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The loan, disbursed in June 2012, has a term of 16 years and is irredeemable for 4.5 years. ·· Loan of NOK 1.0 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The loan, disbursed in November 2015, has a term of 20 years and is irredeemable for 8 years. ·· Loan of MNOK 1899.9 from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The loan, disbursed in April 2016, has a term of 12 years and is irredeemable for 3 years. In addition there are bank borrowings in the subsidiaries operating within real estate. Flesland Eiendom AS, Værnes Eiendom AS, Sola Hotel Eiendom AS, Hotell Østre AS and Flyporten AS have issued a negative pledge clause. According to its Articles of Association the company is not allowed to pledge assets connected to the core business of the group as security. Drawing rights The group has an unused bank credit facility of MNOK 4,000 at a floating interest rate, expiring in 2020. The group can requeste a prolonged term, this require acceptance from all participating banks. The group also has an unused bank overdraft limit of MNOK 800 at a floating interest rate. Commercial papers Avinor AS has in 2016 raised several loans in commercial papers, amounting to MNOK 1,400 as at 31 December 2016. NOTE 15 Other reserves All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2015 -454.8 -35.8 -490.6 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions 489.0 489.0 Tax effect -132.0 -132.0 Fair value change cash flow hedge -2.4 -2.4 Tax effect 0.6 0.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -4.4 -0.9 -5.3 At 31 December 2015 -102.2 -38.5 -140.6 Merger/demerger 27.0 -1.8 25.2 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -324.5 -324.5 Tax effect 81.1 81.1 Fair value change cash flow hedge 38.3 38.3 Tax effect -9.6 -9.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -1.6 -0.1 -1.7 At 31 December 2016 -320.2 -11.7 -331.8 108 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2015 -668.4 -106.2 -774.8 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions 1 040.9 1 040.9 Tax effect -281.0 -281.0 Fair value change cash flow hedge 24.6 24.6 Tax effect -6.6 -6.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.5 0.0 0.5 At 31 December 2015 92.0 -88.2 3.6 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -548.5 -548.5 Tax effect 137.1 137.1 Fair value change cash flow hedge 66.9 66.9 Tax effect -16.9 -16.9 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -4.4 -0.2 -4.6 At 31 December 2016 -323.8 -38.4 -362.4 NOTE 16 Pension obligation All amounts in MNOK The pension schemes are generally funded through payments to benefits are changed in such a way that the present value of the Statens Pensjonskasse (the Norwegian Public Service Pension projected benefits are reduced. Fund, SPK), determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The group has a defined benefit plan. A defined benefit plan is a The pension scheme is not directly funded. The pension paypension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an ments are guaranteed by the Norwegian government (Section 1 employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more of the Pensions Act). Administration of the allocated fund ( fictifactors such as years of service and compensation. tious fund) is simulated as if the funds were placed in long-term government bonds. The pension scheme is not movable in the The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined same way as private pensions schemes and it is assumed that the benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit pension scheme will be continued in SPK. In the simulation it is obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of assumed that the bonds are held to maturity. The pension fund is plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually therefore estimated at nominal value plus the return on the fund. by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined Net pension obligation by discounting the estimated future cash outflow using interest The value of net pension obligations is determined on an actuarial rates of high-quality corporate bonds (or long-term treasury basis using a number of assumptions. These include, among bonds) that are denomonated in the currency in which the beneothers, the discount rate, future salary increases, regulation of fits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to pensions and demographic assumptions about disability and the terms of the related pension liability. mortality experience. The assumptions are based on verifiable market prices and the historical development in the company Changes in assumptions, basic data and the benefits of the penand in the rest of society. Changes in the assumptions will have sion plan which have as an effect an accounting loss or gain will material effect on the estimated pension obligation-/cost. be set off against equity through other comprehensive income in the period they occur. Changes in the the National Insurance Scheme are implemented from 1 January 2011. However, the coordination regulations A change in the benefits which refers to previous periods of earnconnected to SPK have not been established for persons born in ing implies a change in the pension plan which is a cost related 1954 and thereafter. The regulations will be implemented in the to previous periods of earning. A negative cost occurs when the accounts as soon as they are established. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 109 Defined benefit plan within the public sector. The pensions have a guaranteed level of The group is required by law to have a pension plan. The pension gross payment independent of the National Insurance Scheme. plan of the group satisfies these requirements. About 52 per cent of the employees have an ordinary retirement age of 62 or 65 years. The pension plan encompasses pension benefits in accordance with the act relating to the Norwegian Public Service Fund Actuarial loss in 2016 (MNOK 548.5 for the group and MNOK (SPK). The benefits are retirement pension, disability pension 324.5 for the parent) were mainly caused by changes in financial and dependent pension. In addition, the calculations do include assumptions and the change from a static to a dynamic tariff a contractual pension right, which is a tariff-regulated early K2013. retirement scheme from 62 years of age. The tariff K2013 have been used for calculating life and mortality The benefits are coordinated with the National Insurance Scheme expectancy, while the tariff K1963 multiplied by 200% have been and any previous membership periods with service pensions fund used for determination of disability risk. LIFE EXPECTANCY MORTALITY EXPECTANCY DISABILITY EXPECTANCY AGE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 20 81 85 0.02 % 0.01 % 0.11 % 0.17 % 40 82 86 0.06 % 0.03 % 0.26 % 0.52 % 60 84 87 0.43 % 0.29 % 1.41 % 2.40 % 80 89 91 4.30 % 2.95 % IA IA The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Current service cost 199.0 176.9 328.0 387.5 Interest cost 129.1 95.8 198.7 184.9 Return on plan assets -99.2 -68.3 -155.9 -134.0 Contribution from the employees -27.4 -20.7 -44.9 -45.1 Administration fee 4.7 3.6 7.8 8.0 Payroll tax, employers contribution 33.3 29.0 53.6 62.5 Total pension cost (Note 6) 239.5 216.2 387.3 463.8 110 AVINOR AS Pension obligation and plan assets: AVINOR AS 2016 2015 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Pension obligations and plan assets: Change in gross pension obligation: Obligation at 1 January 3 806.9 14.1 3 821.0 4 072.9 11.4 4 084.3 Current service cost 201.4 2.4 203.8 177.9 2.7 180.6 Interest cost 129.1 0.0 129.1 95.8 0.0 95.8 Merger/demerger 936.4 7.7 944.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Actuarial losses/(gains) 245.0 0.0 245.0 -411.4 0.0 -411.4 Benefits paid -160.5 0.0 -160.5 -128.2 0.0 -128.2 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 5 158.3 24.2 5 182.5 3 806.9 14.1 3 821.0 Change in pension funds: Fair value at 1 January 2 865.7 0.0 2 865.7 2 747.5 0.0 2 747.5 Expected return on plan assets 99.2 0.0 99.2 68.3 0.0 68.3 Merger/demerger 698.1 0.0 698.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Employer contributions 257.1 0.0 257.1 161.0 0.0 161.0 Actuarial (losses)/gains -87.7 0.0 -87.7 -74.6 0.0 -74.6 Actuarial (losses)/gains addition of plan assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 91.7 0.0 91.7 Gains on realisation of assets 56.0 0.0 56.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Benefits paid -160.5 0.0 -160.5 -128.2 0.0 -128.2 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 3 727.9 0.0 3 727.9 2 865.7 0.0 2 865.7 Net pension obligation 1 430.4 24.2 1 454.5 941.2 14.1 955.3 Payroll tax, employers contribution 196.2 1.1 197.3 130.0 0.0 130.0 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 1 626.6 25.3 1 651.8 1 071.2 14.1 1 085.3 Actual return on plan assets last year 72.2 72.2 85.8 85.8 Expected employer contribution next year 263.3 263.3 255.4 255.4 Expected payment of benefits next year -162.9 -162.9 -150.1 -150.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 111 AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Pension obligations and plan assets: Change in gross pension obligation: Obligation at 1 January 7 368.2 23.1 7 391.3 7 804.7 19.5 7 824.2 Current service cost 333.7 2.5 336.2 392.7 3.3 396.0 Interest cost 198.9 0.0 198.9 184.9 0.0 184.9 Aquisition 8.4 0.0 8.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Actuarial losses/(gains) 468.4 0.0 468.4 -853.5 0.3 -853.2 Benefits paid -182.1 0.0 -182.1 -160.6 0.0 -160.6 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 8 195.5 25.6 8 221.1 7 368.2 23.1 7 391.3 Change in pension funds: Fair value at 1 January 5 675.8 0.0 5 675.8 5 341.6 0.0 5 341.6 Expected return on plan assets 155.9 0.0 155.9 134.0 0.0 134.0 Employer contributions 291.4 0.0 291.4 302.4 0.0 302.4 Aquisition 8.1 0.0 8.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Actuarial (losses)/gains -61.6 0.0 -61.6 -112.3 0.0 -112.3 Actuarial (losses)/gains addition of plan assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 170.7 0.0 170.7 Gains on realisation of assets 56.0 0.0 56.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Benefits paid -182.1 0.0 -182.1 -160.6 0.0 -160.6 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 5 943.5 0.0 5 943.5 5 675.8 0.0 5 675.8 Net pension obligation 2 251.9 25.6 2 277.5 1 692.4 23.1 1 715.5 Payroll tax, employers contribution. 310.7 0.0 310.7 231.9 0.0 231.9 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2 562.6 25.6 2 588.2 1 924.3 23.1 1 947.4 Actual return on plan assets last year 106.4 106.4 123.9 123.9 Expected employer/employee contribution next year 384.2 384.2 263.8 263.8 Expected payment of benefits next year -184.4 -184.4 -163.0 -163.0 Movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Obligation at 1 January 955.3 1 336.8 1 715.5 2 482.5 Pension cost charged to the income statement 233.4 208.0 379.0 446.4 Employer/employee contribution -261.7 -164.5 -299.2 -310.4 Administration fee 4.7 3.6 7.8 8.0 Merger/demerger 246.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in other comprehensive income 332.7 -428.5 530.4 -911.0 Gains on realisation of assets -56.0 0.0 -56.0 0.0 Liability in the balance sheet at 31 December 1 454.5 955.3 2 277.5 1 715.5 Actuarial (gains)/losses on post-employment benefit obligations Actuarial (gains)/losses 332.7 -428.5 530.4 -911.0 Payroll tax on actuarial (gains)/losses -56.0 0.0 -56.0 0.0 Effect change in payroll tax rate 47.8 -60.4 74.1 -129.9 Total actuarial (gains)/losses on post-employment benefit obligations 324.5 -488.9 548.5 -1 040.9 The calculation of pension cost and net pension obligation are made on the basis of a set of assumptions. The determination of the discount rate to be used is made on the basis of Norwegian covered bond interest rates. The pension obligation's weighted average duration is 24 years. Assumptions regarding future salary and pension increases in addition to official pension benefit adjustments are made on the basis of historical observations for the group. 112 AVINOR AS 2016 2015 Discount rate 2.60 % 2.70 % Future salary increases 2.50 % 2.50 % Future pension increases 1.50 % 1.75 % Early retirement scheme 15.00 % 15.00 % Average turnover rate (under 50 years of age) 3.00 % 3.00 % Average turnover rate (over 50 years of age) 0.20 % 0.20 % Plan assets The determination of premium levels and the calculation of provisions for pension obligations are based on ordinary actuarial principles. Five per cent of the plan assets of Avinor Flysikring AS at yearend 2016 have been simulated invested in The Government Pension Fund Global. PENSION OBLIGATION SENSITIVITIES 2016 2015 CHANGE IN PENSION OBLIGATION AS A RESULT OF ONE PERCENTAGE POINT CHANGES IN WEIGHTED FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS +1 -1 +1 -1 Discount rate -1 361 1 814 -1 188 1 564 Future salary increase 702 -802 640 -735 Pension regulation 750 -843 NOTE 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges All amounts in MNOK PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when: the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. When the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. SEVERANCE PAY Until 31 December 2005 all employees given notice were entitled to severance pay. The obligation is recognised in the financial statement at present value of the defined benefits at the balance sheet date. AVINOR AS EARLY ENVIRONSEVERANCE RETIREMENT MENTAL PAY PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2015 7.3 0.0 105.2 0.2 112.7 Additional provision 2015 0.0 16.6 0.0 0.0 16.6 Reversed 2015 -0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.2 Used in 2015 -1.8 0.0 -8.7 -0.2 -10.7 At 1 January 2016 5.3 16.6 96.6 0.0 118.5 Merger/demerger 0.0 1.4 68.2 0.0 69.6 Additional provision 2016 0.4 30.0 0.0 0.0 30.4 Reversed 2016 0.0 -1.4 0.0 0.0 -1.4 Used in 2016 -1.8 -28.4 -8.5 0.0 -38.7 At 31 December 2016 3.9 18.2 156.3 0.0 178.5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 113 AVINOR GROUP EARLY ENVIRONSEVERANCE RETIREMENT MENTAL PAY PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2015 7.3 15.1 205.3 0.2 227.9 Additional provision 2015 0.0 37.0 0.0 0.0 37.0 Reversed 2015 -0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.2 Used in 2015 -1.8 -7.6 -38.4 -0.2 -48.1 At 1 January 2016 5.3 44.4 166.9 0.0 216.6 Additional provision 2016 0.4 38.5 0.0 1.2 40.1 Reversed 2016 0.0 -1.4 0.0 0.0 -1.4 Used in 2016 -1.8 -43.8 -8.5 -1.0 -55.1 At 31 December 2016 3.9 37.7 158.4 0.2 200.2 The short-term part of provisions for other liabilities and charges are included in other short term liability. See note 3. Severance pay On 4 December 2003, the board of directors approved a substantial restructuring of the group, called Take-off-05. One of the consequences of this decision was a substantial cut in the workforce. Part of the cut was carried out by use of redundancy pay. According to the terms laid down for the establishment of the company, the employees of Avinor AS were entitled to redundancy pay until 31 December 2005. Redundancy pay is covered by the company. The period of time for the right to redundancy pay depends on age and seniority at time of resignation. The provision for redundancy pay is based on expectations about the redundancy pay period based on the above-mentioned rules. Early retirement pay air navigation management The group has entered into individual early retirement pay agreements covering 72 per cent of normal wages in the period 60-62 years. After this period the individuals will be covered by ordinary pension plans. Early retirement pay others This include optional retirement pay in accordance with the group's adjustmentpolicy. Environmental pollution A provison is made for surveys and identification, in addition to costs related to the clean-up of polluted ground (see note 21). NOTE 18 Other short-term liabilities All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Holiday allowance 170.4 135.1 291.7 296.2 Advance from customers 113.7 135.9 136.4 180.9 Wages and social security 55.7 46.7 101.6 118.4 Accruals 1 233.1 369.8 1 293.7 1 017.9 Intra-group liability 2 753.3 2 778.1 0.0 0.0 Other short-term liability 465.5 530.7 478.5 559.1 Total 4 791.7 3 996.3 2 301.9 2 172.5 114 AVINOR AS NOTE 19 Subsidiaries All amounts in MNOK The consolidated financial statement of the group includes the following subsidiaries: TOTAL PROFIT/ HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK EQUITY LOSS DIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.16 2016 Airport Svalbard Lufthavn AS Norway Longyearbyen operations 100 % 104.3 115.5 11.6 Air navigation Avinor Flysikring AS Norway Oslo services 100 % 367.2 702.4 106.5 Avinor Utvikling AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 608.5 1 026.3 13.7 Oslo Lufthavn Tele & Data AS Norway Ullensaker Trade 100 % 6.9 10.2 3.5 Total 1 086.9 1 854.4 135.3 TOTAL PROFIT/ HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK EQUITY LOSS INDIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.16 2016 Flesland Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 71.8 96.2 6.2 Værnes Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 123.0 89.7 -0.1 Sola Hotel Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 69.9 86.6 4.4 Hell Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 24.6 18.3 0.3 Hotell Østre AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 171.2 204.3 25.2 Flyporten AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 61.7 72.4 9.9 Total 522.2 567.5 45.9 Oslo Lufthavn AS merged with Avinor AS, as from 1 January 2016. Svalbard Lufthavn AS demerged from Avinor AS, as from 1 June 2016. The shares in Flesland Eiendom AS, Værnes Eiendom AS, Sola Hotel Eiendom AS og Hell Eiendom AS were transferred from Avinor AS to Avinor Utvikling AS, as from June 2016. Avinors Parkeringsanlegg AS merged with Avinor AS, as from 31 December 2016. At the same time, Hotell Østre Tomteselskap merged with Hotell Østre AS and Flyporten Tomteselskap AS merged with Flyporten AS. NOTE 20 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results All amounts in MNOK SHARE CAPITAL AND PREMIUM RESERVE Ordinary shares are classified as equity. DIVIDEND DISTRUBUTION Dividend distribution to the company's shareholders is recognised as a liability in the group's financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the company's shareholders. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 115 NUMBER OF SHARES FACE VALUE SHARE-CAPITAL Ordinary shares 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 Total 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 The company has paid the following dividend on ordinary shares: 2016 2015 NOK 925.9 per share in 2014 500.0 NOK 925.9 per share in 2015 500.0 Total 500.0 500.0 Proposed dividend for approval in the general assembly (Not presented as a liability at 31 December): 2016 2015 NOK 925.9 per share 500.0 NOK 1018.5 per share 550.0 Total 550.0 500.0 All shares are owned by the Norwegian State, represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication. NOTE 21 Contingencies Norwegian Defence implemented, as well as the authorities' requirements and the A cooperation agreement exists between Norwegian Defence and measures available. Avinor with corresponding local agreements concerning sharing responsibilities and expenses for airports where both parties have Air stations owned by the Defence activities. The Storting has resolved that Bodø's main air station, shall be closed down, while Evenes will be the advanced base for fighter Based on a mandate from the Ministry of Transportation and the planes in the north. The government have decided that Evenes Ministry of Defence a new agreement has been entered into. The shall not be established as an advanced base before 2020. Bodø agreement was approved by the government in February 2011, airport shall function as an advanced base after the close-down of with effect from 1 January 2010. The agreement establishes prinBodø main air station. This will be an intermediate solution until ciples for the basis of allocation of investmentand operational the new fighter planes are operational and have replaced the expenses between the parties. The practical implementation of existing planes. the agreement, including calculation of the cash-flow between the parties, has not been completed. There is therefore uncerAvinor have taken over the responsibility of the operation of tainty attached to the economic consequences as from 2010. Bodø airport from 1 August 2016. The takeover will have financial consequences for Avinor with regard to future investments in The involved parties have been in contact regarding the local property, plant and equipment and running operating expenses. agreements, without reaching an understanding. The Norwegian The cost picture could also be influenced by a prospective Defence has formally broken the negotiations and issued points construction of a new airport in Bodø, which may be proposed of claim for settlement. in the new National Transport Plan. The plan will be presented during spring 2017. The external environment Environmentally hazardous additives in fire extinguishing The Storting has resolved on 15 November 2016 that the military foam which have spread to the natural environment have activities on Andøya air station shall be closed down of when the been detected at several airports. Risk assessments have been P-3 Orion surveillance planes have been phased out and a new conducted into the potential harm to persons and the external main air base for surveillance/advanced base for fighter planes environment from these pollutants. Work is currently being shall be established at Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes. conducted to clarify the scope of the measures that will need to be implemented. The economic consequences of this depend This will involve changes in the operational responsibilities at on the extent of the localities that require measures to be Andøya and at Bardufoss. 116 AVINOR AS NOTE 22 Commitments All amounts in MNOK The parent company and the group have contracted for capital expenditure not yet incurred at the end of the reporting period as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Property, plant and equipment 522.5 929.1 672.4 2 131.7 Total 522.5 929.1 672.4 2 131.7 NOTE 23 Related-party transactions All amounts in MNOK The Ministry of Transport and Communication As the sole owner of Avinor AS the Norwegian State represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication (SD) is a related party. SD has the principal authority regarding the structure of the airport network and the traffic charges. Any closing down of an airport or other material changes in the airport structure shall be presented to SD. The final decision is made by the Storting. The charges regulation which decides the setting of air traffic charges shall be sanctioned by SD. Group companies Outstanding accounts between companies in the group: AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 OSLO SVALBARD AVINOR AVINOR LUFTHAVN FLESLAND VÆRNES LUFTHAVN AS FLYSIKRING AS UTVIKLING AS TELE & DATA AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 140.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Intra-group receivables 6.5 196.1 0.0 4.3 0.3 0.3 Total 6.5 196.1 0.0 4.3 0.3 0.3 Other short-term intra-group liability 30.9 755.2 1 510.7 0.0 74.4 55.4 Total 30.9 755.2 1 510.7 0.0 74.4 55.4 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONT. SOLA HOTEL HELL HOTELL EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 140.0 Intra-group receivables 0.2 0.0 17.5 6.3 231.5 Total 0.2 0.0 17.5 6.3 371.5 Other short-term intra-group liability 76.0 16.7 183.7 50.3 2 753.3 Total 76.0 16.7 183.7 50.3 2 753.3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 117 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 AVINORS AVINOR OSLO PARKERINGSFLESLAND VÆRNES SOLA HOTEL HELL FLYSIKRING AS LUFTHAVN AS SELSKAP AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 0.0 7 571.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Intra-group receivables 95.6 25.1 25.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total 95.6 7 596.4 25.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other short-term intra-group liability 574.1 147.9 120.4 80.6 55.8 81.2 16.7 Total 574.1 147.9 120.4 80.6 55.8 81.2 16.7 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONT. HOTELL FLYPORTEN OSLO AVINOR HOTELL ØSTRE TOMTETOMTELUFTHAVN UTVIKLING AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS SELSKAP AS SELSKAP AS TELE & DATA AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7 571.3 Intra-group receivables -8.5 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 140.2 Total -8.5 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 7 711.5 Other short-term intra-group liability 1488.2 23.5 8.2 146.2 35.3 0.0 2 778.1 Total 1 488.2 23.5 8.2 146.2 35.3 0.0 2 778.1 NOTE 24 Events after the reporting period New information after the reporting period about conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period is recognised in the financial statement. Events after the reporting period affecting the group's future financial position are disclosed if material. 118 AVINOR AS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CEO We confirm, to the best of our knowledge that the financial statements for the period 1 January to 31 December 2016 have been prepared in accordance with current applicable accounting standards, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the entity and the group taken as a whole. We also confirm that the Board of Directors' Report includes a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the entity and the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the entity and the group. Oslo, 29 March 2017 Board of Directors of Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Tone M. Lindberg Eli Skrøvset Chairman Vice-chairman Linda Bernander Silseth Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Per Erik Nordsveen Heidi Anette Sørum Grete Ovnerud Dag Falk-Petersen CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 119 120 AVINOR AS Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 387 MVA Ernst & Young AS Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 Fax: +47 24 00 24 01 Dronning Eufemias gate 6, NO-0191 Oslo www.ey.no Postboks 1156 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo Medlemmer av den norske revisorforening INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Avinor AS Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Avinor AS, which comprise the financial statements for the parent company and the Group. The financial statements for the parent company and the Group comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2016, the statements of comprehensive income, income statement, the statements of cash flows and changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements of Avinor AS have been prepared in accordance with laws and regulations and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2016 and their financial performance for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Norway, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities as required by law and regulations. We have also complied with our other ethical obligations in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. Pensions The parent company and the group have significant retirement benefit obligations in the balance sheets. As of December 31, 2016 the parent company and the group have a gross pension obligation of NOK 5 183 millions and NOK 8 221 millions, respectively. The valuation of the pension obligations requires significant level of judgement and technical expertise, including the use of actuarial experts for calculating the obligations. Small changes in a number of the key assumptions used to value the obligations, including salary increases, inflation, discount rate and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of the obligations. Consequently, pension is a key audit matter. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 121 Our audit of the parent company’s and the Group’s accounting for pensions include assessments of key assumptions used in the calculation of the obligations, test procedures of the input and assessment of the external experts used for calculation of the obligations. In particular we: ► Agreed that assumptions on inflation rate, discount rate and mortality are based on external and publicly available data from acknowledged organizations ► Compared the assumptions for salary increases against the company's historical trend and expected future outlook ► Evaluated changes in the population used when calculating the obligation ► Assessed the competence and objectivity of the Group's external actuary ► Verified that the accounting is in accordance with the applicable framework for financial reporting (IAS 19) We refer to note 16 in the financial statement for additional information. Other information Other information consists of the information included in the Company’s annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Board and CEO (management) is responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information, and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of management for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, and for such internal control as management determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with law, regulations and generally accepted auditing principles in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: Independent auditor's report Avinor AS 122 AVINOR AS ► identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ► obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control; ► evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; ► conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern; ► evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. ► obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report concerning the financial statements and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility, and the going concern assumption, and proposal for the allocation of the result is consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. Independent auditor's report Avinor AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 123 Opinion on registration and documentation Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, it is our opinion that management have fulfilled their duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information is properly recorded and documented as required by law and bookkeeping standards and practices accepted in Norway. Oslo, 29 March 2017 ERNST & YOUNG AS Jan Wellum Svensen State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) Independent auditor's report Avinor AS 124 AVINOR AS MORE ABOUT AVINOR Quarterly reports and annual reports Avinor publishes reports annually and quarterly. The quarterly reports present key figures and accounts, as well as a brief statement on finances. Avinor’s quarterly and annual reports are available via Avinor’s website. The Article 10 plan Article 10 of Avinor’s Articles of Association states that the Board must prepare a report each year on the company’s overall activities, including plans for the future, for the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This document is available to the public and is called the Article 10 plan. At least every four years – once every parliamentary term – Avinor’s Article 10 plan forms the basis for a report on Avinor’s operations to Norway’s parliament, the Storting. Avinor’s contribution to the National Transport Plan The Norwegian National Transport Plan (NTP) presents the Norwegian government’s transport policy. It forms the basis of comprehensive political assessments, efficient use of policy instruments and strengthened interaction between the various modes of transport. Aviation infrastructure is also addressed in the report. About a year before the NTP is presented to the Norwegian Parliament, Avinor and the transport agencies jointly present their underlying document to the government. The NTP is considered by the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications, which presents its recommendations to the Norwegian Parliament. This is available from www.ntp.dep.no. Photo: Bjørn Erik Larsen, Espen Gees, Espen Solli, Even Stangeby, Tommy Normann, Øyvind Markussen, Jarle Nyttingnes, Gaute Bruvik/Avinor David Charles Peacock/Norwegian, Thomas Brun/NTB, Jannecke Sanne Normann COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 125 Design and production: Artbox AS Avinor is responsible for the 46 state-owned airports and air navigation services for civilian and military aviation in Norway. This network links Norway together and links Norway to the world. Avinor is a driving force in environmental work in aviation and a driving force to reduce the combined greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation. The company has a leading role in the work on developing and delivering biofuel for aircraft. Every year Avinor contributes to safe and efficient travel for around 50 million airline passengers. Around half travel to and from Oslo Airport. More than 3,000 employees are responsible for planning, developing and operating airports and air navigation services. Avinor is funded by aviation fees and commercial sales at the airports. AVINOR AS Org.No. 985 198 292 Dronning Eufemias gate 6 0191 Oslo, Norway P.O.Box 150 2061 Gardermoen avinor.no
