Communication on Progress 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle# 1: The business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle# 2: The business should make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses HUMAN ipl2 KCE is dedicated and committed to upholding the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other international, regional and/or local laws that apply to KCE, such as the Thai Labour Standards: Corporate Social Responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010), the Labour Protection Act, B.E. 2541 (1998) and its amendments, the Labour Relations Act, B.E. 2518 (1975) and its amendments, the Social Security Act, as well as the Workmen Compensation Insurance Act. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • To ensure that KCE is constantly improving its commitments to the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, KCE has continually reviewed and revised its policies and strategies to support human rights. Top Management shall define the policy on social and labor accountability by a written document and formal declaration, expressing the intention to confirm the requirement of human rights, employment conditions and working condition standards. • KCE appointed an Employee & Welfare Committee comprised of employer and employee representatives to be responsible for carrying out activities related to the application to the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards. • KCE shall conduct appropriate measures related to occupational safety and health covering all areas and types of work, which may be harmful to worker’s health and safety, in accordance with laws and occupational safety and health standards. In order to prevent harm and to decease risk factors, KCE arranges a safe working environment and provides the following for its workers: a) An opportunity to participate in the management of occupational safety and health. b) An opportunity to obtain access to information concerning hazards that may arise from the working process or working environment. 1 c) Knowledge and awareness of rules, regulations, code of practice or guidelines concerning occupational safety and health. d) Training related to occupational safety and health focusing on issues that are newly assigned or re-assigned for the performance of work. e) Safety equipment in accordance with safety standards and suitable for working conditions of each worker. • KCE shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of employment, payment of wages and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunities for training and development, promotion, termination of employment or retirement, and so on, due to national extraction, race, religion, language, age, sex, marital status, personal attitude on gender or sexual orientation, invalidity, HIV/AIDS, AIDS patients, trade union membership, employee committee, political affiliation or personal opinion. • KCE ensures that corporate social responsibility, of which human rights is the core component, being an integral part of the company’s strategy and that KCE will continue to operate its business in responsible manner for the community. • KCE shall provide for and maintain procedures to evaluate and select suppliers or subcontractors who conform to the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards in regard to human rights. ACTIONS Phase 1 of the new KCE plant at Latkrabang started operations in the beginning of 2015 and Phase 2 implemented in the 3Q15, and completed the transfer of operations from the old plant in the middle of 4Q15. In 2016, Phase 1 & 2 of the new plant ramped up its capacity to the highest utilization rate. Various measures related to occupational safety and health covering all areas and types of work, which may be harmful to worker’s health and safety, were increasingly put in place at the new plant facilities, in accordance with laws and occupational safety and health standards. During 2016, the Company participated in the safety, occupational health and environmental workplace activities as follows: 1. Reported a 94.54% achievement rate in compliance with the safety plan of 2016. 2. The Safety Unit performed the following activities: • An emergency drill for natural gas leakage • An emergency drill for LPG leakage • An emergency drill for waste water rate exceeding the standard ratio • An emergency drill for X-ray leakage • An emergency drill for chemical substance leakage 2 • An annual emergency fire drill and evacuation procedure, performed twice in 2016 • A safety week exhibition • An annual medical examination • An assessment regarding safety environment in the workplace During 2016, the Company conducted Customer Satisfaction surveys in various categories, such as technical area, quality, on-time delivery, problem responsiveness, logistics, accuracy of the document and communication. The results of which are satisfactory (in the level of 85%-100%.) Many customers conducted the plant audit to qualify the new factory, and the results were in the level of 82% 97%, or 89% at the average, this considered as the new plant was qualified for production. KCE established a Committee for the Thai Labour Standard, and appointed Employee representative, Management representative and an internal assessor of the operations of the Labour Standard. (HR announcement # 049/2016 052/2016 dated August 15, 2016). The main responsibility is to enforce the regulation of the Thai Labour Standard in practice, develop a working plan, monitor and report achievements in order to comply with Labour standards. KCE appointed the Emergency Response Team (ERT) for each shift, 15 persons per shift. (HR announcement # HR025/2016 dated March 9, 2016), to be ready for the protection and/or stop any serious emergency event. KCE elected a Committee for the Safety, Health and Working Environment (HR announcement # 030/2015 dated May 25, 2015), effective from May 25, 2015, to May 24, 2017. The main responsibility is to establish a safety policy, KCE appointed the safety officers at all levels: professional, supervisor and management level (HR announcement # HR 009/2016, HR 026/2016, HR 033/2016, HR 047/2016 and HR 075/2016) The Company’s policies and objectives are delivered through “continuous training,” including occupational safety and health, technical and professional education, specific knowledge and skills training, and basic training courses to all employees as appropriate for their job and career path. (See Appendix 2). On March 12, 2016, KCE together with Chalongkrung Metropolitan Police Station conducted a seminar regarding the Community Sufficiency Economy for 45 persons from the surrounding community. On November 9, 2016, the Company signed a Memorandum of the academic cooperation with the Engineering Faculty of King Mongkut's Institute of Technology LadKrabang, to create cooperation in academic purpose, such as to provide training for students or to participate in the Co-operative education project. From the training, students could develop knowledge and skills, by learning from on 3 the job training and from knowledge transfer from the actual situations. It is expected that students will gain the required knowledge that is truly needed by the labor market or the enterprise. On August 18, 2016, the Mahidol Wittayanusorn School (Public organization), Amphoe Phutta Monthon, Nakhon Pathorm Province, comprising School Teachers and 48 students of Mathayom level 4-6, who is talented in Mathematics and Science, visited KCE to learn the technology of PCB production at LatKrabang factory. The Company provided training for 5 students from Chitralada Vocational School so that students gain knowledge and skills from experienced persons, in line with the initiative of HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, the School administer, during July 1 August 30, 2016. In 2016, there were another 10 students from various institutes, participated in other training programs to develop various professional skills in the Company. On December 8, 2016, the Company's employees and managements donated necessary consumer goods to help people that was impacted by the flood in the South. KCE has continued its commitments to CSR activities (See Appendix 3) Activity 1: The Eggs and Chickens for Kids project, donation of teaching aids, sport equipment, consumer goods, and provided lunch, at MongLuang School, Tambon Kong Khaek, Amphoe Mae Chaem, Chiang Mai province Activity 2: Donation to support the repair and maintenance of a building for psychiatric patients of the Galya Rajanagarindra Institute, the Department of Mental Health, Phuttamonthon 4 Road, Taveewattana District, Bangkok Activity 3: Offering lunch, recreation activities and donating goods, at Ban Banglamung Social Welfare Development Center for the Elderly, Chonburi province Activity 4: Other projects: 1) Group relation, at Bonanza Resort, Khao Yai, Nakorn Ratchasima Province 2) Activity for Flood relief in the South, Amphoe Cha-uat, Nakhon Si Thammarat province 3) Offering Thian Phansa and Alms to the monks on the Buddhist Lent Day, at Wat Sichanpradit, Samut Prakan Province 4) Training project for the Compost fertilizer from the Water Hyacinth, Ayutthaya Province 5) The Reforestation Promotion Project, at Ban NaPor Community, Loei Province in accordance with H.R.H. Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn 6) Mangrove planting at the Bangpu Nature Education Centre, Bangpu Recreation Center 4 PERFORMANCE o No complaints from employees were filed with the Ministry of Labour during 2016. o KCE was awarded an “Excellent Establishment on Safety, Health and Working Environment” certificate by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, in 2010-2016. o In 2016, the Company was awarded the TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion Level, Initiative Phase for the achievement of the requirements of Thai Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, which is valid from August 15, 2016, to August 14, 2019. o In 2016, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2016 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued date August 17, 2016. o The Human Resource & Organization Development Department has continually arranged various training programs for employees throughout the year, resulting in an increase in the total number of training hours and the number of multi-skilled operators: 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total number of training hours 23.94 23.75 30.14 74.06 73.50 % of multi-skilled operators 60.00% 64.44% 69.26% 69.45% 75.22% o Assessment regarding Safety environment in the workplace Number of check point Total Passed Pollution from Chimney 45 45 Chemical level 37 36 Noise Level 15 14 Lighting Level 87 87 Heat Level 12 12 o Accident Statistics in 2013-2016 Type 2013 2014 2015* 2016 First aid Times 28 25 36 13 Lost days ≤ 3 days Times 20 24 20 16 Lost days > 3 days Times 9 9 11 11 Total number of lost days Days 165 147 209 245 Incident Frequency Rate (IFR) 10.84 10.91 13.74 5.63 Incident Severity Rate (ISR) 31.47 27.66 42.96 34.47 Note: *The statistics of the new plant 5 LABOUR Principle # 3: The business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle # 4: The business should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. BOUR Principle # 5: The business should effect the abolition of child labor. Principle # 6: The business should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Thai Labour Standards: Corporate Social Responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010) is written within the provisional scope of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, provisions of labor laws concerning labor protection, occupational safety, health and environment, labor welfare, and labor relations. Moreover, related conventions of the International Labour Organization and of the United Nations are also brought into account. KCE recognizes that employees are our greatest asset. To ensure that we are able to recruit, hire, and retain the talented individuals in our organization, we strive to assist all of our employees in maintaining a balanced work life and to provide flexibility to employees on an individual basis. • KCE respects the right of a worker to establish or become a member of a trade union or other committees in the company, and the right of the worker to bargain collectively without imposing obstacles or any kind of sanction on such activities. • KCE shall not engage in or support the use of forced and compulsory labor in any form. • KCE shall not hire or give support to hire a young worker under the age of 15. • KCE shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of hiring, employment, payment of wage and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunity for training and development, promotion, termination of employment or retirement. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • Union-neutral policy: An employee representative will not be subjected to discrimination, displacement or dismissal, or other illegal actions. • The Company’s management provides facilities to the Union or employees’ representative in regard to carrying out their functions: collect annual union member fees via payroll deduction 6 time-off with pay for union activities: union committee meeting, Union Annual General Meeting (AGM) arrange for a meeting venue outside the company for the Union’s AGM provide partial financial support for union activities allow union activities during regular working hours, as requested Provide a bulletin board to post union notices • HR administration policy addressing the issues of human rights: HR policy takes into account the Company’s strategy and conforms to the business ethics and the equitable treatment of employees. The HR policy ensures clear, transparent and fair procedures. The Company will recruit and hire a person who is suitable for the job based on skills and experience and other qualifications as required. The Company will pay wages and remuneration according to the Company’s pay structure, which is based on job responsibility, economics, and the wage rate of the current market. The Company supports HR development as well as self-development so that employees are knowledgeable and continually increase their efficiency in carrying out their job duties. • There is no requirement that workers lodge a financial deposit with the Company. • KCE recognizes the importance of the workforce and prohibits any form of forced or compulsory labor. Workers in debt bondage or in other forms of forced labor are not engaged and, where found, removed. • The Company’s policy for pregnant employees is that they are prohibited to work in situations deemed detrimental to their condition, health and safety for women, and prohibited from working during the hours of 22.00 – 6.00, from working overtime and working on holidays so that they may take care of their health. • The minimum wage age provision of Thai Labour law is15 years. However, KCE prohibits hiring employees under the age of 18 years. • In the recruitment process, an adequate verification method for age is employed to ensure the validity of the applicant’s age. • KCE seeks to disseminate to staff, among other relevant information, applicable laws and regulations, and international regulations ratified by the country for the eradication of child labor and current debates about these issues. • Grievance procedures regarding discrimination, where found. • KCE offers equal employment opportunities for all. The persons we recruit and promotions are based on merit and suitability. 7 • KCE has an annual performance and career development review process which provides all employees with the opportunity to receive regular reviews, regardless of job, grade, gender, age or ethnic origin. • The recruitment and selection process for employment is based on a policy of non-discrimination and guidelines of Thai Labor Standard. • All employees are awarded equal opportunities to develop knowledge, skill and competence that are relevant to their job. KCE started to conduct a training needs analysis for specific roles within the organization. • The recruitment and the selection process of employees of KCE are based on a policy of nondiscrimination and the guideline of Thai Labour Standards • Salary increases for employees depend on performance and added value of an employee’s work. All employees are accorded equal opportunity to develop their knowledge, skill and competence as relevant to their job. • We seek to eradicate discrimination, increase cross-cultural understanding and eliminate workplace violence and harassment. In addition to all the above, KCE organizes in-service training such as the learning of languages, first-aid training, rules of protocol, occupational course training, personnel development courses, team work and regular social events, such as New Year parties, walk rallies, and other sport activities. • KCE’s employees are not discriminated against because of gender, race, origin, background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age. ACTIONS Board of Directors Meeting No. 5/2016 held on May 10, 2016, passed a resolution to approve an Employee Joint Investment Program of KCE Electronics Public Company Limited No. 1 ( EJIP ). The EJIP serves as another means of compensation for employees, executives of the Company and subsidiaries, to promote a sense of ownership, to serve as a work incentive, and to encourage personnel to make a long-term commitment to the Company. Qualified employees can apply to participate in the project on a voluntary basis. Each month, the Company will deduct a rate of 4% to 20% of the basic salary of each employee who joins the EJIP, and the Company will contribute 100% of such deducted amount. However, EJIP participants must strictly comply with a silent period. The Company has already proposed the terms and conditions of the EJIP to the SEC and received approval. The company appointed an EJIP Committee, HR Announcement # 037, dated June 8, 2016. The main responsibility is to establish the EJIP project and qualifications to apply for the participation, and monitor the operations of the project. 8 The Company changed the working schedule for pregnant employees, from working in rotated shift to regular office hours , HR Announcement # 013, dated January 23, 2016. During 2016, the union cooperated with the Company’s management in various activities, as follows: 2016 annual collective bargaining as a forum to improve employment terms and other benefits and welfare Regular meetings Participation in the Company’s activities as well as CSR activities KCE appointed an Employee Committee and Welfare Committee on January 11, 2012, (HR announcement #005/2555). The committee is composed of six representatives from employees and five representatives from the employer. The committee is responsible for proposing provisions to ensure that employees have access to adequate welfare, consider grievances from employees and resolve any conflicts, if any. In 2016, there were four meetings in which the following topics were discussed: The general business situation KPI evaluations Company recreational activities Reward for the Good attendance and the Long-service award of 10, 20, 30 years Schooling scholarships for children of employee Welfare for medical expense for the employee's family members Food service in the canteen KCE's policy for transferring subcontracted worker to KCE's permanent operator, and promotion of daily worker to monthly worker Arrangement of trade union activities Vacation entitlement Annual working calendar Employee uniforms General disciplinary procedures Promotion procedures and criteria used Safety equipment 5-S activities and the Big cleaning day Miscellaneous issues: bus service, canteen, car parking, drinking water, the system for granting employee's leave 9 On February 8, 2016, collective bargaining was conducted to address issues related to working conditions and employee welfare. Negotiations reached an agreement for both parties. KCE has always been supportive of the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Prior to employment, it is our policy to be transparent about all working terms and conditions. KCE’s employee policies are specified within employment contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual working conditions and their rights, and thus all employees are aware of their existence and must agree before signing an employment contract. Regularly review timecard, payroll and production records in respect of incorrect record keeping, incorrect or non-payment of wages and excessive overtime hours and verify their accuracy through worker interviews. KCE’s employee manual defines work hours. The overtime procedure provides employees a form to sign if he/she agrees to render more than eight hours of duty. Those on overtime are given a premium pay rate according to Thai Labour law, travel allowance from and to their home and a meal allowance. KCE has a child labor employee policy for suppliers and subcontractors to follow. In its contracts with suppliers, the Company requires that suppliers declare that they do not employ child labor. An Employee Satisfaction Survey was conducted for 2016, the result of which was summarized at an average of 64% (a range of min-max 57-68%), an increase from 62% in 2015 and 61% in 2014, representing a high level of satisfaction. The highest score category was for an intrinsic aspects of the job and a Social aspects of the job, and the lowest score category was for an opportunity for advancement and benefits. The Company continually communicates with employees in order to obtain feedback, assess their needs and problems through various channels; reports from supervisors, employee satisfaction surveys, grievances by employees via personal consultation, telephone, intranet, e-mail or comment box and etc. In 2015, the Talent Management program was implemented. It is mainly used for personnel development planning, which is already incorporated in the SAP system. The program is based on the principle of competency management, which can help identify and develop a suitable career development plan for individual personnel, including a succession plan for key positions. KCE treats subcontracted labor fairly based on the same standard as used with the Company’s own staff in terms of human rights, competency development, training, safety & health and working environment, incentive pay, etc. During 2016, a number of daily-subcontracted workers continued to change to the monthly-workers. Subcontracted labor is also entitled to a merit increase and an annual bonus from the 10 Company. This has caused a major change in the workforce structure; and the turnover rate was reduced from 5.7% to 1.7%. Subcontracted labor headcount by type: 2014 2015 2016 Daily 1,043 772 871 Monthly 496 (33%) 796 (50%) 767 (47%) Total 1,539 1,568 1,638 persons Human Resources Department develop a road map for 2016-2018 : Challenge: Support business requirement Customer needs Expansion of KCE's business Foundation of HR system Increase HR service level HR develop the Master Training plan for 2017 An Assessment Center was set up to track HR service via on line, regarding : 1) Recruitment 2) Training 3) Employee relation 4) Employee self service (KPI, OT, Leave record, EPay slip ...) PERFORMANCE o KCE received accreditation from the Thai Labour Standard project of the Ministry of Labour in 2010.The Company received TLS 8001-2010 certification (Thai Labour Standard: Corporate Social Responsibility)on February 8, 2013, by having met the requirements of the Department of Labour, Protection and Welfare of the Ministry of Labour. The certification is valid until February 7, 2016. o In 2016, the Company was awarded the TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion Level, Initiative Phase for the achievement of the requirements of Thai Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, which is valid from August 15, 2016, to August 14, 2019. o The Company received the “Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare” award from the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare on August 20, 2014. o In 2015, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2015 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued July 17, 2015. 11 o In 2016, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2016 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued date August 17, 2016. o 60% of the Company’s employees are represented by the union. o List of established Associations: • Labour Union • Employee and Welfare Committee • Safety, Health and Working Environment Committee • 5S Team • Thai Labour Standard Committee • Educational Fund for Employees’ Children Committee • KPI Committee • Environment Management Representative (EMR) • EJIP Committee o In 2016, there were no conflicts between employees and the Company. o All employees received salary above the stipulated minimum wage. o KCE does not employ child labor, and all employees are over 18 years old. o KCE’s risk management demonstrates that there are no current or planned business activities in which child labor is or is likely to be a factor. We have appropriate systems in place to ensure that we do not employ child labor. o We have enhanced our ability to identify opportunities to influence others to abolish child labor and are considering further embedding of this within our existing risk management system. o Neither employees nor the union filed a case regarding unfair treatment against the Company with the Ministry of Labour in accordance with Labour Relations Act B.E. 2518 (1975). o Employee complaints averaged less than 1% per year. o In 2016, KCE employed 968 employees. All employees were above18 years of age, and there were no employees between the ages of 15-18. Age 18+ yrs. Age 15-18 yrs. Handicap Men Woman Men Woman Men Woman 2013 418 387 None None 4 1 2014 438 400 None None 3 2 2015 450 388 None None 4 4 2016 525 443 None None 6 3 12 ENVIRONMENT Principle #7: The business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle # 8: The business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. BOUR Principle # 9: The business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KCE recognizes the importance of being a socially and environmentally conscious company. KCE is committed to supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, as well as encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KCE demonstrates our commitment through a strong set of policies and objectives that shape the scope of the business and the way that it deals with clients and suppliers.8 POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • KCE is committed to the establishment of an Environment Management System by complying with the Company’s environment management policy, as follows: To meet all legal requirements as well as contribute to the improvement of environmental issues. Reduce waste materials. An effective and efficient utilization of natural resources. Continuous assessment and evaluation of the environment management system; review objectives, and targets to ensure the effectiveness of the system. Promote and develop staff awareness and responsibility to the environment through communication, provision of relevant information and cooperation among staff, suppliers, customers, government agencies, the private sector and the general public. • KCE applies a precautionary principle and seeks to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental impact assessments and reviews are carried out regularly in accordance with international standards and industry requirements. • KCE aims at collaborating with stakeholders for the protection of environmental quality and values by using every effort in the utilization of energy and natural resources for a sustainable life and environment, working for the development and implementation of environmentally friendly and clean technology and 13 voluntarily adopting environmental management systems and environmental standards. In addition, the Company collaborates and exchanges information with local, national and international environmental organizations to that end. • KCE adheres strictly to environmental law and other regulatory requirements, including concerned environmental directives such as RoHs, WEEE, and REACH. • KCE provides an ongoing environmental induction training and awareness program to provide employees with an insight into our environmental efforts at both the operational and office levels. • The Company continuously strives to improve our environmental performance by: promoting environmental awareness integrating environmental consideration into the business process developing and applying sustainable processes and products reducing the use of resources and endeavoring to prevent pollution monitoring and evaluating environmental performance throughout the entire supply chain engaging in dialogue with stakeholders and partnerships, and providing performance reports complying with environmental legislation and relevant requirements • KCE started to reduce paper consumption and encourage its employees to use alternative products such as recycled paper and to avoid unnecessary expense. KCE encouraged staff to correspond and communicate via electronic mail to minimize paper usage. • Energy and natural resources are utilized effectively and efficiently. The Company has established a waste water treatment plant and an air emission prevention system to treat waste water and air before discharge. • KCE is committed to contributing to the development of public policy and to the initiatives of businesses, government agencies, international programs and non-government organizations that will enhance environmental awareness and protection through the public release of selected research findings. • KCE is dedicated to creating more environmental friendly products; to produce environmentally safe PCB products, and to work with our customers and raw material suppliers to produce environmental friendly products such as lead-free and halogen-free products, as well as to use environmental friendly packaging materials such as bubble sheets instead of plastic foam. ACTIONS In 2016, KCE performed two internal audits, conducted two management reviews, and satisfied a surveillance audit performed by SGS (Thailand) for ISO 16949:2009. 14 The Company received ISO 14001: 2004 certification (October 14, 2015 March 28, 2017), which is the standard for environmental management. An audit is continually conducted by SGS (Thailand) to ensure that the Company complies with the policy and strictly operates according to environmental regulations. In 2016, 2 audits were performed, in February and in September. Established environmental plans for 2016, as follows: • Reduce electricity consumption usage: Target: > 5.0% Results: 9.7% • Reduce water usage: Target: > 30.0% Results: 59.7% The Company began operating a new plant to expand capacity in order to accommodate growth in customer orders. The new plant was designed based on the Green Building concept to be more resource friendly and efficient in accordance with evaluation criteria of the US Leadership in Energy & Environment Design Standard (LEED) by incorporating the following • Waste water treatment technology to reduce water usage , using a Reverse Osmosis (RO) system to treat wastewater from production to recycling. • 24-hour use of LED lighting in production areas to reduce electricity usage. • A fire sprinkler system in line with the US National Fire Protection Association Standard (NFPA). • A fire suppression system for specific areas such as electrical rooms that does not utilize ozone-depleting substances. • Full wastewater treatment in accordance with IEAT regulations. • A high efficiency chiller with an Atmosphere Impact Index according to LEED (Green Building Design and Construction). • VSD (variable speed drives) installed on pumps and AHUs. • A building management system is provided to monitor and control all energy consumption equipment in order to maximize efficiency during operations. • A Chiller Plant Manager monitors and operates chillers and pumps to ensure they operate at the highest efficiency. • A sponge Ball-Cleaning system is utilized to clean the condenser tubes of chillers to enhance system performance. 15 • Generators are provided to back up life safety equipment. In terms of environmental operation, the Company has achieved the objectives specified by the legal rules and regulations as well as the environmental management system. In 2016, the Company arranged several activities for employees to participate in with the aim to promote and encourage environmental safety in accordance with ISO 14001 practices, as follows: • Promoted the Waste Separation Project; General waste, Recycled waste and Dangerous waste. The result was a better separation of the waste. • Promote energy saving in the office area by encouraging all departments to adjust their behavior in order to reduce electricity consumption. • Promote water consumption saving in the production area. The result was satisfactory. • Monitored the environmental management systems by a newly appointed committee for the Group. • Monitored waste water quality after the treatment by the Company on a daily basis,; Copper content must < 2 ppm and PH level must be between 5.5 -9.0. • Arranged 2016 Environmental activities in the Safety week event in December • Using of environment-friendly raw materials, by controlling the use of prohibited chemicals in the raw materials, which is in compliance to the regulations of RoHS (Directive 2011/65/EU), Packaging Directive (Directive 94/62/EC) End-of-Live Vehicle (Directive 2000/53/EC), REACH and Substance of Very High Concern (SVHC) (Directive 1907/2006/EC) and Global Automotive Declarable Substance List (GASL) and implemented IMDS (International Materials Data System). • PCBs that the Company produced is an environment-friendly product. This was certified by a third party certified laboratory, and being recertified every year. • The Reforestation Promotion Project, at Ban NaPor Community, Loei Province in accordance with H.R.H. Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, May 7-8, 2016 The Company took part in the conservation and restoration of the forest area upstream with the aim to help maintain the environment and upgrade the quality of life of the people in the community. The project advocates decreasing monoculture planting and adopting mixed planting in accordance with the philosophy of the Sufficiency Economy of His Majesty the King Bhumibol Adulyadej. The project is also in line with the initiative of HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn to provide guidelines about ways to improve forest communities’ livelihoods. The Company encouraged people in the community to build a check dam and engage in reforestation to improve the fertility of the forest and upstream area, reduce vulnerability to drought, and to stop the decrease of forest area. 16 • Mangrove planting at the Bangpu Nature Education Centre, Bangpu Recreation Center, August 19, 2016 The Company arranged the activity with the community for the nature conservation and mangrove planting, at the Bangpu Nature Education Centre, Bangpu Recreation Center, to promote unity among the working groups in the Industrial Estate community and to encourage employees to jointly participate in the mangrove planting with the community. • Reduction of paper usage, including paper for copying, and encouraging the use of recycled paper. The team also seeks cooperation from all departments in changing their behavior or adjusting their work patterns. The result was satisfactory. • Promote energy saving in office areas by encouraging all departments to change their behavior in order to reduce electricity consumption. Promoted safety and environment awareness through fun activities during the Safety Week event. In 2016, the Company had no social or environmental legal disputes. PERFORMANCE o KCE was granted recertification of ISO 14001:2004. o KCE passed the surveillance audit of ISO 16949:2009. o In terms of environmental operation, the Company achieved the objectives specified by the legal rules and regulations as well as the environmental management system. o KCE was awarded the following: ISO/TS 16949:2009 Edition 3 (September 23, 2016 September 14, 2018), Certificate of Quality Management System of Technical Specification for Automatic Productive and Relevant Service Part (certified since July 18, 2003). This certification is extended to all KCE's Sales and Customer service office worldwide. ISO 14001: 2004, valid from October 14, 2015 – March 28, 2017 (certified since March 28, 2002), certified by UKAS and NAC in regard to the Environmental Management System and Quality Management System. ISO 9001:2008 (October 14, 2015 September 14, 2018), certified by UKAS o The Company was certified by the Green Industry , the Ministry of Industry, that the Company is rated Green industry-Level 3) in the Green system, as the Company has systematically manage the environment, monitor and assess the outcome and continuously improve the results, issued by April 3, 2015 April 2, 2018. 17 Environmental Performance in 2016 2016 Actual measurement Jan Jun Jul Dec Per Law Air quality from chimneys CO Emission (ppm) 14.56 1.58 690 No2 Emission (ppm) 30.50 35.00 200 Particulate (mg/Nm3) 4.66 1.50 400 Noise quality Average noise level 8 hrs. 83.44 90 Maximum noise level 122.2 140 Quantity of industrial waste Properly Buried or Non-toxic industrial waste (per year) 2,700 Tons/ year Recycled Managed by Toxic industrial waste (per year) 7,800 Tons/ Year licensed company ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle# 10: The business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. KCE manages its business with honesty, fairness and transparency, and is committed to being responsible to society and all stakeholders in compliance with accepted principles of good corporate governance and business ethics. KCE believes that bribery and corruption must be tackled by all levels of society. KCE’s role as a private company is to act responsibly in all aspects of how KCE conducts business, as well as to actively support relevant initiatives to combat corruption. 18 POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • The Company is committed to implementing an anti-corruption policy. Directors, management executives and all employees of the Company will not accept any form of corruption involving all areas of business and all related sections of the organization. • The Company’s directors are responsible for setting up a policy and ensuring that an efficient system to detect corruption is in place. • The Company’s code of conduct and the business ethics must emphasize anti-corruption. • The Company’s financial statements are reviewed quarterly and audited by a qualified external auditor who is fully independent. • All information presented in the financial reports are correct, complete and reliable. It was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and appropriate standards. • KCE strives to treat all parties equally and consistently within the framework of the SET by avoiding favoritism or situations where conflicts of interest may arise. • Directors, management executives and all employees must comply with the Company’s code of conduct where sensitive issues are involved. • Whistle blowing: The Company has a policy to receive information regarding wrongdoing, violations of the law, regulations or Good Corporate Governance principles, or corruption, directly through the Audit Committee. ACTIONS KCE’s Board of Directors appointed a Corporate Governance Committee on September 17, 2013. The committee is responsible for managing and controlling the Company’s operations in accordance with good corporate governance, policies and related laws. In 2015, the CG Committee promoted the efficiency in the practice of Corporate Governance: • Encouraged the distribution of Corporate Governance Policy, business ethics and a code of conduct • Updated the corporate governance and code of conduct handbook. • Had all subcommittees and the CEO conduct a self-performance appraisal. • Established a channel for claims and suggestions on any matter so that employees and stakeholders could express their opinions independently, which led to improvements. • Reviewed, adjusted, assessed and updated Corporate Governance principles and business ethics to conform with the law, regulations of the SET and SEC, and good practices of international standards, and reported such compliance to the Board in each quarter. 19 Throughout 2015, KCE promoted communication regarding an anti-corruption policy and fully supported the undertaking of the certification process. As a result, the Company was certified a member of CAC on April 3, 2015. The Company encouraged the distribution of the Anti-corruption policy and communicated with management and employees of all level in order that the policy is accounted for as a practical guideline and ensured that operation management is performed honestly, efficiently and effectively. . At orientations provided for new employees, the Company explains KCE’s business ethics, and employees must sign a form in which they agree to strictly comply with the Company’s employee code of conduct. Regarding the anti-corruption news, HR regularly communicated throughout the organization. Concern Departments: HR implemented the reference check before hiring and Purchasing Department also implemented the reference check on seller and subcontractor, before procurement. The Company provided whistle blowing channel and investigate the petition. Subsequent to the CAC membership certification awarded on April 3, 2015, the Committee has placed an importance on corporate governance procedures and the compliance with anti-corruption guideline practice. The Committee assigned Internal Audit Unit to incorporate assessment criteria for anticorruption measures on all its audit's checklist. In 2016, the Board continued to promote the efficiency in the practice of Corporate Governance, the Board: • Encouraged the distribution of Corporate Governance Policy, business ethics and a code of conduct. • Updated the corporate governance and code of conduct handbook. • Had all subcommittees and the CEO conduct a self-performance appraisal. • Established a channel for claims and suggestions on any matter so that employees and stakeholders could express their opinions independently, which led to improvements. • Oversaw the Corporate Governance Committee in reviewing, adjusting, assessing and updating Corporate Governance principles and business ethics to conform with the law, regulations of the SET and SEC, and good practices of international standards, and reported such compliance to the Board. • Designated the Internal Auditor unit to take role of the Compliance Unit , and directly reported to the Audit Committee. • Considered and approved a plan to prepare for recertification in Thailand’s private sector Collective Action Coalition (CAC) membership, within December 15, 2017. 20 PERFORMANCE o There was no fraud reported by the internal auditor for 2016. o A business code of conduct and practical guidelines were completed in 2014 and continuously updated in the following years. o KCE undertook steps in compliance with the CAC's certification process, such as the development of anti-corruption measures, conducting self-evaluations regarding anti-corruption practices. As a result, the Company was certified a CAC member on April 3, 2015. o In 2015, the Company was awarded an Excellent ranking for its Corporate Governance based on a survey of listed companies, by the Thai Institute of Directors Association (IOD) o SET Awards 2015: The Company was awarded the Outstanding CEO Awards and the Outstanding Company Performance Awards , in a category of company with market capitalization of Bt10,000 30,000 million. o The Board has committed to place importance in conducting business within the framework of Good Corporate Governance. As a result, the Company achieved an Excellent” corporate governance score in the 2016 Annual survey by the Thai Institute of Directors Association (IOD), for the second consecutive year. o The 2016 Audit Committee’s report confirmed that: The Company’s financial report for the year ended December 31, 2015, was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and the information was accurate, complete and reliable with a reasonable application of accounting policy. The Company’s internal control systems are adequate and appropriate. All related party transactions are part of the Company’s normal course of business with regular commercial terms, sensible and fair conditions and for the maximum benefit of the Company. The Company fully complies with the Public Company Act and regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand, as well as other laws pertaining to the Company’s business. o SET Awards 2016: KCE's CEO was awarded the Outstanding CEO Awards (in SET) and the Young Rising Star CEO Award . In addition, the Company was awarded the Best Company Performance Awards , in a category of company with market capitalization of Bt30,000 100,000 million. 21 Appendix 1: Certificates/Awards KCE was awarded the TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion Level, Initiative Phase for the achievement of the requirements of Thai Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, which is valid from August 15, 2016, to August 14, 2019. 22 The Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2016 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued date August 17, 2016. 23 ISO 14001: 2004, valid from October 14, 2015 – March 28, 2017 (certified since March 28, 2002), certified by UKAS in regard to the Environmental Management System and Quality Management System. 24 ISO 14001: 2004, valid from October 14, 2015 – March 28, 2017 (certified since March 28, 2002), certified by NAC in regard to the Environmental Management System and Quality Management System. 25 ISO/TS 16949:2009 Edition 3 (September 23, 2016 September 14, 2018), Certificate of Quality Management System of Technical Specification for Automatic Productive and Relevant Service Part (certified since July 18, 2003). 26 ISO 9001:2008 (October 14, 2015 September 14, 2018), certified by UKAS 27 KCE was certified by the Green Industry , the Ministry of Industry, that the Company is rated Green industry-Level 3) in the Green system, as the Company has systematically manage the environment, monitor and assess the outcome and continuously improve the results, issued by April 3, 2015 April 2, 2018. 28 KCE undertook steps in compliance with the CAC's certification process, such as the development of anticorruption measures, conducting self-evaluations regarding anti-corruption practices. As a result, the Company was certified a CAC member on April 3, 2015. 29 SET Awards 2016: The Company was awarded the Outstanding CEO Awards and the Best Company Performance Awards , in a category of company with market capitalization of Bt30,000 100,000 million. 30 Appendix 2: Training and Development KCE implements an employee development program to enhance their knowledge and potential. In 2016, training courses for employees included, but were not limited to, the following: Period (TL No. of No. Course Objective Target Group Date Hours) Trainee Safety 1 ERT (EMERGENCY Train Emergency Response Team Emergency Response Apr-Dec 2016 63 10-15 RESPONSE TEAM) Team 2 Fire Suppression 1.To educate causes and All employees Jan, Jun, Jul, 48 195 Basis prevention of fires Aug, Oct, Nov and Dec 2016 2.To educate how to use fire suppression equipment. 3 Safety Officer in To comply with the rule Supervisors of all Mar, Jul, Sept 48 50 Supervisor level Section Nov & Dec 2016 4 Folklift skills and 1. To develop skills in using Warehouse, Material May, Jun, Nov 18 91 Maintenance Training Forklift. preparation, FG stock 2016 2. To educate for maintenance. 5 Safety for working with To comply with the rules and X-ray Area Staffs Mar, Nov 2016 15 37 X-rays educate how to prevent dangerous when working with X-rays. 6 Safety for working with To provide knowledge of how to Sr. Supervisor, Sep 2016 6 40 Machinery work with the machine safely and Supervisor, Sr. safety rules. Engineer, Engineer 31 7 Safety training for the 1. To comply with the law The Committee Oct 2016 12 25 Committee of Safety, 2. To educate the Committee member Occupational Health member to understand their roles and Environment and responsibilities. 8 Annual Fire Drills and 1.To comply with the rules. All Employees Dec 2016 1.0 2,630 Evacuation. 2.To educate how to survive and move from fire areas. 9 Training for the basic To understand the basic Foreman, Leader and Dec 2016 6 38 of First Aid knowledge of the first aid and be Operator able to help in the emergency incident Training for the All employees Feb, Oct 2016 12 100 standard First Aid 10 Chemical Handing & 1. To know various types of Employee working with Mar, Jul, Aug, 15 146 Emergency chemical and the usage of chemical Dec 2016 Response chemical 2. Provide safety procedure in handling and storing chemical and working with chemical. 3.How to handle the emergency incident in case of chemical leaking. 11 Controlling procedure To understand the regulation of EU Sr. Supervisor, Sr. Feb 2016 6 28 for RoHs V.2. WEEE Engineer, Supervisor, and REACH Engineer, 12 Safety Awareness To create safety awareness in Foreman, Operator Jun 2016 6 80 everyday working, toward zero accident. 32 13 Risk Assessment 1. To provide knowledge of risk Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Feb, Mar 2016 24 33 assessment in workplace Sr.Supervisor, 2. To increase the efficiency in Supervisor, Foreman, safety work Leader Environment 14 ISO 14001:2005 1.To educate about the Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Jun 2016 6.0 54 Requirement environment management system Sr. Supervisor, 2. To specify rules of environment Supervisor management for ISO 14001:2005 15 Monitoring for To understand the importance and Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Jan, Jul, Oct 24 145 environment the regulations of the environment Sr. Supervisor, 2016 management management system of ISO Supervisor (Effective Internal 14001:2005 and be able to Audit for ISO prepare an effective monitoring 14001:2005) report for the audit 16 Creation of an 1.To create awareness of energy Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Dec 2016 3.5 46 awareness in energy conservation Sr. Supervisor, conservation, and 2. Provide guideline for energy Supervisor Techniques conservation in short term and long term 3. Create a role model for energy conservation 17 Energy Conservation To provide knowledge of various Energy Team May 2016 6 17 operations measures for energy conservation, which was implemented. 18 ISO14001:2005 1. To educate about the Foreman Jan 2016 9 109 Basic Requirement environment management system Leader, Sr. Officer 2. To be able to apply to work 33 Human Resources 19 Training for the To be aware of the proper Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Sept, Oct 2016 12 68 Trainer qualification for the Trainer Sr.Supervisor, Supervisor, Foreman, Leader, Sr. Officer 20 Team Building & To create enthusiasm and joyful in Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Aug 2016 6 55 Teamwork working together as a team Sr. Supervisor, Techniques Supervisor, foreman, leader, officer 21 Supervisory skills To provide knowledge regarding Foreman, Leader Aug 2016 48 465 necessary skills for a supervisor; good attitude, leadership skill, and to apply to work 22 Anti-corruption To be aware of corruption and the All employees Feb, Aug 2016 12 240 Anti-policy in place for KCE group. 23 Developing KPI 1. To educate KPI concept and All employees Feb, Aug, 2016 18 285 guideline for developing KPI 24 Communication & Co1. To learn how to effectively Supervisor, Jun, Dec 2016 12 104 ordination technique assign the work to subordinate SR.Supervisor 2. To get the skill in evaluating the Engineer, Sr. subordinate, and the needs for Engineer, foreman, coaching. leader, officer 25 Disciplinary action To be aware of the Labor law and Foreman, Leader, Sr. Jun 2016 12 70 and the Labor law regulations, and understand the Officer technique for disciplinary action 34 Appendix 3: CSR activities In 2016, the Company together with its employees participated in the following activities to contribute to the community and the public: Activity 1: The Eggs and Chickens for Kids project, donation of teaching aids, sport equipment, consumer goods, and provided lunch. Location: MongLuang School, Tambon Kong Khaek, Amphoe Mae Chaem, Chiang Mai province Date: Saturday, February 20, 2016 The Company together with the Gift for Life Foundation initiated the Eggs and Chickens for Kids project by providing 20-30 pullets with eggs, built a poultry house, donated poultry equipment, vaccines, medicine and food. The project also provided knowledge about how to raise and take care of chickens in the first 3 months so that the school has a continuous supply of eggs that can be used to provide lunch for children. The project at the same time can promote a supplementary occupation for students as well as the village community. On the activity day, the Company also provided lunch to the students, donated teaching aids, sport equipment and other necessary consumer goods to the school. The MongLuang School, Tambon Kong Khaek, Amphoe Mae Chaem, Chiang Mai, is a government school. The school provides classes for students from kindergarten to Mathayom level 3. It has 198 students, most from the Karen-Pgazkoenyau hill tribe, and 8 teachers. The school was formerly named Bann Mae Kong School built in May 1978, registration No. 33/1598 dated April 28, 1978, located at Moo 6, Tambon Kong Khaek, Amphoe Mae Chaem, Chiang Mai. The school was originally a local school under the Provincial Administrative Organization of Chiang Mai. It was first opened with a primary level education curriculum in May 1978. In the first stage, there was no school building, so students used a Christian church in the village. Later, the school received a budget from the Provincial Administrative Organization of Chiang Mai to construct a wooden school building comprising 4 classrooms and 1 teacher's house. The new school building opened on February 27, 1980. Ownership of the land of the school was transferred to State Property comprising 8 rai, 2 ngan, 2 square wah. In 1983, the school established the MongLuang School, Mae Omlan Branch, registration No. Sor Thor 1420.07/106, dated February 22, 1983, under the Sirikit Forest Garden Project. The school branch opened in May 20, 1983. 35 36 Activity 2: Donation to support the repair and maintenance of a building for psychiatric patients of the Galya Rajanagarindra Institute, the Department of Mental Health, Phuttamonthon 4 Road, Taveewattana District, Bangkok 37 The Galya Rajanagarindra Institute, formerly named the Forensic Psychiatric Hospital, is a psychiatric hospital under the Department of Mental Health, Ministry of Public Health, situated at 23 Moo 8, Phuttamonthon 4 Road, Taveewattana, Bangkok, in operation since 1971. The hospital aims to provide treatment to patients until they can lead a normal life safely in the family and society. Her Majesty Princess Galyani Vadhana Krom Luang Narathiwat Rajanakarin endorsed a change in name of the hospital to the Galya Rajanagarindra Institute in 2002. The institute’s objectives are to release the sense of guilt for psychiatric patients associated with lawsuits and to provide forensic inpatient psychiatric treatment for persons of all age groups. The building is more than 45 years old, and at present it is heavily overburdened both in terms of physical capacity and sanitary system to the point where the floor area cannot be fully utilized. The institute carried out some maintenance from time to time, but the budget was limited while many patients could not afford to pay for treatment. The institute must also provide rehabilitation treatment and develop services in accordance with general hospital standards, including the consideration of human rights. KCE Group donated Bt1,800,000 (One Million and Eight Hundred Thousand Baht) for use as maintenance with the aim to modify the ward in order to make it look more patient-friendly. 38 Activity 3: Offering lunch, recreation activities and donating goods Location: Ban Banglamung Social Welfare Development Center for the Elderly, Chonburi province Date: Saturday May 14, 2016 Ban Banglamung Social Welfare Development Center for the Elderly is situated at Tambon Banglamung, Amphoe Banglamung, Chonburi province. It is the first elderly care center incorporated between the government and the private sector. The Department of Social Development and Welfare later asked the Office of the Civil Service Commission to change the name to the Social Welfare Development Center for the Elderly. The structure of the center was then reorganized, with its main duty and responsibility to provide standard welfare to the elderly, provide good care, develop the potential of the elderly and promote a cooperative network among the elderly. There are a total of 220 persons in the center comprising 95 men and 125 women, most of whom were abandoned by their family or are from poor families that are unable to care for their elderly members. The Company together with 38 staffs joined to support the community by arranging recreational activities with the elderly in the Development Center, provide lunch and ice cream and donate consumer goods. 39 40 41 Activity 4: Other projects: 1) Group relation, at Bonanza Resort, Khao Yai, Nakorn Ratchasima Province, July 16-17, 2016 The Company arranged the activities for the group of employees to provide knowledge, working skills, build up relationship among the group, and including the living and working as a team. The employee also donated money to support the maintenance of the roof of the temple. 42 2) Activity for Flood relief in the South, Amphoe Cha-uat, Nakhon Si Thammarat province, On December 17, 2016 The Company has jointly in part to help people who were impacted by the flood in the South, in Amphoe Cha-uat, Nakhon Si Thammarat, by distributed the survival kits to the Flood victims at Ban Kuantiae, Ban Nalong and Ban Koksang in Amphoe Cha-uat. 43 3) Offering Thian Phansa and Alms to the monks, on the Buddhist Lent Day At Wat Sichanpradit, Samut Prakan Province, July 15, 2016 The Company has jointly inherited Thai tradition of offering the Thian Phansa and the Bath-robe to the monks on the Buddhist Lent Day, at Wat Sichanpradit, Samut Prakan Province on July 15, 2016. 44 4) Training project for the Compost fertilizer from the Water Hyacinth, Ayutthaya Province The Company incorporation with Hi-Tech Industrial Estate (Ban Wa) arranged the activity to promote occupations and earnings during the dry season for the farmers, as there is no cropping due to water shortage crisis. 45 5) The Reforestation Promotion Project, to generate income Location: Ban NaPor Community, Loei Province in accordance with H.R.H. Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn Date: May 7-8, 2016 The Company took part in the conservation and restoration of the forest area upstream with the aim to help maintain the environment and upgrade the quality of life of the people in the community. The project advocates decreasing monoculture planting and adopting mixed planting in accordance with the philosophy of the Sufficiency Economy of His Majesty the King Bhumibol Adulyadej. The project is also in line with the initiative of HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn to provide guidelines about ways to improve forest communities’ livelihoods. The Company encouraged people in the community to build a check dam and engage in reforestation to improve the fertility of the forest and upstream area, reduce vulnerability to drought, and to stop the decrease of forest area. 46 6) Mangrove planting at the Bangpu Nature Education Centre, Bangpu Recreation Center On August 19, 2016 The Company arranged the activity with the community for the nature conservation and mangrove planting, at the Bangpu Nature Education Centre, Bangpu Recreation Center, to promote unity among the working groups in the Industrial Estate community and to encourage employees to jointly participate in the mangrove planting with the community. 47 48
