Communication on Progress 2017 2 Communication on Progress Contents Click on any section to jump to it. Introduction 03 CEO Statement of Continued Support in 2017 04 The PrintFleet Way 05 About the United Nations Global Compact 06 The Ten Principles Communication on Progress 07 Human Rights 09 Labour 11 Environment 13 Anti-Corruption 15 About This Report www.printfleet.com 3 Communication on Progress CEO Statement of Continued Support in 2017 June 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PrintFleet reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we will describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Chris McFarlane President & CEO www.printfleet.com The PrintFleet Way Mission PrintFleet exists to provide timely, reliable data that creates actionable information enabling automation of processes within the industries we serve. Vision PrintFleet strives to be an innovative global leader – providing accurate, reliable data to empower the people we serve to solve business challenges and foster growth. Values Respect: Holding one another in high regard, appreciating and recognizing the professional value and worth of fellow coworkers/team members. Integrity: Acting in such a way that your actions reflect PrintFleet’s values: being trustworthy, respecting others and demonstrating openness, communication and accountability. Transparency: Individual and collective openness, communication and accountability. Trust: Being confident in the abilities of others and demonstrating reliability in both what you say and how you act. 5 Communication on Progress About the United Nations Global Compact Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary initiative that works with organizations everywhere to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation, and disclosure of responsible corporate policies and practices. It is the world’s largest global corporate sustainability initiative, with over 8,000 companies and 4,000 non-business participants based in over 160 countries. For more information: www.unglobalcompact.org. www.printfleet.com 6 Communication on Progress The Ten Principles Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. www.printfleet.com Human Rights Where, after all, do universal human rights begin? In small places, close to home so close and so small that they cannot be seen on any maps of the world...Without concerted citizen action to uphold them close to home, we shall look in vain for progress in the larger world. — Eleanor Roosevelt 8 Communication on Progress Actions As a global company with employees based in six countries and customers in over 20 countries, we firmly believe in and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our commitment to human rights is reflected in our hiring practices, our conduct and our day-today business activities. We are an equal opportunity employer encouraging diversity in the workplace. All qualified applicants receive consideration for employment without regard to race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other status or characteristic protected by law. Outcomes • Improve our employee onboarding process to better educate staff on their employee rights and responsibilities, PrintFleet’s corporate culture, including our participation in the UN Global Compact, and the company’s policies and procedures • Bring in a third-party consulting company during the upcoming year to deliver presentations and provide coaching on team dynamics, cross-cultural communication and more • Have this training be required of all employees to help our business maintain an informed, respectful and globally-conscious work environment • Keep a box available for employees to anonymously submit questions, concerns and suggestions about their work environment and PrintFleet’s workplace policies, and have these contributions regularly reviewed and address by our human resources and executive teams www.printfleet.com Labour Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. — Martin Luther King, Jr. 10 Communication on Progress Actions PrintFleet actively promotes a healthy work-life balance by providing employees with access to comprehensive health and life insurance policies, flexible work hours, the ability to work remotely, team activities outside of work such as golf tournaments and holiday parties as well as an annual fitness credit to be put toward purchases that promote an active, healthy lifestyle. Our Workplace Health and Safety Policy as well as our Workplace Anti-Violence and Harassment Policy clearly state the rights and responsibilities of all employees to a maintain a safe work environment. Additionally, all PrintFleet staff are required to complete mandatory health and safety training, including AODA Customer Service Training, Occupational Health and Safety Awareness Training for Workers in Ontario, Workplace Violence and Harassment Training and WHMIS Training. Our Joint Health and Safety Committee (JHSC) is a dedicated resource comprised of employee and management-level representatives who are committed to ensuring all PrintFleet employees have access to a safe work environment. Outcomes • Our employee engagement score increased 10% from January 2016 to January 2017 • With employees are based in six countries, including Canada, England, Ireland, Switzerland, the Netherlands and the United States, continue to leverage video conferencing and telecommunications resources to improve communication with our global employees working remotely • Encourage more employees to participate in JHSC initiatives to continue providing a work environment which reflects PrintFleet’s corporate culture www.printfleet.com Environment The environment is so fundamental to our continued existence that it must transcend politics and become a central value of all members of society. — David Suzuki 12 Communication on Progress Actions As a software company, our operations result in a relatively minor direct environmental impact. In turn, our print management solutions enable businesses to reduce their environmental waste, including paper, toner and ink usage in addition to reducing their energy consumption. We have also partnered with environmentally sustainable companies like PrintReleaf to make print practices even greener. PrintReleaf’s automated global reforestation platform uses PrintFleet data to calculate a company’s paper consumption over time then calculates how many trees were deforested to harvest their paper footprint. This footprint is then automatically reforested in one of several reforestation projects in Brazil, the Dominican Republic, India, Ireland, Madagascar, Mexico and the United States. Outcomes • Continue recycling wherever possible despite the absence of a municipal recycling program for businesses and corporations in our area • Identify additional areas where we can minimize our environmental impact, including purchasing environmentally friendly office supplies and reducing our energy consumption • Continue promoting partners like PrintReleaf and communicating the value of their reforestation projects to our customers www.printfleet.com Anti-Corruption The accomplice to the crime of corruption is frequently our own indifference. — Bess Myerson 14 Communication on Progress Actions PrintFleet is committed to the highest degree of corporate responsibility, practicing ethical business conduct and building relationships with global partners who similarly exercise professionalism and do business in an honest and ethical manner. As part of this commitment, PrintFleet does not condone any form of corruption, bribery or extortion and has established systems to identify and mitigate suspect business practices. Our Finance team carefully monitors all PrintFleet transactions and records on a regular basis. They are aware of where each dollar, pound or euro goes and what is done with it. This awareness and level of detail helps us ensure that PrintFleet is not involved in unethical business practices related to corruption, bribery or extortion. Outcomes • PrintFleet has not been involved in any legal cases, ruling or other events related to corruption and bribery • We have an external company conduct an audit of PrintFleet’s finances at the end of each fiscal year • Audits are one way of identifying any questionable or suspicious transactions related to corrupt behaviour and we will continue to conduct them and share the results with the executive team as well as the board of directors www.printfleet.com About This Report About PrintFleet PrintFleet connects businesses by providing timely, reliable data, facilitating actionable information that enables automation of processes within the imaging industry – the industrialization of our industry. Our industry-leading print management solutions range from simple rapid assessment to advanced, managed services offering unparalleled agnostic data collection, analysis and back-end support. Available in multiple languages, PrintFleet solutions empower OEMs, resellers and distributors in over 100 countries to solve business challenges and foster growth. Additional information about PrintFleet can be found at www.printfleet.com. 2017 Communication on Progress PrintFleet joined the UN Global Compact in July 2016 and is dedicated to upholding its ten principles as well as practicing and promoting corporate sustainability. This report serves as PrintFleet’s first Communication on Progress in support of the UN Global Compact. It documents our progress against the ten principles and highlights our achievements and challenges during our first year as a member of the UN Global Compact. For more information on PrintFleet’s involvement with the UN Global Compact, visit info.printfleet.com/globalcompact. Stakeholders PrintFleet regards stakeholders as any party who can affect or be affected by our company’s operations, including but not limited to: • Our staff • Our board of directors • Our advisory board members • Our partners and customers • Local communities • Investment partners • Government bodies in countries in which we operate Communication Channels We use a number of different communication channels to share our annual Communication on Progress reports with stakeholders, including but not limited to: • Year in review (available on our website) • Our website and blog • Our social media channels • Emails and newsletters • Industry events
