UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 REPORT I STATEMENT 11 INTRODUCTION RESPECTING AND CONTRIBUTING 111 SUPPORTING HUMAN AND IV TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT LABOUR RIGHTS WORKING AGAINST FURTHER V CORRUPTION V1 INFORMATION 02 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact 1 STATEMENT It is with great pleasure that we submit our annual Communication on Progress (CoP) report which re-affirms our long standing commitment and describes our ongoing efforts to implement the ten UNGC principles and advance the broader sustainable development goals. As a leading global business law firm we believe it is incumbent upon us to demonstrate our commitment to responsible business, both in the way we conduct our own operations and in relation to the advice we provide to our clients. We are extremely proud of our position as a trusted adviser to many of the world’s leading multi-national corporations and we have used this position to assist our clients to become more responsible, sustainable businesses. Despite emerging global geopolitical challenges and increasing instability, last year we continued our strategy for change, innovation and integration across our firm, client services, legal practices and geographies. Our efforts and achievements have received international recognition and multiple awards, particularly our pro-bono work in the fields of children’s rights, rule of law, and protecting the rights of displaced people. Going forward we will continue to consolidate and improve our existing efforts and will put even greater emphasis on responsible management practices in everything we do. The image used on the cover of this report is one of the series of sculptures designed by Italian artist Arnaldo Pomodoro. The series is called “Sfera con Sfera” (Sphere within Sphere) and its meaning has been the subject of many interpretations. For us, the work represents the complexity and vulnerability of our world, and also the enormous potential we all have to make a positive impact if we collaborate with one another to solve some of our most pressing challenges. These sculptures can be found in many locations around the world including at the UN headquarters in New York. Yours sincerely, JUAN PICON Global Co-Chairman www.dlapiper.com | 03 11 INTRODUCTION As a leading global business law firm, DLA Piper is committed to the highest standards of honesty, transparency and accountability. We are proud to be one of the first law firms subscribing to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and its ten universal principles around human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our global business is organised under a Swiss verein KEY structure, with a Global Board appointed by and among DLA Piper Relationship Firms its members. The effective implementation of the UNGC DLA PIPER RELATIONSHIP FIRMS AUSTRALIA GERMANY PORTUGAL UNITED KINGDOM ANGOLA KENYA universal principles is driven by the senior leadership team Brisbane Canberra Cologne Frankfurt Lisbon Birmingham Edinburgh Luanda BOTSWANA Nairobi MAURITIUS QATAR and shared by every DLA Piper office across the globe. Melbourne Hamburg Doha DLA Piper made a formal commitment to the Global Perth Munich ROMANIA Leeds Liverpool Gaborone BURUNDI Port Louis MOZAMBIQUE Sydney HUNGARY London Bucharest Manchester Bujumbura Maputo Compact AUSTRIA Vienna in Budapest ITALY February RUSSIA Moscow 2013 and last year the Sheffield CHILE Santiago main focus NAMIBIA Windhoek UNITED STATES BAHRAIN Milan GLOBAL BOARD OF DLA PIPER Manama on further was Rome aligning our business St. Petersburg SAUDI ARABIA Albany Atlanta model Bogota with theLima COLOMBIA PERU BELGIUM JAPAN Atlantic City UNGC Antwerp Brussels universal Tokyo KUWAIT principles Al Khobar Jeddah Riyadh Austinintegrating the adopted and Baltimore CROATIA Zagreb RWANDA Kigali set BRAZIL São Pauloof Sustainable Development Kuwait City LUXEMBOURG SINGAPORE Singapore Boston Chicago Goals (SDGs) EGYPT Cairo into our TANZANIA Dar es Salaam Dallas Mwanza strategic and daily operations. CANADA Luxembourg ETHIOPIA SLOVAK REPUBLIC Houston Addis Ababa UGANDA Calgary MEXICO Bratislava Los Angeles Edmonton GHANA Kampala THE BOARD OF Mexico City SOUTH AFRICA Miami Montreal Minneapolis Accra ZAMBIA MOROCCO Johannesburg DLA PIPER Toronto Casablanca New York Lusaka Vancouver SOUTH KOREA Northern Virginia INTERNATIONAL LLP AMERICAS Yellowknife NORWAY Seoul Philadelphia EXECUTIVE CHINA Oslo SPAIN Phoenix COOPERATION FIRM COMMITTEE Beijing NETHERLANDS Madrid Raleigh BRAZIL Hong Kong Amsterdam Sacramento Shanghai SWEDEN San Diego Rio de Janeiro NEW ZEALAND Stockholm San Francisco São Paulo EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CZECH REPUBLIC Auckland THAILAND San Juan Prague Wellington Bangkok Seattle FINLAND OMAN Short Hills UKRAINE Helsinki Muscat Silicon Valley Kyiv FRANCE POLAND Washington, DC UNITED ARAB Wilmington The legal profession is one of public service and, as Paris GEORGIA Warsaw EMIRATES Abu Dhabi Tbilisi proud guardians of the law, we assist those in need Dubai of legal and related services. Law is at the heart of many human interactions, be that between private clients, corporations, charitable organisations or the government. This central role provides us with a unique opportunity to use our expertise and resources to practice our vision of responsible business, support the rule of law, advance access to justice, uphold human rights and promote environmental sustainability. With a global presence in over 30 countries and an international team of nearly 10,000, we are able to This trend will remain a priority in 2017, particularly as draw on a rich variety of talent, perspective and we continue to expand and strengthen our international experience. While our strength is in diversity, we presence. maintain an unwavering respect for the individual. We proudly strive for excellence in everything we do and create the work environment that fosters innovation, empowers new ideas and promotes partnerships with our global and local communities. 04 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact RESPECTING AND SUPPORTING 111 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should support and respect the protection Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of internationally proclaimed human rights; and and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights PRINCIPLE 4 abuses. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. DLA Piper is committed to respecting and supporting international human rights throughout our business operations. Our responsibilities in that respect are three folded: DLA Piper’s human rights policy is ■ as lawyers, it is our utmost duty to ensure that we consistent with: address human rights issues in a manner consistent the International Bill of Human Rights with the professional codes of conduct established Universal Declaration of Human Rights across jurisdictions we operate in; the International Covenant on Civil and ■ as providers of global legal and other services, we seek Political Rights to increase awareness among our clients, support them in assessing and proactively managing the risks; the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights ■ as a business enterprise, we strive to uphold our corporate responsibility obligations. These include, the International Labour Organisation’s but are not limited to, providing a safe and stimulating Declaration on Fundamental Principles working environment for our employees and ensuring and Rights at Work that the firm does not become complicit in human rights abuses through our global supply chain. the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights We continue to play an active role in sector-wide discussions on implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as a member of the Business and Human Rights Advisory Group of the UK Law Society. In 2016 we updated our Human Rights Policy to include a specific commitment to combat all forms of modern slavery. www.dlapiper.com | 05 1. OUR PEOPLE for at least one woman to be on the shortlist for all key management appointments and focus groups to At DLA Piper we are firmly committed to diversity and understand perceived and actual barriers to career inclusion. As a global business law firm, with a diverse progression. client base, we know that our clients expect our people to represent the communities in which we work and We are proud of the external recognition we have value our ability to advise them on both local and global received for our efforts in relation to gender parity. cultures and markets. We believe that our approach to At the Euromoney LMG Europe Women in Business Law diversity and inclusion enables us to attract the best Awards last year, the firm took home six awards in total, talent, build the most effective teams and deliver the including the award for Best Gender Diversity Initiative highest level of client service. in an International Firm for the third consecutive year. We have again been awarded the Employer of Choice for For us, diversity is not just about visible differences, Gender Equality citation by the Australian Government’s it is the unique blend of talents, skills, experiences Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA), having and perspectives that makes each of us an individual been a WGEA citation holder since the program began. and we strive to create an environment where these differences are valued and celebrated. As well as a Diversity and Inclusion Policy, we have also developed a comprehensive Diversity and Inclusion As our organization of nearly 10,000 employees operates training curriculum. The curriculum is currently being across more than 30 countries throughout the Americas, rolled out at all levels across the International firm Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, via our Career Academy training programme. A core our policies in each jurisdiction are tailored to the legal, element is Unconscious Bias training which aims to raise regulatory and cultural requirements of each geography. awareness of individual biases and how these biases We promote a culture in which everyone feels respected, potentially impact decision making, particularly within valued and included, where everyone has the opportunity key people processes. Around 260 partners have been to grow their career and where pathways to career trained to date. progression are transparent. Flexibility and agile working are key business tools to At DLA Piper we are committed to providing our help drive individual, team and firm productivity, and are employees with the safe and secure working environment crucial to attracting and retaining talented staff. We are that safeguards their health, and promotes physical continuing to embed agile working practices within and mental wellbeing, regardless of where in the the business and are focusing on career development world they work. To meet this commitment and to opportunities for agile workers. For the last two years, ensure consistent approach across our offices and a number of those promoted to partner work flexibly. areas of operation, we operate a robust management We actively welcome and value the ideas and system on par with international codes of practice contributions of all of our people. In some cases, and industry requirements. Through the process of people with common interests or backgrounds wish continuous improvement, we strive to uphold the highest to form resource groups to share insights and different performance standards and promote positive health and perspectives with each other and with the firm. safety culture throughout the organisation. We have two global Resource Groups: We have developed a firm-wide strategy to secure the gender talent pipeline, personally championed by ■ The Leadership Alliance for Women (LAW); the Senior Partner. This includes the moderation of all ■ Iris (LGBT) Network – for lesbian, gay, bisexual, promotions to include gender analysis, the requirement transgender colleagues and allies. 06 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact The key objectives of all our resource groups include: when trying to come to terms with his sexuality. The event was truly international, with 100 colleagues ■ Providing a platform for sharing information and ideas and clients from Spain, Italy, Germany, Hong Kong, between the group and the firm; Australia, the US and the UK present. ■ Networking opportunities both within the firm and We are Stonewall diversity champions in the UK and externally; members of Pride in Diversity in Australia and the ■ Opportunities to work jointly with clients; Hong Kong Gay and Lesbian Attorneys Network. ■ Raising our profile as an inclusive employer. Additionally, we were the first global law firm to Building on the good work of LAW initiatives throughout participate in the Pride parade of Leeds Pride festival. the UK, US and Australia, the Global Leadership Alliance We have sponsored the LGBT history festival in for Women (Global LAW, launched in early 2015) Manchester and Liverpool for the last three years. harnesses the expertise of colleagues engaged in local We supported ‘Wear it Purple’ day in Australia and initiatives around the firm and leverages best practices recognised World AIDS day in the UK and in Australia. among existing local mentoring, skills development and We recognise that diversity in the legal profession is networking programs to support the advancement of our a systemic challenge, with roots extending far beyond women lawyers worldwide. We have now established employment or development strategies for the current chapters in France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Belgium, workforce and going as far back as access to a higher The Netherlands, Luxembourg, Hong Kong and the degree studies or even basic education opportunities. Middle East. Through our flagship global programme Break into Law The key priorities for Global LAW include: we utilise our strength as a leading global law firm to ■ Recruitment and Retention of women lawyers; ensure that under-represented young people around the world have access to career opportunities within ■  dvancement and leadership opportunities for women A our industry and gain key employability skills through a lawyers; series of projects utilizing our resources and experience. ■ S upporting internal and external business development In addition to providing scholarships and sponsorships to opportunities. the students, we offer a wide range of bespoke initiatives such as internships and apprenticeships, in-depth work Our LGBT network was re-named Iris following a global experience weeks, CV and interview skills workshops, naming competition. In Greek mythology, Iris is the career insight days and access to dedicated mentors. personification of the rainbow and is the messenger of We also conduct research into the factors influencing the gods, linking them to the mortals. The group aims to access to careers within our profession and run thought promote an inclusive working environment by offering leadership events to further explore key challenges and networking opportunities, raising awareness across the opportunities. firm and partnering with clients on LGBT initiatives. We recognize that our diversity initiatives have a long In February 2017 we held a ‘re-launch’ event in London term time horizon, but we believe that we are on a to announce the new name, with guest speaker Gareth journey and whilst, like most law firms, we still have Thomas, former Wales rugby player, who spoke movingly some distance to travel, with strategic approaches in our about his personal life and the difficulties he experienced geographic regions, we are making great progress. www.dlapiper.com | 07 2. OUR SUPPLIERS international business and human rights lawyers with multi-jurisdictional, cross-practice experience to support As a global business law firm, DLA Piper recognises that business in this emerging area. sustainable procurement and supply chain management are the key elements of responsible business practice. Using bespoke tools and guidance we work with a number of businesses to develop a proactive approach in Our global Sustainable Procurement Policy provides the areas of: a high-level outline of our approach to ensuring that all suppliers and contractors act consistently with our ■ Risk management – Sound risk management is about values and commitments, particularly with respect to having effective systems and processes for identifying human rights, safe and fair working conditions, and the and preventing or responding to adverse human rights, key principles and rights embedded in ILO Declaration. social and community impacts. Our supply chain is relatively straight-forward and yet ■ Reporting and disclosure – Reporting and disclosure it cuts across many different national cultures, wide requirements are increasingly focusing on encouraging ranging business norms and traditions, bringing with it a transparency and requiring businesses to disclose multitude of potential risks as well as opportunities. human rights, social and community risks as well as information on human rights policies and their We actively encourage diversity throughout our supply effectiveness. chain and seek to provide a level playing field for all potential suppliers irrespective of their size, ethnicity, ■ Crisis management – When a business faces criticism ownership and location. or unexpected human rights-related issues, such as adverse impacts on physical or sexual integrity of We form partnerships with our more mature and workers or local community members, or land rights advanced suppliers and service providers to achieve related disruption to operations, DLA Piper can help economies of scale and scope in mitigating the life-cycle clients effectively respond with its global investigation impacts. At the same time we are fully committed to and crisis management capability. working closely with the smaller local companies to help them achieve necessary experience, capability and ■ Supply chain management – Sustainable supply financial viability to successfully undertake the work chains and ethical procurement procedures make whilst complying with our policy requirements. good business sense and create long-term social and economic value for all stakeholders involved in We encourage our new strategic suppliers to subscribe bringing products and services to the market. to and provide detailed sustainability information through our Supplier Portal. The Portal allows us to consistently Our award-winning programme What In-house monitor compliance and reduce risk of exposure, Lawyers Need (WIN) offers the tools, training and including in the areas of human rights and working knowledge to in-house lawyers on a wide range of conditions, modern slavery, health and safety. technical, commercial as well as personal aspects. In addition to bespoke services, WIN offers interactive 3. OUR CLIENTS and practical training on topics that range from diversity and inclusion, employment law to health and safety, Businesses operating in areas affected by instability responsible sourcing and outsourcing. (eg social, political, economic) or managing complex value chains face a unique set of challenges. Understanding Recorded DLA Piper Legal training available within WIN – THE FACTS the human rights impacts is an essential component of webinars your business Winner of the FT integrity, risk management and citizenship for many of FT innovative lawyer awards 2013 in client service our clients. Events and live webinars Online database Over 3,400 registered user in our online community training (for example resource At DLA Piper we are taking steps to further develop our from PLC) Members from over 35 countries in-house human rights expertise to support the clients DLA Piper WIN Over 70 events through our advisory work. We have built a dedicated events per year International Business and Human Rights team led by Over 3,000 have attended win event in the UK 08 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact 4. OUR COMMUNITIES DLA Piper is committed to pro bono that supports access to justice and rule of law around the world. We encourage our lawyers to do pro bono work, much of which focuses on education, human rights, non-profits and charity law, juvenile justice and veterans support. As one of the largest law firms in the world and a thought leader in the creation and delivery of pro bono services, we are able to develop, manage and deliver pro bono in size, scale and scope unlike any other global law firms. Displaced People The world is facing an unprecedented displacement crisis. Today, more than 65 million people are forcibly displaced as a result of violent conflicts and natural disasters, the highest number since the Second World War. We believe that the legal profession can play an important role in providing assistance to these extremely vulnerable individuals. This can be done by working to ensure that displaced persons have the fullest possible access to justice and can take advantage of the legal protections afforded to them by law. DLA Piper is committed to aiding and protecting people who have found themselves in a state of displacement, including refugees, asylum seekers, stateless people and homeless people. Across the world, our lawyers are working with individuals, NGOs and intergovernmental organisations to help address this crisis. We have established a Pro Bono Signature Project to address the complex legal issues facing these extremely vulnerable individuals, to inform them of their rights, to assist them in navigating the complex legal regulations and to build the capacity of other actors in the sector. We offer a broad range of support to a plethora of organizations, including peak bodies such as UNHCR. We assist NGOs and civil and human rights organisations that seek to educate, advocate or litigate against structural discrimination affecting refugees, asylum seekers and stateless individuals. www.dlapiper.com | 09 We have established legal clinics in Europe, the UK and We provide legal support and strategic advice to the US to facilitate access to justice for asylum seekers, UNHCR and leading NGOs in the sector, including refugees and stateless people. Through these legal clinics European Council on Refugees and Exiles (ECRE), our lawyers meet with vulnerable individuals, work with the UNHCR, Habeas Corpus, Refugee Action, the them to obtain evidence to support their claims, draft Belgian Refugee Council, the Italian Refugee Council, the necessary applications, and provide representation at Coram Children’s Legal Centre and the Urban Justice hearings. We represent individuals in asylum proceedings Center. We have seconded a lawyer to Diakonie to work and assist stateless people with the legal procedure for on these issues in Austria. We also work with UNHCR recognition of statelessness; we also provide research and government agencies to clarify existing laws and assistance on the rights of undocumented migrants to bring about change. healthcare. UK: Coram Children’s Netherlands: Birth Poland: Russia: Assisting the Belgium Clinic; Manuel Bravo Clinic; Registration Clinic; Research for Refugee Council; Secondment to Habeas Corpus Unlawful Migration Law Clinic ECRE the UNHCR; Legal skills training Detention Clinic; Research to lawyers representing internally for ECRE displaced people in Moldova and Armenia Belgium: Supporting Flemish Refugee Action; Finland: Assisting US colleagues Research for ECRE to relocate a refugee to Finland US: Urban Justice Center Japan: Representation of African France: Strategic litigation refugee in Japanese immigration on asylum law; Report proceedings on child statelessness for European Network of Statelessness Hungary: Ukraine: Legal skills Austria: Secondment to Germany: Research for ECRE Secondment to training to lawyers Diakonie (Austrian aid agency); the UNHCR; representing internally Report on child statelessness Research for displaced people in Italy: Statelessness and for European Network on ECRE Ukraine Asylum Seekers’ Legal Clinic Statelessness; Research for ECRE In 2016 DLA Piper was recognised for this work by a Children’s Rights number of organizations, including: Millions of children across the globe are prevented from ■ the ALM, publisher of The American Lawyer and Legal having a fulfilling childhood and realising their potential. Week, where we were awarded the 2016 “Pro Bono Children are vulnerable and are often the most affected Programme of the Year” award; by poverty, conflict, natural disaster and discrimination. Fortunately, children have many rights under ■ the Fondazione Sodalitas, where we were awarded international law and the legal profession must play an the 2016 Social Award. important role in helping children to secure those rights. 10 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact DLA Piper is committed to ensuring that children ■ 234 young people arrested by police have seen their everywhere have their legal rights recognised and cases handled within the community, rather than protected. Through our Child Rights Signature Project through the adult court system. we work with leading NGOs, intergovernmental ■ 424 key professionals, including police officers and organisations and governments on strategic and lawyers, have received training on child friendly justice coordinated efforts to increase access to justice for and the 2013 Children’s Act. children globally by meeting and reducing demand for legal services and by supporting better policies In a number of countries, we undertake advocacy and for promoting children’s rights. direct representation to protect the rights of children engaged with the justice system. In 2013 we embarked upon a partnership with UNICEF, the world’s leading advocate for children. The lack of universal birth registration is also a focus The partnership is aimed at strengthening the protection area, as it is one of the key factors preventing children of children around the world. When children come from enjoying their human rights. This is a serious into contact with the law, our goal is to ensure they are protection issue that UNICEF is addressing with treated fairly and are protected from violence, abuse authorities with the support of DLA Piper. We have and exploitation. Since 2013 we have dedicated more undertaken a review of the relevant and existing than 14,400 pro bono hours to this work, with a value legislation in a number of jurisdictions in order to assess of more than $4.5 million. Our lawyers and staff have the consistency and adequacy of the law in each country, also raised $1.2 million in support of UNICEF’s work and ultimately to help UNICEF target advocacy efforts worldwide and we have seconded lawyers to support and identify key areas for change. We are committed UNICEF’s work in Australia, The Gambia and in Norway. to improving educational outcomes for all children, all around the world. We advocate for and represent Working with UNICEF we have helped to reduce children with disabilities so that they can receive the the incidence of child marriage, supported UNICEF’s support that they need in school, and we provide legal work to improve birth registration in 23 countries and, support and strategic advice to schools and NGOs in on legislation around harmful practices such as child the sector. marriage and female genital mutilation in The Gambia. We have also undertaken significant research around To help reduce demand for legal services, and raise business and human rights issues which will help UNICEF children’s awareness of their rights we are providing advocate for greater corporate accountability worldwide. interactive ‘know your rights’ trainings at schools and youth centres and providing capacity building seminars to A core focus of our work has been the Justice for key actors (including other lawyers). We will be looking Children project in Bangladesh, where we have helped to broaden the reach of these sessions in 2017. to create a more child-friendly justice system in line with international standards. Achievements include: ■ Approximately 1,600 adolescents benefited from juvenile delinquency prevention through education, training and counselling. www.dlapiper.com | 11 Rule of Law Many countries face particular challenges that make it disability and LGBTI individuals. We provide legal advice more difficult to foster growth. These challenges are to organisations that work to end hunger and poverty often the result of conflict or other instability and result and combat domestic violence and human trafficking. in outdated laws, weak legal institutions and an unfriendly We support NGOs to provide comments on draft environment for investors. By working with underlegislation, submit amicus briefs and draft shadow reports resourced governments and others on key issues we aim to UN treaty body committees. We also help to build to help reduce poverty and increase stability through confidence and capacity by creating case summaries economic growth. of human rights laws and providing training on key legal issues. We also counsel NGOs on their core Since 2008 we have provided lawyers on a secondment administrative and governance matters. basis to the Ministry of Finance of Timor-Leste Government. These lawyers support the Ministry, As a global law firm, we understand that our while also providing advice on matters relating to business, responsibility goes beyond the cities and countries where finance, human rights and foreign affairs. In 2016 we also we work. DLA Piper has established a ground-breaking seconded a lawyer to Vanuatu to assist the Government international pro bono initiative, New Perimeter, that with rebuilding the country after Cyclone Pam. is dedicated to bringing together our global lawyers The secondees have provided advice on a range of to provide focused pro bono services in under-served matters, including business, infrastructure and foreign regions around the world. New Perimeter projects aim affairs. This secondment forms part of our Signature to build local capacity in the legal profession and support Project on Pacific Island nations, through which we seek access to justice, social and economic development, and to improve the legal skills and knowledge of rule of law in sound legal institutions. some of the most vulnerable countries in the world. In 2016, our lawyers worked through New Perimeter on We provide pro bono legal advice to the g7+ in order a range of projects, including: to assist in the development of the world’s most fragile ■ training public sector lawyers and judges in East Africa nations. The g7+ is a voluntary association of countries on negotiation and contract drafting skills; that have been affected by conflict, but which are transitioning to the next stage of development. It aims ■ supporting women lawyers in Nepal to increase their to unite conflict and post-conflict affected countries to contribution to the legal, political and commercial life change the way that the developed world channels its of their country; aid and development programmes. We have given each ■ training graduate and undergraduate law students from g7+ government or related government entity access to across Africa on foundational legal skills; our global network of lawyers. We have reached out to a number of g7+ countries in order to offer focused legal ■ improving victim protection, increasing offender advice, training and capacity building. accountability and creating a coordinated community response to gender-based violence by training judges, We engage with civil society to strengthen the rule of prosecutors, and police officers in South America and law and support full participation in government and Southeast Asia; and society. We work with organizations that support and represent vulnerable minorities and disenfranchised ■ drafting model legislation on consumer financial individuals, including organisations that support the protection for financial regulators in countries with poor, women, stateless individuals, individuals with a underdeveloped regulatory regimes for microfinance. 12 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact Law Students in Developing Countries Access to justice, social and economic development and Access to Social and Sound legal Women’s sound legal institutions are important pre-requisites for Justice economic institutions Advancement strong communities. In each of our offices around the development world we work to support these fundamental principles. Provide: Support: Train: Assist: Courses on Pro Financial Law Students Female We are also committed to supporting legal advancement Bono and Public Inclusion lawyers and Legal worldwide. Interest Law Intellectual Professionals entrepreneurs Legal Ethics Property Judges and Anti-human An important area of focus for New Perimeter is building Training Protection Government trafficking Assistance to Legislative Lawyers initiatives the capacity and confidence of upcoming generations of Legal Service Drafting Efforts to lawyers. In 2016, our lawyers worked to help train law Providers combat domestic students on a range of topics, including: violence ■ legal writing and analysis skills in Zambia; ■ ethical practice, professional responsibility, access to In 2016 from participated in justice and pro bono in Southeast Asia; 172 42 38 total lawyers offices Project ■ practical legal skills in Myanmar; ■ pro bono and public interest law in Latin America. We are mindful of the ever increasing need to share Other examples of the types of work New Perimeter has knowledge and expertise, and to this end, we will undertaken include: launch, in mid-2017, a global scholarships programme for undergraduate law students from ten of UN’s the Least Developed Countries. The Scholarship is open to high achieving students who would not otherwise have access to the role models, work experience, mentoring and financial assistance this programme will provide. By working closely with the next generation of local lawyers and business leaders, DLA Piper will support skills development, build capacity and promote the rule of law. www.dlapiper.com | 13 1V CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. DLA Piper strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability: ■ among our peers – in managing our own business DLA Piper’s environmental sustainability priority areas: activities and operational footprint. This extends to both legal services and internal business services, ENERGY – with over 90 offices across the globe, including property and workplace management; the natural focus is on reducing our energy use, improving energy efficiency and increasing use of ■ for our clients – in providing leading edge legal green energy. advice and related services while promoting greater environmental responsibility, sustainability and WASTE – as a global law firm, waste management innovation. initiatives have particular emphasis on reducing paper consumption as well as on general increase of the Recognising that the scale of our environmental impacts recycling across the offices. is not as prominent as for some industries, DLA Piper has identified four priority areas where meaningful TRAVEL – travel is an important element of progress can be achieved not only in reducing negative any global business and, as such, is one of the key impacts on the environment but also in addressing contributors to our environmental footprint. opportunities within our value chain to make a positive DLA Piper actively encourages the use of alternative contribution towards greater sustainability. tools for communication and collaboration, promotes greener choice of transportation modes In the past 12 months the firm has continued to actively and is looking to offset carbon emissions associated contribute to international climate policy discussions with unavoidable air travel. and the development of and investment in low-carbon technology and infrastructure. PROCUREMENT – although our supply chain is relatively uncomplicated, we seek to maintain principles of responsible procurement and encourage 1. WITHIN OUR FIRM our suppliers, partners and contractors to subscribe Our overall approach and strategic priorities are to our minimum environmental practices and reflected in the firm’s environmental policy, which requirements. is jointly championed by Simon Levine and Jay Rains, the Co-CEOs and Global Board members with responsibility for the environmental challenges. In setting environmental expectations for the firm, and by the functional groups (Including Operational the Co-CEOs are supported by the Global Sustainability Risk, Procurement, Property and Workplace) for Initiative (GSI) in formulating the long-term strategies day-to-day implementation of the core requirements. 14 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact The GSI is governed by a cross-functional committee Our environmental management system has been sponsored by the Global Board. Its main focus in on ISO 14001 compliant and independently certified formulating a strategic and integrated approach on across our global business for the past nine years. managing the environmental impacts and opportunities We are one of very few global law firms to achieve throughout our value chain. The progress against worldwide certification and will continue to maintain and long-term targets is reviewed quarterly by the improve our systems in line with changing certification Global Board. requirements and stakeholder expectations. SUMMARY OF OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 3 YEAR TARGETS 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS (2016-2018) Further 10% reduction The energy consumption across the firm dropped by 13.5% against in energy use across the 2012 levels. The key efficiency gains have stemmed from a targeted global firm to achieve a approach to identifying reduction opportunities through improved total reduction target of Energy building management systems and investment in efficient and novel 25% against 2012 levels. technologies. Year on year increase in The number of offices sourcing electricity from the green energy the number of offices using providers increased to twenty eight. green energy. We continued our focus on improving our record management system Further 7% reduction in (specifically document management, retention and digitisation) and paper consumption across legal technology, including remote access to project files. the global firm to achieve a total reduction target of These initiatives resulted in a reduction in paper consumption of Waste 25% against 2012 levels. 25.5% across the firm against 2012 levels. Year on year increase in Recycling improved across all categories of “office recyclables”, recycling levels. including paper (100%), printer toners (96%), plastic and glass bottles (97%) and cardboard (95%). The firm continues exploring options to reduce travel with particular focus on developing communication and collaboration tools as Further increase the use of alternatives to travel. 2016 saw a further increase in the use of Video IT communication systems Conference and Telepresence facilities across the firm, with an increase as an alternative to travel. Travel of 17% in ad hoc conferences. Offset GHG emissions Business travel is a significant contributor to our carbon footprint. associated with business In partnership with our global travel service providers, we have set travel. up a robust monitoring system in support of our carbon offsetting commitment and will finalise the offset options later this year. Embed annual sustainability Our key focus is on engaging strategic suppliers and contractors to reporting across high risk effect the change and form partnerships for better environmental and strategic suppliers using wider sustainability performance. Strategic suppliers have been defined Procurement Supplier Portal and publically as those with significant financial scope and high risk in areas of human disclose key performance rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In 2016 we have matrix by 2018. identifies 8 suppliers that fit this category. www.dlapiper.com | 15 These priority issues were also a driving consideration in procurement policy and further roll-out of our Supplier the development of DLA Piper sustainability framework Portal have provided us with the tools to enhance for the office fit-outs. This initiative began with oversight and engagement on this issue. developing a minimum environmental requirements for Environmental sustainability is a core focus of the design and set out for our new office in London and our sustainable procurement strategy. Capturing now evolved into an integrated framework requirements performance data on key issues such as carbon emissions for the workplace sustainability (energy efficiency, and environmental management systems and governance wellbeing, use of ethical and sustainable materials, waste, is a fundamental part of understanding the potential risks technology, contractors, etc.). While this initiative and opportunities for proactive engagement through our started in 2016, the framework development and trial will procurement processes. be ongoing throughout 2017-18 and implementation will be prioritised for new offices and upcoming upgrades. As we increase the scope of our data capture and dialogue across our supply chain we can make Additional focus in 2016 was on improving environmental a significant positive difference in minimising practices and reducing the footprint of our internal environmentally detrimental practices and encouraging and external events such as conferences, lectures, a move towards more sustainable practices. DLA Piper promotional and charitable events – from risk awareness will be undertaking extensive direct engagement with training for the event organisers to implementing suppliers on our shared opportunities for improvement sustainable event management practices. This initiative in these areas throughout 2017. will continue in 2017 as we plan to introduce a performance management system and share valuable lessons learned across various offices. 4. THROUGH OUR ADVICE TO CLIENTS Following the December 2015 Paris Agreement on 2. WITHIN THE LEGAL SECTOR climate change, we have seen a significantly ramped up scale of climate-related national and regional DLA Piper has maintained a leadership role within the initiatives, ever greater changes affecting the core legal sector on addressing environmental issues. We are business processes (i.e. management of risks, emergency a founding member of the Legal Sustainability Alliance preparedness, procurement and contract management, (LSA), an inclusive movement of legal firms and related etc) as well as a further shift in infrastructure, energy organisations committed to working collaboratively to generation and transportation opportunities. This fasttake action to improve the environmental sustainability evolving landscape brings a unique set of challenges for all of their operations and activities. our clients, private businesses and public sector The members benefit not only from reporting and organisations alike. benchmarking their environmental performance but also DLA Piper is a leader in the field of climate change, actively learn from shared sustainability best practices providing a strong foundation to manage our client’s and pit-falls from their peers. present and future climate change needs in any country. This positive and mutually beneficial collaboration model Our multilingual, multidisciplinary group delivers climate is now firmly established in the UK, Australia (Australian change advice in complimentary practice areas, including Legal Sector Alliance) and in the US through a partner energy, projects and finance, commercial, real estate, organisation, the Law Firm Sustainability Network. environmental, regulatory and government affairs, insurance, investment funds, corporate, mergers and 3. IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN acquisitions and tax law. We are committed to achieving the highest standards of sustainable procurement together and in partnership with our extended supply chain. Our sustainable 16 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact and UNFCCC agreements. We regularly partner with leading international organisations to support dialogue and analysis of these issues. An example of this is the We advise on climate change legislation firm’s involvement in producing the report “The Paris and energy efficiency measures such as Agreement – What it Means for Business”, which was the Carbon Reduction Commitment launched at the Business and Climate Summit in London. Energy Efficiency Scheme, Climate Change We are also at the forefront of the renewable energy Agreements and the EU Emission Trading market, advising companies and financiers across the Scheme. renewable energy spectrum, including hydro, energy-fromWe provide advocacy, counseling and waste, solar, on and off-shore wind, biomass and biofuels. transactional support to help clients navigate the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, 5. THROUGH OUR PRO BONO PROJECTS California’s AB32 cap-and-trade program, voluntary carbon markets, and other For a number of years we have supported countries national and sub-national initiatives. during the international climate change negotiations Conference of Parties (CoP) of the United Nations We advise clients and negotiate transactions Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) for carbon credits in compliance and and at the Meeting of Parties of the Kyoto Protocol voluntary markets. (KP). We assisted a number of countries to negotiate the We counsel clients in the emergent area of historic Paris Agreement on climate change in 2015 and climate change legal risk. maintained this support in 2016. We work closely with our clients to We have supported countries during the Cartagena develop strategic climate plans, identify Dialogue, a recurring event which brings together carbon burden, risks and opportunities and climate negotiators and government officials from around prepare companies for integration into a 40 nations to meet outside of the formal UN process to carbon-constrained world. discuss climate strategy prior to the UN negotiations. We advocate on behalf of clients interests In order to help tackle the illegal wildlife trade, we have before international climate change and long been in partnership with the Royal Foundation ozone conferences. of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry on behalf of the United for Wildlife partnership. We represent countries at international Although 179 countries are party to the Convention on climate negotiations. International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), the illegal trade in wildlife has continued to proliferate. It is the third largest illegal business DLA Piper is also involved in various projects to deliver behind only drugs and weapons. During the course of Low Carbon and Environmental Goods and Services our partnership, we have worked to produce research as part of urban regeneration initiatives and the firm reports that provide an overview of the legal frameworks expects to provide a growing contribution to these in the surrounding wildlife trade in 26 jurisdictions. We are coming years. now offering concentrated assistance to a number of Our firm regularly produces thought leadership research priority jurisdictions in Africa and Asia to assist them and hosts events for clients detailing emerging policy and in strengthening and enforcing legislation. We have also regulatory changes related to climate change, including partnered with another law firms to undertake in depth work on emerging international issues such as Brexit work on rhino protection in Namibia. www.dlapiper.com | 17 WORKING AGAINST V CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. DLA Piper adheres to the highest regulatory and professional standards in order to protect our business, our reputation and our clients. We are known as thought leaders on issues of antibribery and corruption and regularly host events for our DLA Piper has a strict anti-bribery clients and other stakeholders outlining and promoting and corruption policy which applies best practice on this subject. to all our people globally. We will Our global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy sets out not directly or indirectly engage in the approach and expectations we place on our own bribery or corruption in any form people as well as on our business partners. and have a zero tolerance approach to breach whether it involves private This policy is an integral part of our risk management individuals or public officials. We will and compliance framework. The framework incorporates never accept, solicit, agree to receive, policies, procedures, guidelines and a Compliance promise, offer or give a bribe, Handbook which covers a wide range of issues, including facilitation payment, kickback or anti-money laundering, sanctions and ethics. other improper payment. Our Whistleblowing Policy and associated procedures For this purpose ‘bribe’ means a may be used for reporting breaches on a confidential or financial or other advantage, intended anonymous basis. to induce a person to give improper Our publicly stated policy on anti-bribery and assistance in breach of their duty, corruption is reinforced through Board sponsorship or to otherwise influence someone and commitment to the policy and related procedures. with the underlying purpose of These procedures include: obtaining/retaining business, or an advantage in the course of business, ■ training and communication and ‘facilitation payments’ are – mandatory e-learning is completed by all of our small bribes made to government people and forms part of our new-starter induction or public officials to speed up programme; routine administrative processes or – training delivered to members of the Board and other actions. Executive; All of our activities are managed in full – training incorporated into the firm’s management compliance with this policy and with academy and other formal training programmes; all applicable legal and regulatory anti-bribery and corruption ■ incorporating consideration of bribery and corruption obligations. We expect our business risk into our new client due diligence and on-going partners to have similar policies monitoring processes and procedures; which apply to all dealings with, on ■ a clause in our standard terms of business with behalf of, or involving DLA Piper. clients which sets out our anti-bribery and corruption policy and our expectations of our clients; 18 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact ■ supplier due diligence processes operated by our firms who work together and with DLA Piper to provide central procurement team, and a clause in all our coordinated service delivery in countries where our firm supplier contracts setting out our anti-bribery and does not have its own offices. The relationship firms corruption policy and expectation of our suppliers; involved fall into two distinct groups: and ■ Brand Integrated firms – which are required to ■ procedures and controls which address: implement the full DLA Piper anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures as described above; – working with Governments and public officials; and – the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality; ■ DLA Piper Africa member firms – who are required to – the giving of political and charitable donations; and implement the DLA Piper anti-bribery and corruption – working with third parties. policy and specially tailored procedures and training within their firms. During 2016 we embarked on initiatives to develop the approach to anti-corruption amongst the DLA Piper The roll out programme is on-going and will be relationship firms – our community of independent law completed during 2017. www.dlapiper.com | 19 V1 FURTHER INFORMATION For additional information about DLA Piper’s approach and activities related to the UN Global Compact Principles, please refer to the following: Responsible Business https://www.dlapiper.com/en/uk/aboutus/ Diversity and Inclusion http://www.dlapiperdiversity.com/ Environmental Sustainability https://www.dlapiper.com/en/uk/aboutus/corporateresponsibilityfolder/aboutuscontentpagefolder/sustainability/ Pro Bono http://www.dlapiperprobono.com/ UNICEF Partnership https://www.unicef.org.uk/corporate-partners/dla-piper/ We welcome any queries or comments you may have on this report. Please address them to: NICOLAS PATRICK Partner, Head of Responsible Business 20 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact www.dlapiper.com DLA Piper is a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further details of these entities can be found at www.dlapiper.com. This publication is intended as a general overview and discussion of the subjects dealt with, and does not create a lawyer-client relationship. It is not intended to be, and should not be used as, a substitute for taking legal advice in any specific situation. DLA Piper will accept no responsibility for any actions taken or not taken on the basis of this publication. This may qualify as “Lawyer Advertising” requiring notice in some jurisdictions. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Copyright © 2017 DLA Piper. All rights reserved. | APR17 | 3216737
