Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) 2016 Editor: Christina Schönenberger Version: 1.00 Date: 03/13/2017 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To our stakeholders: Over more than 80 years SFS has evolved from a family-owned Swiss company into an international group. However the strong roots are still in the St. Gall Rhine valley and the SFS values are transferred to all sites within the group by an appropriate management model. Sustainability in its actions has been the core driver of SFS since its foundation. For SFS sustainability means partnership with  customer  employees  community  supplier Therefore the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact have been implicitly part of the SFS business model since its first days and have a tradition of decades. I am pleased to confirm that SFS reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions and achievements to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Since the SFS Group Sustainability Report as a part of the Annual Report 2016 (available on the SFS Group website annualreport.sfs.biz) is structured based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, it is directly used for this annual Communication on Progress as well. Thereby a consistent information towards our shareholders and stakeholders shall be achieved. Sincerely yours, Jens Breu CEO SFS Group AG Version 1.00 dated 13.03.2017 2 SFS Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2016 Sustainability Human rights Key topics identified – – Compliance processes and organization strengthened We identified the headline topics for SFS – Group's sustainable development by engagThe Corporate Principles and the Code of Conduct are two key documents on the subject of sustainability at SFS. The ing in an active dialog with our stakeholders Corporate Principles sets out our common values, while and outlined them in the materiality assessthe Code of Conduct defines the basic rules by which we ment. abide in our business activities. The necessary compliance processes and organizational structures were also institutAdoption of GRI G4 Guidelines ed with the adoption of the Code of Conduct in 2014. In – 2016, considerable attention was devoted to strengthenSustainability as we understand it comprises both environing those early-stage structures. This goal was reached, mental sustainability and social responsibility, and it has evidenced not least by the successful completion of our been part of our corporate DNA from the very beginning. compliance-reporting during the past year. SFS has estabOur corporate culture and business strategy are governed lished effective structures for reporting suspected breachby a long-term outlook and a holistic, integrative approach es of the Code of Conduct. In 2017, the employee training that is based on partnership and trust. program in support of the Code of Conduct, including the program's e-learning tools, will be updated and rolled out Sustainability became an integral part of our annual reportworldwide. ing with the publication of the 2015 annual report. The sustainability report for that year was based on the principles of Based on the compliance testing results reported as of 30 the UN Global Compact, to which SFS has been a signatory September 2016, there is no need to take immediate action since 2010. These principles are human rights, labor, enviwithin the area of human rights; no cases of discrimination, ronment and anti-corruption. for example, were identified. We are an inter­nationally active company that employs people of different nationalities, This year's sustainability report covers these topics and a religious faiths and ethnicities. This workforce diversity ofreview of the latest developments in each area is given in fers many advantages, such as the opportunity to work on the first section of this report. heterogeneous teams, to gain exposure to a diverse range of standpoints, and to learn from colleagues of different In future reporting periods, however, this report will folbackgrounds. It furthers the company's development in low the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by a very meaningful way. Building on the importance of diGRI (Global Reporting Initiative). A materiality assessment versity, a diversity initiative will be launched in 2017 with forms the basis of GRI G4-compliant sustainability reportthe objective of increasing the awareness and appreciation ing. Within the scope of this assessment, the topics that of workforce diversity. This program will serve to directly matter the most with respect to SFS's sustainable develcounteract the risk of discrimi­nation. opment were identified by engaging in an intensive dialog with key stakeholders. The materiality assessment is preUN Global Compact supported by suppliers sented in the second section of this report. – SFS Group updated its procurement terms and conditions in 2015. All suppliers to the Group are now required to have adopted their own codes of conduct, based in essence on the standards contained in the UN Global Compact. In 2016, considerable progress was made in rolling out the updated procurement terms and conditions. As mentioned in the 2015 sustainability report, several audits of our suppliers were conducted within the scope of our participation in BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative). SFS Group AG – Annual report 2016 34 Sustainability Labor fourth in its category. Employees were asked to rate various aspects related to their job, including the work they – do, work structures and processes, collaboration, change management, supervisory leadership, employee developVocational education programs made even more ment opportunities, and pay. These good rankings are all attractive the more remarkable considering that various short-term – measures had been taken before the survey was conductAs announced in the previous year, various measures were ed to counter the sudden appreciation of the Swiss franc taken during the year under review to expand and intenthat demanded significant concessions from employees, sify vocational training activities at our international sites including working longer hours and cuts in holiday entitlein the US and Germany. For the first time, a group of our ment. SFS is pleased with the good results of this survey. apprentices had the opportunity to spend several weeks at We will now engage in a dialog with employees to explore the Medina, US, factory as part of their vocational training. measures for improvement. Interaction with employees, This allowed them to gather valuable international experithe constant pursuit of improvement and the advancement ence and the attractiveness of our vocational education proof an attractive workplace environment are important to us. grams will be further enhanced. In 2017, other apprentices will be given the opportunity to spend eight weeks at the Medina factory during the summer holidays, act as ambassadors and demonstrate the advantages of the vocational training within the SFS Group. With respect to internal training and development, a new International Leadership Development Program (ILDP) was launched. Line and site managers and specialists are the addressees of this program. Fostering intercultural cooperation within SFS Group is an important aspect of the ILDP. This multi-module program is being conducted in China, Germany and Switzerland. In the 16th Swiss Employer Award, the largest survey of its kind in Switzerland, SFS achieved a strong second place in the Distribution & Logistics segment and Services. The last time SFS participated in the survey, in 2014, it was placed The positive experiences with the dual system of vocational education and training in Switzerland are now being transferred to Medina (US). An exchange program has been set up so apprentices from Switzerland can gather valuable international work experience in the US. – Selected employee key figures of SFS in Switzerland Education and training, in particular the vocational training, are crucial to secure the required social and professional competencies in the long run. Unit 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Number of employees Number (headcount) 2,321 2,292 2,337 Whereof female employees Number (headcount) 446 437 459 Share in % 19.2 19.1 19.6 Whereof apprentices Number (headcount) 153 152 157 Share in % 6.6 6.6 6.7 Fluctuation Share in % 6.0 5.1 6.0 Training and eductaion per employee Days 4.2 3.8 4.3 SFS Group AG – Annual report 2016 35 Sustainability Environment Anti-corruption – – All sites in the Automotive division now ISO 14001 Anti-corruption policies implemented certified – – An anti-corruption policy has been drawn up alongside the Our goal of ISO 14001 certification for our plant in MediCode of Conduct to raise awareness of corruption and enna (USA) as announced in 2015 was achieved according to courage employees to prevent and report acts of corrupplan. All the operating sites in the Automotive division are tion. Implementation of the policy with effect from 1 Janunow ISO 14001 certified. Our next goal is to have the operary 2016 was supported by an e-learning program that had ating sites at other divisions certified. In addition, a quality, to be completed by all staff working in or for management, environment and safety report containing the environmensales/marketing, procurement and finance/controlling units. tal key performance indicators was issued by every relevant This action ensures that all employees who are likely to be site for the first time. Progress monitoring and the definition confronted with corruption or bribery have been suitably inof objectives are performed during the annual management formed and are aware of the risks. reviews. All these employees completed the e-learning program by The production or procurement of energy from renewable 30 September 2016. The related discussions on gifts and sources is a key criterion of infrastructure projects. A solar invitations drew special interest. Newcomers to the comPV system was installed on the roof of a factory building in pany in the areas concerned will also be asked to complete Heerbrugg in recent years, for example, and most of the inthe training program, and there are plans to incorporate the stallation work was performed by SFS apprentices. During issue into a standardized international HR process for onthe year under review, the third and final stage was comboarding new employees. pleted, adding an additional 691 MWh in renewable energy generation capacity. Total capacity of the photovoltaic system now stands at 1.9 GWh, which is enough to provide electricity for about 400 households. It is also noted that, in keeping with SFS Group's commitment to value creation, numerous innovative products were developed and manufactured in 2016 that created value for our customers and end-users by improving energy ­efficiency or enhancing comfort and convenience or safety, for example. A relevant group of employees were briefed on our anti-corruption policies through an e-learning program. – SFS Group AG – Annual report 2016 36 Sustainability Materiality assessment The business's perspective was defined by interviewing every member of the Group Executive Board. SFS Group – employees were represented by the employees representative committee, which represents the interests of the Intensifying our dialog with stakeholders Group's employees in Switzerland. – SFS traditionally maintains a close dialog with its various Out of the total 56 GRI G4 themes, we have selected 14 stakeholders. To push forward with sustainability reportrelevant topics. Subsequently, in twenty-six interviews the ing along GRI G4 lines, we have intensified the dialog. The six most relevant topics for a sustainable development at main goal this year was to develop the materiality assessSFS were identified. This dialog with our stakeholders will ment outlined above, as it is a key GRI requirement. The continue and will be expanded in the years to come, which matrix compares the business perspective, represented by will help to broaden the foundation of the materiality asthe Group Executive Board, with the perspectives of other sessment process and facilitate its further development. internal and external stakeholders, which then provides the basis for identifying the sustainability issues the most releIn a first step designed to ensure that the information colvant to the organization as well as potential measures. lected in 2016 would be as relevant as possible, conversations took place with key customers and suppliers of the The first step was a situational assessment to identify the Engineered Components segment (Automotive, Industrimost important stakeholder groups for SFS. These stakeal and Electronics divisions). This segment accounted for holder groups are: more than 50% of sales and more than two-thirds of the Group's operating profit in 2015. – Customers – Suppliers The perspectives of the various stakeholder groups were – Employees then consolidated and compared with the perspective of – Investors SFS's Group Executive Board (see page 38). – Board of Directors – Educational institutions – Media Discussions with various stakeholders clarified the most important themes regarding sustainability. – SFS Group AG – Annual report 2016 37 Sustainability Materiality matrix of the SFS Group The materiality matrix shown here was adopted by the Group Executive Board of SFS on 7 December 2016. There is a striking and very welcome similarity in how the areas 3 1 are seen by the Group Executive Board and by the various stakeholders, with near-diagonal matrix entries. assessment of importance by stakeholders 2 4 These six red marked topics positioned in the top right of the diagram are the most important ones for sustainable 5 development at SFS: 6 7 1 Customer satisfaction 8 Our top priority is to add value for our customers. Confirmation of goal achievement is an indicator of customer 9 13 satisfaction. 12 11 2 Value creation and distribution to stakeholders for example, in the payment of salary, dividends to 10 shareholders, taxes to the public sector, etc. 14 This measure essentially describes the partnership between the company and society and the different stakeholders. The commitment to fair partnerships is part of assessment of importance by management the SFS DNA and is at the same time an integral part of our Corporate Principles. Most important topics for a sustainable 3 Occupational health and safety development of SFS Occupational health and safety is crucial to the success 1 Customer satisfaction of a manufacturing company where the performance 2 Economic value creation and distribution and prosperity rely entirely on a highly motivated workto stakeholders force. SFS Group has already achieved a high level with 3 Occupational health and safety respect to occupational health and safety. However, the 4 Regular performance and career development high priority that is assigned to this topic is also an inspireviews ration to seek further improvement. 5 Programs for skill management and lifelong learning 4 Regular performance and career development 6 Training and education reviews 5 Programs for skill management and lifelong Further relevant topics learning 7 Ensuring non-discrimination 6 Training and education 8 Anti-corruption measures 9 Compliance with environmental laws and As already mentioned, the company's employees are regulations mainly responsible for the sustainable, successful de10 Effluents velopment of SFS. Accordingly, tools for regular employ11 Emissions ee assessment and career development are rated very 12 Overall environmental protection expenditures highly by the Group Executive Board and the majority of and investment the stakeholder groups. SFS already invests heavily in 13 Energy consumption by company, suppliers education (see page 34), and it views the positive rating and customers as an incentive to continue resolutely along that path. 14 Complaints and litigations about environmental impact SFS Group AG – Annual report 2016 38 Sustainability Priorities for future reporting defined – Management and stakeholders consider ecological aspects as relevant, but attach noticeably less importance compared with other featured areas. This has to do with the characteristics of the products, which tend to be small, and the existing implementation of efficient manufacturing processes (cold forming in particular). The focus in future will be on the six topics assessed in the materiality assessment. Specific objectives are to be defined and action plans developed for each area in 2017. The various instruments used for regular performance reviews and career development purposes are of central importance in our extensive efforts to develop our employees' social and professional skills. – SFS Group AG – Annual report 2016 39 Sustainability
