2014 2016 01 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Key highlights Chairman’s statement CEO’s statement 02 ABOUT KCB GROUP Who we are What we do Corporate governance Risk management 03 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Sustainability at KCB Sustainability vision Approach to sustainability Sustainability governance structure 04 OUR MATERIAL ISSUES Capacity building Responsible lending Employee development Environmental impact Ethics & integrity Community investment Energy conservation Security Diversity Financial inclusion 05 GRI INDICATOR TABLE General standard disclosures Specific standard disclosures Financial service disclosures T OR R EP HIS TT OU AB About this report We have leveraged the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 We at KCB Group Limited are pleased to present our reporting guidelines (2013) and the GRI Financial Services 2014 2016 sustainability report. This report explores Sector Supplement, supported by our internally developed our sustainability performance for the period January 1, policies. Our disclosures in relation to the GRI G4 indicators 2014 to December 31, 2016. Any material events after are available in the annex of this report. the cut-off date and up to March 31, 2017 are included as applicable. This report should be read in conjunction with For brevity and convenience, KCB Group Limited is referred the many other supplementary reports and reviews we to as “KCB” or “the Group” or “we” or “us” in this report. produce to cater for the needs of our diverse stakeholder groups, all of which are publicly available on our website at: To download a copy of the report please visit the KCB www.kcbbankgroup.com. website at: www.kcbbankgroup.com. Scope and reporting framework In general, unless indicated otherwise, this report covers Contact Us: our operations in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan. The boundary of the report Company Name: includes all KCB operations as defined, and we have KCB Group Limited included all material aspects with regard to financial, economic, social and environmental performance. Address of Headquarters: Kencom House, Moi Avenue, Nairobi, Kenya It should be noted that this report contains some forwardlooking statements. Such statements may be based on a Post Code: 48400-00100 GPO number of uncertainties related to the future, and therefore Tel: +254 (20) 3270000 | +254 (711) 087000 | + 254 (732) actual performance and results may vary. 187000 SMS: 22522 Within the report, we focus on the most material aspects Website: www.kcbbankgroup.com of our business. We consider an issue to be material if it Email: Contactcentre@kcb.co.ke is likely to impact our ability to achieve our strategy, and to remain commercially sustainable and socially relevant Contact Department: over a short, medium or long term period. We also take into Office of Corporate and Regulatory Affairs account the factors that affect the economic growth and social stability of the countries and regions in which we do We value your views and feedback on our sustainability business. These issues are detailed in the material issues reporting. For any inquiries on matters related to this report, section within this report. please contact us at sustainability@kcb.co.ke 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Report boundary Subsidiaries • Ethiopia • KCB Foundation • Tanzania • KCB Insurance • South Agency Sudan • KCB Capital • Uganda 265 branches • Rwanda • Burundi 7 Countries in Total employees East Africa 962 ATMs 7,192 Number of customers in millions Total equity in billions 12.3 vs 10.1 2016 2015 Listings • Nairobi Securities Exchange Ksh. 96.5 vs Ksh. 81.2 • Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange 2016 2015 • Uganda Stock Exchange • Rwanda Stock Exchange 5 Y AR U MM IV ES UT EC EX 01 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 01 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 7 KEY Y AR U MM IV ES UT EC HIGHLIGHTS EX 01 Financial Performance Item Change 2016 (Ksh) 2015 (Ksh) 2014 2014 (Ksh) (Ksh) Total Assets Up 7% 595.2 billion 558 billion 490.3 billion Net Loans and Advances Up 11% 385.7 billion 346 billion 284 billion Customer Deposits Up 6% 448.2 billion 424.4 billion 377.3 billion Shareholder Funds Up 19% 96.6 billion 81 billion 75.6 billion Long Term Debt Funding Up 14% 23 billion 20 billion 12.7 billion Profit after Tax Up 1% 19.7 billion 19.6 billion 16.8 billion Net Interest Income Up 20% 47 billion 39.2 billion 35.9 billion Fees and Commissions Down 11% 12.6 billion 14.2 billion 12.7 billion Information technology advancements Network spread • 2016 – Successfully upgraded the core • 2016 – 12.5 million customers, up from banking system, T24, within time and 10.1 million in 2015. budget, resulting in increased capacity • 2016 – 10.3 million mobile banking for over 30 million customers. customer accounts (includes KCB mobile • 2016 – 53% of customer interactions on banking, KCB Mbenki and KCB-M-Pesa) mobile banking platforms. up from 6.5 million in 2015. • 2016 – 13,562 agency outlets up from 11,948 in 2015. Digital payments Youth agenda • 2016 – 90% of loans processed on • 2016 – 2,234 students were enrolled in mobile banking platforms. the pilot phase of the 2jiajiri programme (a • 2016 – 5.7 million loans (worth wealth and job creation programme of the Ksh. 14 billion) disbursed via KCB KCB Foundation targeting the youth and mobile banking, up from 3.5 million small business owners) in 114 vocational loans (worth Ksh. 8.5 billion) in training centres in 20 counties. 40% female, 2015. 60% male. • 2016 – 5.3 million loans (worth • 2016 – 600,000 new accounts opened for Ksh. 9.9 billion) disbursed via KCBthe youth on Bankika. M-Pesa, up from 3.2 million loans • 2015 – Launch of 2jiajiri programme. (worth Ksh. 6.6 billion) in 2015. • Main revenue collection agent for 5 counties (Kiambu, Nakuru, Mombasa, Kisumu and Meru). New businesses • 2015 – KCB successfully obtained a license to operate a representative office in Customer experience Ethiopia. • 2016 – Customer retention rose 10% • 2014 & 2015 – KCB successfully established from 89% to 99%. Bancassurance, KCB Capital and Islamic • 2016 – Employee satisfaction rose to Banking. 87% from 82%. • 2015 – Launch of the ‘Quest for Purpose’ KCB’s Credit rating at KCB, a flagship brand purpose process. • 2015 – Established a dedicated 24 hour • Moody’s – B1. Contact Centre. • Standard & Poor’s (S&P) – B+/B. • 2015 – Electronic Queueing Management • KCB’s international credit rating is at par System (eQMS) operational in 55 with Kenya’s sovereign credit rating. branches. • Global Credit Ratings Co (GCR) – AA (KE). • 2014 – Established a Customer Experience Division. 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Strategic partnerships • 2016 – Our partnership with Safaricom • 2015 – KCB was part of the Kenya Limited continued to grow and saw us Bankers Association (KBA) working register over 7.8 million customers group that helped constitute the on KCB M-Pesa platform. This has Sustainable Finance Initiative (SFI). facilitated disbursement of Ksh. 9.9 billion in loans to date. • 2015 – Signed up for Green Growth • 2015 – Partnered with the Government Initiative alongside Kenya Association of Kenya to launch Inua Jamii to aid of Manufacturers (KAM) to support the national social protection scheme, transformation of sustainable lifestyles. National Social Safety Net program, being implemented by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Services. • 2014 – Partnered with United States Agency for International Development (USAID) • 2015 – KCB committed to support the and General Electric (GE) to provide health Government of Kenya by funding contractors financing across Kenya. under the Kenya Infrastructure/ Road Annuity Program. 2015 Think Business Banking Awards 2016 Think Business Banking Awards • Winner – Chief Executive of the year • Best Bank in Customer Service • Winner – Best Bank in Mortgage Finance • Best Bank in Asset Finance • Best Bank in Mortgage Finance • Winner – Best Bank in Product Marketing • Best Bank in Product Innovation • Best Bank in Mobile Banking 2016 Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) Sustainable Finance Catalyst Awards Awards 2015 PRSK Awards • New Media Campaign of • Winner Best overall Won the Year, awarded for the • Winner Tier 1 Best practice in #KCBBacktoSchoolCampaign sustainable finance • Overall Campaign of the Year • Winner – Sustainability through • Sponsorship campaign of the year policy & governance awarded for KCB Foundation Mifugo • Winner – Case study on bank ni Mali project operations (green policy/ green • Social Responsibility Campaign of the branch/ green headquarters) Year awarded to KCB Foundation 2016 PRSK Awards 2015 The Banker Africa Awards • Winner, Consumer Relations • Best Regional Bank Campaign of the Year – Lions’ Den • Best Commercial Bank • Most Socially Responsible Bank 2016 The Banker Africa Awards • Best retail bank in East Africa 2015 The Euro Money Awards • Best commercial bank in Kenya • Best Bank in Kenya • Best commercial bank in East • Best Bank in Africa Africa • CEO of the year 2016 OLX SOMA awards • Winner, Social Corporate – Financial Services Award 9 GROUP CHAIRMAN’S Y AR U MM IV ES UT EC STATEMENT EX 01 “Sustainability has the power to create immense value. We have people who can greatly impact the future of generations to come through sustainability.” How does KCB’s sustainability strategy fit into the vision of the Group? Sustainability is an important part of how we do business. It directly informs our growth strategy. In 2016 we continued with the implementation of our revised Group Strategy which was re-launched in 2015, whereby we redefined our purpose to ‘Simplifying your world; enabling your progress’. Simply put, we are committed to ensuring our customers get services in the quickest and shortest possible time by simplifying our processes and being transparent and approachable. We shall enable our clients’ progress by availing resources and creating transformative partnerships aimed at enabling growth and bringing positive change. As we move towards embedding sustainable banking practices, our approved sustainability framework and policy articulate the Group’s four key pillars that drive our current and future sustainability vision. The four pillars are hinged on financial, economic, social and environmental factors. What drives your sustainability focus? success while contributing towards economic and social Our sustainability focus is determined by our corporate development, a healthy environment and a stable society. strategy. Our sustainability agenda has been integrated Throughout the report we have outlined our achievements into our Group Corporate Strategy and contributes towards in these areas to date, and I believe we are on the right our financial, economic, social and environmental growth track. and the maintenance of a stable society in line with our corporate values. At KCB, sustainability makes business What were some of the key KCB sustainability highlights sense and it is mainstreamed into business operations. in 2014 through to 2016? Simply put, it is our way of doing business. As our geographical footprint and network spread continues to increase with the establishment of more branches and What is the progress of the Bank’s sustainability strategic agency outlets in the region, we are cognisant of the need focus to date? to ensure long term business success by contributing to 2016 marked the ninth year since we began implementing the economic, social and environmental stability of the sustainability initiatives as part of our strategy. I am societies we operate in. pleased to report that, over the years, we have made significant progress on our ten point action plan which During the inaugural Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) outlines strategic areas of focus for KCB in its journey 2016 Sustainable Finance Catalyst Awards for banks and towards becoming a sustainable financial services other financial sector players that have demonstrated institution. The action plan, described further in this leadership and innovation in sustainability, KCB won a total report, has seen KCB contribute to long term business of six awards (including best overall award), cementing our leadership role in driving sustainable initiatives. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 As a Bank, we adopted the Sustainable Finance Initiative and expanded our agency network to over 13,500. These (SFI) guiding principles in 2015 having envisioned that the initiatives have gone a long way in ensuring paperless principles outlined in the initiative were consistent with banking, promoting contactless digital payments and our sustainability framework. We continue to equip our reduced our carbon footprint. Further details on these stakeholders with the right capabilities, commitment and partnerships can be found under the community enthusiasm by adopting the industry based Sustainable investment and financial inclusion sections of this report. Finance Initiative (SFI) e-learning platform where we managed a certification score of 84% during the period. The KCB Foundation has also been involved in a number of corporate social responsibility initiatives. Ksh. 438,874,290 Our environmental conservation efforts are aimed at was allocated to the KCB Foundation in 2014 and 2015. protecting our planet and natural resources. During the We continue to focus on enterprise development, to which period, KCB was involved in various activities to promote effect we have rolled out two flagship programmes in these efforts. For example, we have a 100% solar powered livestock development dubbed “Mifugo ni Mali,” and Youth branch in Maasai Mara, our building located in Upperhill empowerment dubbed “2jiajiri”. These programmes Nairobi is a green building, the roll out of internet and address the needs for economic empowerment of our mobile banking has reduced our consumption of paper people in East Africa and through partnerships and reams and we have installed energy efficient lighting with collaborations we shall see the impact of this social motion sensors and LED lighting in some of our branches. investment in the medium term. 2016 witnessed the full integration of our Environmental What is KCB looking forward to going into the future? and Social Management System (ESMS) into our lending I am delighted that sustainability is now part and parcel process, further aligning our key business operations of the way we do business at KCB. We continue to take the with our sustainability framework. A total of 42 socialnecessary steps in training our staff on the implementation environmental assessments were undertaken for facilities of the various sustainability strategies adopted by the worth Ksh. 89 billion. Bank in our operations. Through partnerships with like-minded institutions, we We look forward to entrenching technology and innovation have also been able to contribute to society by providing to drive efficiencies in our operations in order to serve our solutions aimed at enhancing service delivery to citizens customers better with relevant products that meet their in the ongoing devolution process in Kenya. We launched a expectations. This will not only result in the generation programme aimed at facilitating the collection of taxes in of higher growth rates, but also achievement of our some counties. We also introduced cashless payments for sustainability strategic and sustainability initiatives. the transport sector through the multi-functional transit debit card “Pepea card”. To promote financial inclusion, we have developed products and services such as the KCB Ngeny Biwott M-Pesa, mobile banking, internet and agency banking CHAIRMAN 11 Y AR GROUP CEO’S U MM IV ES UT EC EX 01 STATEMENT “In our journey towards prosperity, we at KCB are guided by our purpose of why we exist as an organization; Simplifying your world, enabling your progress. We continue to monitor our financial, economic, social and environmental impact and maintain a stable society in line with the Group’s corporate values of putting the customer first, working together as a team, being professional in everything that we do, willingness to change and caring for the community.” What does Sustainability mean to KCB? As Eastern Africa’s leading financial solutions provider with significant influence on the socio-economic prospects of the region, we owe it to our stakeholders to be considerate of the impact our operations have not only to our profitability, but also on the society and the environment we operate in. In this respect, we view sustainability as a key driver of our corporate strategy and a means for creating a competitive advantage to and for our stakeholders. What are your sustainability goals? manage our energy consumption through utilization of Our sustainability initiatives have been embedded green energy and intelligent building technologies; and into our business as part of our long term strategic ensure we maintain state-of-the-art security measures on vision. Measurement is an important component of our our operations and continually monitor our business for management approach as we are constantly looking for weakness and breaches. opportunities to improve our performance. In this respect, our sustainability performance is measured against our 10 In the long term, we plan to ensure that diversity is a key point action plan that provides our short, medium and long determinant of our decisions with a focus on attracting and term targets. retaining women at the higher management levels of the organization, and promote financial inclusion in our region In the short term, we aim to boost our capacity building by adoption of technology and embracing innovation to proposition on sustainability matters; enhance our lending deliver services to all marginalized communities. model through responsible lending practices; develop our employees and build a critical human capital mass to drive What are the most significant highlights on sustainability the business in the years to come and implement projects since the last report? to drive down energy, transport, water and waste costs I am very proud of what we have accomplished in the period across the Group. since our last report for 2013. None of our achievements would be possible without the dedication of our employees— In the medium term, we are looking to enhance the external more than 7,000 across the seven countries in which we compliance process and improve transparency while operate. Beyond the daily improvements we make around adopting zero-tolerance to unethical behaviour; undertake our operations, the most important changes relate to our analysis of community investment programmes to identify ability to have a positive impact on our society, economy value at stake, benefits delivered and opportunities; and environment. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 2015 saw the adoption of the Sustainable Finance Initiative The Group is planning to release its first True Value (SFI) Guiding Principles by the banking industry in Kenya Report in the year 2017. The purpose of this report is to through the umbrella body, the Kenya Bankers Association create value to all our stakeholders through the various (KBA). As KCB, we are proud to have been associated with products and services in our business. This monetization this initiative as one of the 12 banks selected in conjunction methodology will assess earnings, economic value add, with the KBA Secretariat to help constitute these principles social externalities, environmental externalities and which will go a long way in guiding a good balance between quantify them into financial earnings. business goals, the economy’s development priorities and socio-environmental concerns. We will continue entrenching our Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) into our financing In 2015, we launched our enterprise development decisions for lending to Corporate and small and mediumprogramme, 2jiajiri, expected to benefit at least 500,000 sized enterprise (SME) clients. In 2017, this process will entrepreneurs in 5 years, thereby creating at least 2.5 also be implemented in micro-lending. million direct and indirect jobs. The main objective of the programme is to provide the beneficiaries with vocational We are committed to being a sustainability leader by and enterprise development skills necessary to drive contributing to the green economy which is new to employment and wealth creation in selected sectors the industry. We plan to partner as an industry to raise such as agricultural enterprise, automotive engineering, Green Bonds (issued to fund projects that have a positive construction, beauty and domestic services environmental impact). The Group is also looking at raising funds from the Global Climate Fund to support What do you look forward to in the future? some of the green financing projects such as Mifugo in For many years now, we have continued to innovate and Mali, agribusiness and Inua Jamii. improve our operations in a bid to make meaningful progress on our sustainability journey. It is our belief that these efforts, combined with continuous improvement towards our goals, will raise our Going forward, we are planning to align our sustainability sustainability performance and help all of our stakeholders strategy to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). understand our intense desire for continued progress. We These are a set of 17 global goals and 169 objectives recognize the importance of our work for the future of our that replaced the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) business and the communities we serve and we are ready agreed upon by the United Nations (UN) member states, to deliver on our promise to our stakeholders. ranging from social and economic issues to be achieved by the year 2030. Joshua Oigara GROUP CEO 13 P OU GR CB TK OU AB 02 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 02 ABOUT KCB GROUP 15 P WHO OU GR CB U TK BO 02 A WE ARE KCB is the oldest financial services institution in Eastern Africa having been established in 1896 in Zanzibar before opening a branch in Kenya 8 years later. Over the years, the Group has grown and spread its wings to Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, South Sudan and Ethiopia. Today KCB has the largest branch network in the Region with 265 branches, 962 ATMs and 13,562 agents offering banking services on a 24/7 basis in Kenya, Burundi, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda. Our large geographic footprint supports our mission to grow our market share in the African markets. The operations are complemented by mobile and internet banking services and a 24-hour contact centre for our customers to get in touch with us. The Group has a wide network of correspondent relationships totalling to over 200 banks across the globe. Our customers are assured of a seamless facilitation of their international trade requirements wherever they are. Our History 1896 First operations Commenced operations in Zanzibar as a branch of National Bank of India 1904 1957 Merger Kenya market entry Merger between Entrance into the Kenya market National Bank of India and Grindlays to form National and Grindlays Bank 1972 1970 Acquisition Mortgage Acquired Savings and Loan Government of Kenya (Kenya Limited) the largest acquired 100% shareholding. specialist mortgage finance Bank renamed to Kenya company Commercial Bank Limited 1988 1997 KCB Tanzania Government of Kenya Kenya Government Opened first sold 20% of its stake branch in Tanzania on NSE through an IPO 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 2016 Appointed as the first bank receiver of a local Kenyan bank under receivership by Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) with the endorsement of the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) 2015 • KCB was the first Bank in Kenya to issue an integrated report. The Bank also launched KCB M-Pesa and Sahl banking which is governed by Sheriah laws. • KCB Group entered the Ethiopia market via a representative office. 2014 Launch KCB Capital and KCB Insurance launched 2012 2008 KCB Burundi Completed our East T24 Sustainability African Regional Implemented Report Presence with T24 core banking Launched the first opening of KCB system in all KCB Sustainablity Burundi countries of Report KCB Rwanda operations Entrance into Rwanda 2011 Record Profit Posted a record 2007 KCB Uganda Ksh. 15.1 Billion Opened our trading profit first branch in Uganda KCB Foundation 2003 Rebranding Launch of the KCB Foundation Rebranded to KCB Bank Limited 2006 KCB South Sudan Entered the South Sudan market 17 P WHAT OU GR CB U TK BO 02 A WE DO KCB Group operates through its various established subsidiaries across the region. Our products can be broadly categorized as below: Brands Products KCB Bank Personal Business Personal products Business Products • Cub • Business Solutions • Current Accounts • Current Accounts • Me Banking • Simba Savings • Transaction Accounts Core brands • Bankika • Transaction • Fixed Deposits • Advantage Accounts • Commercial Loans • Home Loans • Term Deposits • Special Loan • Diaspora Banking • Tuungane • Unsecured Schemes • Mavuno • Boresha Biashara Personal Loans Flanker brands • Sahl Banking • Community Accounts • Secured Loans • SME Solutions • Mobi-Bank • Quick Serve ATMs • Branches • i-Bank • Contact Centre • Cards Service channels • Mtaani Agents • Me Service Centres (NEW) • Asset Finance • Investment Banking • Treasury Services Specialist • Trade Finance • Insurance Services • Mortgage Services services • Custodial Services • Money Transfer • Islamic Banking Services Shareholders KCB was the first bank in the region to cross list its shares in the stock exchanges of the region, namely: Nairobi Securities Exchange, Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, Uganda Securities Exchange and Rwanda Stock Exchange. Foreign investors have expressed confidence in KCB by buying the Bank's shares, and as of December 31 2016, they owned 29% of the total shares issued. The Government of Kenya through the Principal Secretary to the Treasury of Kenya owns 17.3% of KCB shareholding and is the majority shareholder. 27.16% 26.66% Kenyan Individual Investors Kenyan Institutional Investors 1.77% East African Individual Investors East African Institutional Investors 2.53% Foreign Individual Investors 41.34% Foreign Institutional Investors 0.54% 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Stakeholders We rely on input and support from a variety of internal and external stakeholders for the continued success and sustainability of our business. Our broad base of stakeholders include those we have a direct relationship with, and who we communicate with on a regular basis. These priority stakeholders include investors, employees, customers, regulators, government, and communities. More widely, there are those stakeholders we engage with on specific issues, who have an indirect impact on the business and who may be impacted by our business activities. These stakeholders include suppliers, the media and the civil society. With the evolution of our business strategy, and our continuous drive to understand the dynamic needs and perceptions of all our stakeholders, we are proactive in identifying and responding to misalignments between our actions and our stakeholders’ expectations. To this extent, we have engaged in various stakeholder forums at various levels across the business and have even bigger plans to elevate our level of stakeholder engagement in 2017 and beyond. INVESTORS • Shareholders • Investors COMMUNITIES • Analysts EMPLOYEES • Beneficiaries • Pensionable employees • Corporate Social investment • Contract employees partners • Executives • Media • Advocacy groups KCB's Priority Stakeholders REGULATORS AND GOVERNMENT CUSTOMERS • National Treasury • Retail • Central Banks across the region • Corporate • Kenya Bankers Association • Asset managers • Trustees • Intermediaries • Capital Markets Authorities • Regional Securities Exchanges 19 P CORPORATE OU GR CB U TK BO 02 A GOVERNANCE Overview of Corporate Governance Officer, elected by the Company’s shareholders. The Board practices is accountable to the shareholders for the overall Group Corporate Governance is central to the Group’s approach performance and is collectively responsible for the long toward the enhancement of shareholder value. The term success of the Group. The Board achieves such KCB Board of Directors (“Board”) recognizes that the success by setting appropriate business strategy and maintenance and consistent practice and application of overseeing delivery against the set strategy. It ensures that good corporate governance practices is key to the long the Group manages risks effectively and monitors financial term success of the Group’s business and will enable performance and reporting. the businesses deliver sustainable shareholder value. Group structure KCB Group Limited is registered as a non-operating Over the last three years, the regulators in the countries holding company with effect from January 1, 2016. The in the region in which the Group operates, have enhanced holding company oversees KCB Bank Kenya incorporated regulatory and risk management guidelines. The Group has with effect from January 1, 2016 and all of KCB’s regional fully embraced the changes and remains at the forefront units in Tanzania, South Sudan, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi in adopting best practices in corporate governance and and Ethiopia. It also owns KCB Insurance Agency, KCB risk management in the rapidly evolving financial services Capital, KCB Foundation and all associate companies. business environment. The Holding Company was set up to enhance the Group’s capacity to access unrestricted capital and also enable Throughout the period, the Board and management of the investment in new ventures, achieve operational and Group have continued to comply with these regulations and strategic autonomy for the Group’s operating entities and requirements, including the Companies Act, Banking Act, enhance corporate governance across the Group and Capital Markets Authority, Central Bank of Kenya (being the oversight in management of subsidiaries. primary regulatory authority of the Group and KCB Bank A comprehensive statement of corporate governance, Kenya Limited) and the regulations and requirements of including a detailed description of the Group’s Corporate the countries in which our subsidiaries operate. This has Governance Framework, Board of Directors and senior enabled the Group to undertake, in an effective manner, management, our approach to corporate governance the prudent risk-taking activities which are the basis of our and remuneration and Group shareholding structure, business. are presented in KCB Group 2016 Integrated Report and Financial Statements; page 60 – 68 available on this link: KCB is governed by a Board of Directors (“Directors” or https://ke.kcbbankgroup.com/images/downloads/ “Director”) each of whom is, with the exception of the Integrated_Report_2017.pdf Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is an integral part of our business and is embedded in our business strategy and planning cycle. KCB identifies, monitors and continuously manages various types of risks throughout the Group. We continuously improve our risk visibility and management process on an ongoing basis. Risks are owned and managed by the business units as the first line of defence while the Risk Management function provides oversight as the second line of defence and the Group Internal Audit function maintains an overall assurance role as the third line of defence. Risk Management Policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions, products and services offered. The Group, through its training management standards and procedures aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. Below is an illustration of the interactions and the roles and responsibilities of KCB’s Enterprise Risk Management and related functions. Board of Directors and Senior Executive Management Assert Assure Report Assertion on status of risk exposures Risk Management Division Business Unit Management KCB Group Internal Audit • Policies, governance • Risk identification and • Validation of controls and information flow assessments • Objective review of risk • Risk assessment • Actions to exploit, management process methods reduce, transfer or • Assurance to senior Enable avoid risk Validation and executive • Measurement, • Provide assertions and assurance management and aggregation rules and on risk exposure for reporting board on assertions or tools • Monitor risk exposure each business unit or risk exposure status and report to functional area within board KCB Third Line Second Line First Line Details regarding our Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERM) are presented in the KCB Group 2016 Integrated Report and Financial Statements; pages 20 – 23 available on this link https://ke.kcbbankgroup.com/images/downloads/ Integrated_Report_2017.pdf 21 ITY BIL NA TAI S US R Y OU ATEG R 03 ST 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 03 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 23 ITY BIL NA TAI SUSTAINABILITY S US R Y OU ATEG R 03 ST 03 AT KCB Our business model is focused on sustainable value creation. We exist for our customers and as such we approach all aspects of our business from this perspective. The KCB Corporate Strategic Framework covers the period 2015 – 2019 and focuses on seven key areas of customer experience, network spread, youth agenda, Sustainability framework digital payments, new businesses, robust Information Technology FINANCIAL STABILITY and strategic partnerships. • Economic development Sustainability has become an essential element of competitive • Financial performance advantage, something which our business cannot ignore. It is for this • Sustainable banking products and services reason that our sustainability framework has been integrated into • Embracing technology and innovation our Group Corporate Strategy and contributes towards our financial, • Regulatory compliance economic, social and environmental growth. Sustainability vision ECONOMIC STABILITY Our vision is to grow our existing business competitively in the market • Long-term profitability place and deliver long lasting financial benefits to society. • Risk management and mitigation • Community investment strategy • Market strategy and analysis Approach to sustainability KCB has recognized the role of sustainability within the Group and we have therefore implemented sustainability initiatives and SOCIAL STABILITY embedded them into our business as part of our long term strategic vision. This has been done through our Sustainability Framework • Employee development • Community health and well being which addresses four key areas – financial stability, economic, • Corporate social responsibility environmental and social sustainability. • Enterprise development • Employment practices The purpose of our sustainability framework is to formalize sustainability across the Group and to provide guidelines for the introduction, development, maintenance and implementation of ENVIRONMENTAL STABILITY proactive social and environmental management processes and procedures. • Energy efficiency • Business travel • Resource usage In order to achieve our overall Sustainability Strategy, we have • E-waste developed a 10 point action plan that outlines the various short, • Water management medium and long-term initiatives that we are pursuing. Our strategic • Supply chain progress against this plan is discussed in the subsequent pages of the report. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 The 10 point action plan driving the sustainability agenda Financial inclusion Capacity building Promote financial inclusion Boost our capacity in our region. building proposition. 1 Diversity 10 Responsible lending Ensure diversity is a Responsible lending key determinant of which forms the basis for our decisions. 2 the KCB lending model. 9 3 Employee development Develop employees and build a Security 10 POINT critical human capital mass to Continuous update of IT drive the business in the years security policy. to come. 8 ACTION PLAN 4 Environmental impact Measure our environmental impact and implement projects to drive down energy, transport, water and Energy conservation 7 waste costs across KCB. Manage energy consumption through utilization of green 5 energy and intelligent building technologies. 6 Ethics and Integrity Community investment Enhance the external Undertake analysis of community compliance process and investment programmes to identify improve transparency while value at stake, benefits delivered and adopting zero-tolerance for opportunities. unethical behaviour. Quick-Win Initiatives Medium-Term Initiatives Long-Term Initiatives (Benefits realised within 1-2 years) (Benefits realised within 3-4 years) (Benefits realised in 5+ years) 25 ITY BIL NA TAI S US R Y OU ATEG R 03 ST Sustainability governance structure The Group Sustainability Framework is executed as outlined in the diagram below: Communication Daily Management Oversight Implementation and Monitoring KCB Group Board Chief Operations Officer KCB Legal Division Sustainability Manager Board Strategy Chief Financial Officer KCB Group Corporate Head of Credit/ Social & Committee Communication Chief Information Environmental Manager Department Officer Risk Committee KCB Sustainability Head of Corporate & Risk Division Working Group Regulatory Affairs comprising of Group CEO business unit Director Credit KCB Group Internal representatives on KCB Subsidiary Audit Chief Risk Officer sustainability related Managing Directors matters Director Human Resources Company Secretary • Review, challenge, • Leadership and • Organizing and • Responsible for approve implementation of facilitating an the day to day sustainability the Sustainability effective internal running of all framework and Strategy. and external sustainability strategy. communication programs for • Development strategy on the KCB and key • Ensure resource of innovative KCB Sustainability coordinator with availability for products program to the different units implementation and services stakeholders. in getting the of sustainability that promote periodic reports. strategy. sustainability. • Provide proactive monitoring, • Monitoring persuasive sustainability guidance and initiatives across reporting on the business. the overall sustainability risks 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 KCB Group sustainability journey 2008 The KCB Group formally takes up the Sustainability Agenda by launching the first Sustainability Report 2009 2013 Rolling out of the KCB Launch of Industry Green Agenda as a blue Sustainable Finance Initiative print for addressing the (SFI) Bank’s carbon foot print 2015 The KCB Group Board 2014 approves the Group SEMS policy and the Group Sustainability policy • Approval of the Sustainability Framework & the comprehensive adoption of Social & Environmental Management System (SEMS) • Self Regulation on Industry Code of Ethics 2016 Signing of Code of Ethics by Suppliers 27 ITY BIL NA TAI S US R Y OU ATEG R 03 ST Executive Management Committee views on sustainability at KCB We believe that business is no longer about just making profits but about transforming the lives of communities in markets where we operate. It is our firm conviction that sustainability must go hand in hand with increasing shareholder value and I believe we have found the right balance. We don’t operate in a vacuum but in an environment where we have to ensure that we are a good corporate citizen. Joshua Oigara – Group Chief Executive Officer At the heart of our management approach to operational excellence is customer centricity, robustness and simplicity. As part of enhancing our overall customer experience, we have embarked on various long term strategic investments in order to enhance operational efficiency and make every customer contact a delightful and memorable experience. Samuel Makome – Group Chief Operating Officer We continue to focus on initiatives that will enable us to produce, maintain and access timely and relevant information needed to make informed decisions, monitor performance effectively, conduct reliable analyses and provide for transparent and reliable financial reporting. Lawrence Kimathi – Chief Financial Officer With the stringent regulatory environment in which we operate in, we continue to establish robust governance structures to address the dynamic legal and compliance requirements on an ongoing basis. Our evaluation of board performance this year was quite satisfactory and we look forward to consistently upholding these standards as the Group grows. Joseph Kania – Company Secretary We cannot just add sustainable development to our current list of things to do but must learn to integrate the concepts into everything that we do. Sustainability is not a particular programme, it’s what we do every day, maximizing positive impact and minimizing risks. Rose Kinuthia – Director, Special Projects 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Executive Management Committee views on sustainability at KCB We continuously endeavour to reach out to people who remain unable to participate in the modern economy due to lack of access to financial services. At the same time, continue to monitor risk and take pre-emptive action to adjust our products, services and progress to ensure we do not expose the Group or our customers to undue risks resulting from our lending practices. We have made great strides this year in undertaking social and environmental assessments on our portfolios and seek to further enhance these procedures as we engage more with stakeholders across the region and globally. Apollo Ong’ara – Director, Credit Our human capital is our greatest asset and as such, we continue to focus on setting up platforms and running initiatives aimed at building capacity and developing our existing employees. Over the last two years we have made use of innovative ways to engage and develop our staff and are going to be building on this in the coming years. We are also addressing retention issues with the use of various remuneration strategies such as staff awards and competitive benefits for our staff across the region. Paul Russo – Director, HR Without a vision for sustainable development, we would be limited in achieving our strategic objectives, given the level of influence we have in the societies and environment in which we operate. Our continued focus on our sustainability strategy has and will continue to enable us to grow our existing business competitively in the regional market place and deliver long lasting financial benefits to society. Judith Sidi Odhiambo – Group Head of Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Boosting the economy and empowering people through partnerships is critical to our overall sustainability vision. To achieve our sustainability goals and bring positive change, we continue to build transformative partnerships with several public and private organizations, who share in our vision of sustainable growth, in a variety of sectors from telecommunications, social welfare schemes, education, agriculture, transport and energy. Jane Mwangi – Executive Director, KCB Foundation We strive for financial success while accepting responsibility for our impact on relationships with our diverse group of stakeholders. For this reason, we manage risks within our risk management framework which aligns profit goals with our internal green strategies and policies. Our goal is to make this alignment efficient enough to sustain and grow our business while ensuring we have a positive impact in society and preserve the environment. John Mukulu – Ag. Chief Risk Officer 29 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 04 OUR MATERIAL ISSUES 31 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Our material issues represent the primary risks and opportunities that could have a significant impact on our ability to deliver and create value to our key stakeholders, the social, economic and environmental boundaries within which we operate and which have a direct impact on our future. An issue is material when it has the potential to impact our ability to remain commercially viable and socially relevant to the societies we operate in. Effectively managing our material issues is critical to achieving our strategic objectives. We have over the last few years reassessed and undergone an extensive exercise across the business to identify our material issues that will enable us to achieve our overall sustainability strategy. We have developed a 10 point action plan that outlines the various short, medium and long-term initiatives that form the basis of our material issues. Our approach going forward will be to continuously assess the relevance of these issues to the dynamic nature of our business and update them as need be. 2016 (Ksh Progress against our 10 Point Action Plan 2016 2015 2014 Target 2016 2015 Target Capacity Building Sustainability awareness 80% 30% 10% 90% Number of staff trained on Environmental and Social Risk 3,633 300 5,000 Assessments Number of staff trained on the Industry Sustainable Finance 3,786 5,000 Initiative (SFI) Responsible Lending Number of Social-Environmental Assessments undertaken in 42 41 100 the year Value of facilities that have undergone Social-Environmental 89.1b 98.7b N/A Assessments (in Ksh. Billion) Percentage integration of Environmental and Social Manage100% 100% 100% ment System (ESMS) in the Group Percentage achievement rate on Business Process Reengineering (BPR) implementation i.e. simplification of 100% 50% 100% products and services Cost to Income Ratio (CIR) 47.6% 50% 50% 49% Customer Satisfaction Index 74% N/A 77% 85% Employee Development Employee satisfaction rate (%) 87% 82% 80% 85% Staff attrition rate (%) 4.7% 4.5% 5% <5% Average training days per employee 8.3 7.32 5.7 5 Number of employees who have undergone online 5,506 5,475 6,113 7,723 training 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 2016 2015 2014 Target 2016 2015 Target Environmental Impact ) Adoption of KCB Green Agenda (%) 30% 20% 10% 100% Diesel consumption for generators and fleet (ℓ) Annual 5% 2,937,797 2,227,826 reduction Electricity consumption (MWh) Annual 5% 20,970 13,982 reduction * South Sudan electricity consumption are not disclosed above. This is because the branches in South Sudan are run entirely on generators and hence do not have information on electricity but fuel for generators. Ethics and Integrity Fraud cases 22 33 20 NIL Fraud training (%) 98% 73% 82% 100% Number of fraud cases reported 57 87 111 NIL Percentage completion of annual mandatory Ethics 71% 57% 72% 100% E-Learning course across the Group Number of employee dismissals relating to fraud 31 33 20 NIL Number of successful fraud attempts (incidences) 447 528 267 NIL Number of unsuccessful fraud attempts (incidences) 75 111 87 NIL Number of suppliers signed up to the code of ethics 100 125 Community Investment Number of scholarships awarded under the Scholarship 240 240 240 per year Programme Amount disbursed in the Inua Jamii Program (in Ksh. Millions) 18m 9m NIL 18m Amount allocated to mobilization through partnerships to 166m 268.9m 70m support Livestock Project (in Ksh. Millions) Number of youth upskilled under the Youth project 3,000 10,000 Number of farmers reached under the Mifugo ni Mali project 30,000 26,000 50,000 Percentage spent on procurement local spend 89% 83% 90% 60% Percentage spent on procurement international spend 11% 17% 10% 40% 33 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 2016 2015 2014 Target 2016 2015 Target Energy Conservation Green technology adoption (%) 30% 20% 5% 100% LED Lighting adoption (%) 30% 20% 5% 100% Security Percentage achievement of anti-money laundering 70% 80% 50% 100% awareness across the group Diversity Number of women trained under the Women in Leadership 250 200 100 250 Programme Percentage composition of women on the KCB Board (Group 30% 27% 27% 33% Board and country boards) Percentage composition of women at senior management 30% 27% 27% 50% Financial Inclusion Number of agency banking outlets 13,562 11,948 10,102 12,500 Number of registered mobile banking users (in Ksh. Millions) 3.3m 2m 1m 4m Number of registered KCB M-Pesa users (in Ksh. Millions) 7.8m 4.7m 10m Number of loans processed under mobile banking 5.7m 3.5m 105,857 4m (in Ksh. Millions) Value of loans processed under mobile banking 14b 8.5b 0.598b 12b (in Ksh.Billions) 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 CAPACITY BUILDING Guided by our sustainability framework, we will be developing staff and updating our existing business processes to embed sustainability in everything we do. We support and encourage all employees working across For more information on Kenya Bankers Association the Group to ensure that they have the right capabilities, and the SFI guidelines, please visit their website commitment and enthusiasm to achieve our business goals. https://sfi.kba.co.ke/ Partnership with the Kenya Bankers Training Association (KBA) Once the Sustainable Finance Guiding Principles were KBA is the umbrella body of the banking sub-sector with a adopted, KBA started work on a capacity building program, membership of 42 financial institutions that are licensed including an e-learning platform developed to deepen and regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya. The main an understanding of the concept of sustainable finance, ambition of the Association is to promote industry sustainable development and the role of the banking development and economic growth by engaging the community in achieving such an ideal. The course is government and sector regulator, Central Bank of Kenya, designed for employees of all participating financial on behalf of its members. institutions who have since been encouraged to take it up. As a business, we are focused on creating sustainability In order to guide its member banks in balancing their awareness with our stakeholders. To achieve this, we have business goals with the economy’s development priorities adopted the industry based SFI e-learning platform. and socio-environmental concerns, KBA directed a Working Group consisting of the KBA Secretariat and 12 banks to 3,736 assist in the development of the Sustainable Finance Initiative (SFI) Guiding Principles. KCB was one of the 12 banks selected in conjunction with the KBA Secretariat to members of staff help constitute the SFI Principles. trained on SFI The Guiding Principles, which were drawn and harmonized from several best practices include Financial Returns versus Economic Viability, Growth through Inclusivity & Innovation, We anticipate that this number will continue to Managing & Mitigating Associated Risks, Resource Scarcity grow to meet our target of 5,000 employees. and Choice and Business Ethics & Values. These industry Guiding Principles can be relied on by banks to underpin Over the last three years, we have also continued with sustainability in their day to day operations and decision the implementation of our Environmental and Social making. Management System (ESMS). A total of 3,633 of our staff have been trained on Environmental and Social Risk During the 2016 Sustainable Finance Catalyst Awards, Assessments. KCB was recognized as a catalyst to the SFI. KCB scooped six awards in various categories cementing its leadership Outlook profile in adopting, embedding and executing sustainability As part of our ongoing actions to promote capacity building, into its business strategy and making it a way of life. This KCB intends to implement the ‘KCB purpose’: Align and recognition has been a journey, and as a Bank, we are proud sustain employee value propositions that are relevant to to benchmark ourselves with the best in the industry and our operating environment; develop and attract talent and learn from our peers and those who have excelled in this enhance talent cover across the Group through various field. programs and initiatives. 35 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Phyllis Wakiaga, Chief Executive, Kenya Association of Manufacturers presents the Commercial Award in banking Category during the SFI catalyst Awards Ceremony to Judith Sidi Odhiambo, Head of Corporate and Regulatory Affairs KCB, Caroline Wakesho Sonje Sustainability Manager, George Mutiga, KCB Bank Head of Trade, Finance and Financial Institutions and Apollo Ong'ara, Director Credit KCB. KCB staff training at KCB Karen leadership centre. Kenya Bankers Association Chief Executive Officer Habil Olaka and KCB Group Chief Executive Officer Joshua Oigara during the launch of the Sustainable Finance Initiatives. KCB Staff during a training session at the KCB Karen Leadership Centre. KCB Staff pose for a group photo after the DSR Induction at the Karen Leadership Centre. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 RESPONSIBLE LENDING We will continue to monitor risk and take pre-emptive action to adjust products, services and progress to ensure we do not expose KCB or our customers to undue risks. KCB is focused on enhancing responsible banking through KCB to avoid and manage loans with potential social improving access to financial services while being a social and environmental risks by conducting social and and environmental leader in the industry. environmental due diligence prior to loan disbursement. Environmental and Social Management Over the last three years since its launch, we have fully System (ESMS) integrated our ESMS into our lending decisions to align We are committed to being a sustainability leader in our key business operations with our sustainability our social and environmental initiatives by introducing framework. This process began in 2014, where we utilized green finance as a core element of our banking the provisions of the ESMS in assessing loans above Ksh. practices by embedding environment and social 500 million in corporate banking and SME lending. risk considerations into our financing decisions. In order to understand and assess how our clients are managing the environmental and social risks associated 89 Million worth of facilities were undertaken with projects they are running, we introduced rules and regulations, in the form of our Environmental and Social in 42 social-environmental Management System (ESMS), for lending to Corporate assessments after the assessment Banking clients. These regulations are a set of policies, threshold was revised downwards in procedures and tools to identify and manage our exposure 2016 to 100 Million to the environmental and social risks of our clients in relation to projects debt-financed by the Group and credit products with an exposure over a defined threshold. Outlook Our ESMS serves as our independent assessment We intend to introduce the ESMS in micro-lending process, tool that ensures that qualifying financed projects maintain the 100% Integration of ESMS in the loan process are in compliance with social and environmental and sustain our Cost to Income Ratio below the 50% mark standards both locally and internationally. The as achieved at the back-end of 2016. ESMS process ensures that the projects we finance: • Are socially and environmentally sustainable; • Respect the rights of the affected workers and communities; • Operate in compliance with the regulatory requirements and best international practice in the >50% Cost to Income ratio countries of operation. The framework integrates social and environmental risk management into business process and aids 37 S UE ISS OU RM ATE RIA L EMPLOYEE 04 DEVELOPMENT Our employees are our most important asset. As such we continue to improve our employee value proposition to address remuneration, our employee retention strategy and skills and knowledge development through our e-learning channels as well as classroom-based learning. KCB continues to pride itself as the employer of choice Every year we engage external consultants to gain feedback in the East African region. We have been successful over from employees on satisfaction and engagement. In 2016, the years because of our employee value proposition on the results of the employee satisfaction survey/index was remuneration, learning and development programmes, 87%, indicating a healthy engagement score. staff wellness programmes, performance management, rewards and recognition, employee retention strategy, In 2016, our Group Human Resource Director, Paul Russo, diversity and staff engagement, all of which are covered in was named among the top 100 most influential Global HR our various Human Resource policies and procedures. Professionals at the 24th edition of the Global HR Excellence Awards. The annual awards are meant to recognize 2015 saw the launch of the ‘Quest for Purpose’ at KCB, top organizations across Africa, which have excelled in a flagship brand purpose process aimed at redefining building the employer brand as an employer of choice and the existence of KCB beyond merely making money to have of late emerged as a stimulus in creating a culture of building the frameworks that will create future markets contribution and innovation at work. and customers. We have since invested in multi-level leadership training for all employees and branch managers At the same event, KCB was feted with three other awards: across cadres to reinforce the values of our brand purpose. • Best Employer of the year. • Best Group in managing health at work. • Best HR in line with business. “We have over the years worked out a comprehensive employee proposition guided by the understanding that human capital is the most important arsenal for any organisation which will define its future, sustainability and competitiveness. This is a recognition of our brand’s excellence and brand supremacy and most befitting of our position as an industry leader. The various employee reform programmes we have put in place in the recent past have put us on the global map. A healthy workplace has become a cornerstone of our culture and we continuously seek to improve our healthy workplace across the seven markets we operate in,” Mr. Paul Russo – KCB Group Human Resource Director speaking during the 24th edition of the Global HR Excellence Awards Our employees As at December 31, 2016, KCB’s workforce comprised of a total of 7,192 employees who included both pensionable and contract staff. Our HR policy involves monitoring of all the elements that affect its execution, in particular: Personnel statistics on the number of permanent and contract staff by gender, region and job grade; employee hire and turnover rates; training hours and medical costs statistics. Some of these are illustrated below: 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Headcount summary as at December 31, 2016 Subsidiary Permanent Contracts Graduate Long Term Direct Contracts Interns Short Term Total & (12 Months Trainees Total Sales (< 12 Total Pensionable and Above) Agents Months )and Casuals Burundi 134 134 13 8 7 28 162 Ethiopia 1 1 1 Kenya 4487 34 8 4529 913 183 70 1166 5695 Rwanda 305 305 14 2 16 321 S. Sudan 314 314 314 Uganda 302 6 308 9 9 317 Tanzania 317 2 319 58 5 63 382 Total 5860 34 16 5910 998 207 77 1282 7192 Combined statistics Group employees 7,192 7,509 2016 2015 Employees Hired Employees Turnover 1,114 1,024 195 273 2016 2015 2016 2015 Male vs Female Long Term Employees Long Term Employees 2,524 Kenya Kenya 1,963 231 S. Sudan S. Sudan 83 202 Rwanda Rwanda 103 Tanzania 128 174 Tanzania Uganda 154 163 Uganda Burundi 84 Burundi 50 140 239 Exits 42% Exits 58% 39 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Male vs Female Employees: Permanent and Pensionable Employees: Permanent and Pensionable 3,378 4,229 2,482 3,283 2016 2015 2016 2015 Separation statistics Gender End of Deceased Resignation Retired Termination VER Total Contract Female 7 2 94 14 20 3 140 Male 10 8 153 21 40 7 239 Total 17 10 247 35 60 10 379 Distribution 4% 3% 65% 9% 16% 3% Male vs Female Management Levels Management Levels (Level D being the Lowest) (Level D being the Lowest) A 633 515 A B 501 297 B C 362 173 C D 210 80 D Employees Hired and Turnover Employees Hired and Turnover 649 239 465 140 Hired Turnover Hired Turnover 62% 38% 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Learning and professional development • Branch managers development program We offer a motivating and inclusive workplace where we –– 264 branch managers from across the group were recognize and develop talent and promote wellbeing. We enrolled in the program and completed phase one of believe we are at our best when our people are at theirs. the program. 125 managers attended the classroom modules last year with the balance scheduled to We have an approved training and development strategy attend in 2017. that is implemented throughout the Group via development • Staff on-boarding program and training programs to ensure we have the skills –– The program was refreshed culminating in the roll out and talent needed to grow our people and our business. of the new induction program. These programs are aligned with KCB’s core purpose – • Staff career development program – Deferred to 2017. Simplifying your world, enabling your progress. They help • Role competency framework library – Deferred to our employees gain new skills and experiences through 2017. formal training, on-the-job experience and mentoring. Expediting career development The trainings are delivered as either classroom based or A good example of how we are involved in our staff career elearning courses. development is the development of Information and Technology skills for the ICT department through various We analyze our training needs across the business learning and development opportunities. We have an annually, to identify priorities and ensure that e-learning portal where IT personnel can access various learning plans support our strategy. In 2015, the online courses to improve their knowledge that can assist results of the training needs assessment survey them in their daily operations. In addition, we sponsor our conducted across the Group resulted in development staff for various external trainings and conferences on of a five-pillar staff development strategy as follows: IT related issues such as Certified Information Systems Auditor and Certified Information Security Manager. • Multilevel leadership development certification –– 2 year program was rolled out in 2016 with 180 top The IT department also absorbs a number of graduates leaders from across the group being enrolled. The from the Group’s Management Trainee Program. leaders subsequently attended their second study block. KCB staff during KCB brand purpose training at the Karen Leadership Centre KCB staff pose with the new adopted KCB Brand Purpose. in 2015. 41 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Employee engagement Employee benefits We make it a priority to listen to our employees and KCB offers a number of employee benefits across the understand their views. Every year we engage external various regions, all of which are covered in our Human consultants to deploy an online survey to all staff. Resource policies and procedures. These include: Through this survey, we gain feedback from employees • Life insurance on satisfaction and engagement. We also engage with • Health care employees informally through internal communications • Disability and invalidity coverage channels and regular team meetings. • Parental leave • Retirement provision • Stock ownership 87% the result in 2016 of the • Pension Employee wellness employee satisfaction Several initiatives were undertaken during the period to survey, indicating a healthy improve employee wellness. These are highlighted below: engagement score, up from • To ease transition back to the workplace, a lactorium 82% in 2015. (KCB NEST) was provided for breastfeeding mothers, who also got the additional support from a new benefits policy. • Introduction of flexible working hours for mothers Additionally, we have a Disciplinary and Grievance during the first six months after return from maternity Handling policy that forms the framework for handling leave (mothers are allowed to come in either two grievances. The Employee Grievance Handling Committee hours late or leave two hours earlier). comprises various members who have been appointed • A staff pharmacy was set up to ensure that staff from the business to listen to, and determine grievances members have easy access to cost effective and good from employees. Other channels of raising grievances/ quality medicine. In addition, the medical programme complaints include: was realigned to better serve the staff. • Personal calls to HR –Employee Relations • In many branches, Zumba fitness sessions are now • Through shop stewards/employee representatives conducted daily to improve the physical well-being of • Through line managers employees. In 2015 through to 2016, leadership visibility and credibility Employee health and safety was a key agenda for employee engagement. This was The safety of our employees is of fundamental importance achieved through a series of Group-wide informal sessions to us. We have in place an Occupational Health and Safety bringing together staff and leadership including the CEO (OHS) Committee, which meets on a quarterly basis to and Executive Committee members. HR breakfast sessions review and advice on the current status of OHS issues for also provided an open forum for discussions with staff the Group. The OHS committee for the Head Office has the members on their HR concerns. In addition, Women in following membership: Leadership sessions took place with the aim of facilitating • Chairperson – Head of Employee Relations and dialogue among female staff members on various issues of Wellness; leadership and skills enhancement. • Members – Head of Facilities & Property Management, • Head of Operational Risk, Head of Security and Retail Following the employee engagement forums, clear action • Customer Service Manager; and plans were developed to respond to the feedback obtained • Secretary – Health and Safety Manager. from the employee opinion surveys. This feedback will form the basis of future programs and interventions. In addition, there are 96 OHS Committees composed of management and unionisable staff representatives for branches that have more than 20 employees. All workplaces have trained Fire Marshals and First Aiders. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Internal operational efficiency, rewards and the Tanzanian Head Office. The recipients were drawn from recognition different banking units ranging from Treasury to Consumer In 2015, KCB developed a clear framework for staff Credit Unit as well as the KCB Foundation. rewards and recognition with clearly spelt out criteria for pay raises, bonuses, enhanced staff loan propositions In 2016, 21 KCB employees were feted for their exemplary and other benefits. The recognition of best performing performance under the Simba Awards. The 21 winners employees is now anchored in this framework which also were made up of 14 individuals and 7 teams out of 517 maps behaviour and performance in line with KCB values. nominations reviewed. These individuals and teams have shown true passion for their calling and embracing the The KCB Simba Awards Program is used to measure and KCB Values of Inspiring, Simple and Friendly. Jane Wanjiku recognize employees or teams for exceptional contributions Nyasio was the proud winner of a Service commendation. made in addressing challenges or issues in the workplace Jane joined the Bank on 3rd April 1975. She has diligently in line with our corporate values. The annual program served the Bank for over 41 years and is currently based at evaluates employees who display one or more of the three the Industrial Area Branch. KCB values in the course of business execution according to the Situation, Task, Action and Result analysis approach. Outlook The three values are: inspiring, simple and friendly. Awards We will continue to actively implement our employee are presented in the following categories: service, controls development programs across the Group. A variety of and governance, business growth, community initiative, tools have been developed to capture relevant information innovation, leadership, behavioural, best employee of the and analyse it to drive improvement. One pillar in the year, unsung heroes/ heroines, team behaviour and team development program is health education that deals with service. both occupational and general awareness on health. The program is intended to: In June 2014, we awarded Wilfred Ijaa, an employee under • Reduce and maintain staff attrition rate below 5%. the lending and risk unit, the Innovation Award as he took • Maintain the high Employee Satisfaction rate. the initiative to develop the Debt Recoveries System, which • Facilitate implementation of the ‘KCB purpose’ by in turn saved KCB Ksh.100 million. Over the years, we had driving employee productivity and engagement as well made several unsuccessful attempts to procure a Debt as engaging in multi-level leadership development Recovery System. Aside from his daily duties and despite across the Group. his lack of previous knowledge of the requisite technologies (Web development), he took it upon himself to learn web development and came up with a comprehensive, operational and well-functioning system. In 2015, there were seven recipients of the Simba Award, six of whom were from the Kenyan offices and one from Simba Awards 2015 – KCB Group CEO & MD Kenya, Joshua Oigara presents an award to the best team during the 2015 Simba Awards. 43 S UE ISS OU RM ATE RIA L ENVIRONMENTAL 04 IMPACT Our energy and emission information was expanded to include all our operations to formally baseline our carbon footprint during this period. In addition to an increased scope of reporting on energy, we commenced measuring our water usage and waste management practices. We continue to measure our carbon footprint and us so as to promote various environmental initiatives engage experts in this area to advise and guide us on including reducing our environmental impact as well as measures to reduce our carbon footprint across the demonstrating our commitment to ensuring we become various business activities that we undertake and a responsible environmental leader in the banking support. Our sustainability policy and framework offer industry. key provisions for protection and enhancement of the natural environment. Partnerships in environmental conservation In our commitment to protecting and preserving our Social and environmental assessments environment, we have over the last three years engaged We base our approach on social and environmental with various partners and like-minded organizations. assessments on the following guiding principles. • United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative We have subscribed to various international • Equator Principles • International Finance Corporation (IFC) frameworks, agreements and initiatives, as well as • Social and Environmental Due Diligence (SEDD) various organizations who share the same values as • Environmental and Social Risks Assessments (ESRA) National Capital Declaration (NDC) 2013 2014 United Nations Global Compact KCB Group endorsed the NDC which is a declaration by the financial services sector demonstrating their We are a signatory to UN Global Compact, a United commitment at the Rio+ 20 Earth Summit to work Nations initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to towards integrating National Capital considerations into adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies and our financial products and services for the 21st century. to report on their implementation. We have also signed a statement of support for the Women's empowerment principles with the United Nations Women in Kenya. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2015 2015 2015 Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) In early 2015 the KCB Group signed up for the GRI Organizational Stakeholder program. We are members of the KBA working Group that helped constitute the Sustainable Finance Initiative. These are industry guiding principles that banks can rely on to underpin sustainability in their day to day operations and decision making. Global Green Growth Initiative 2015 In May 2015 KCB Group signed up alongside Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) for the Initiative which seeks to spur economic development through 2015 National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) green growth initiatives. The KCB Sustainability Manager, Caroline Wakesho Sonje was in May 2015 appointed to the NEMA Board of Directors to serve for a period of three years. 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Group carbon footprint As our business continues to grow, we are committed to reducing our environmental impact and work towards 1,213,030 (SS) becoming a carbon-neutral bank. 2,155,360 (BI) KCB is keen on maintaining operational efficiencies on all 32,430,482 (RW) aspects contributing to our carbon footprint. We monitor 167,163 (UG) progress at the Group level, cascaded down to the 346,972 (TZ) subsidiaries and all the way to the branches. Our carbon footprint emissions increased from 10,555 (tCO2e) in 2015 Water to 14,751 (tCO2e) in 2016 owing to expanding operations Consumption 214,581,363 (KEN) across the region. The Bank has however put in place (Litres) measures that are expected to manage this trend, including: • Introduction of video-conferencing and e-boards for our Board meetings; • Adoption of the KCB Green Agenda initiative across the Group, currently at 30% (up from 20% in 2015); 214,306 (BI) • Investing in low carbon emitting vehicles and leasing 997,605 (RW) as opposed to buying and outsourcing transport; and 1,249,175 (TZ) • Use of an electronic document management system 1,072,453 (UG) and adoption of paperless transactions (mobile and internet banking and online electronic forms). Electricity Consumption These interventions are expected to lead to a 10-15 percent (Kwh) 17,436,631 (KEN) drop in the Bank’s carbon footprint in 2017 and beyond. We have outlined below our performance in the various areas. 2,880 (UG) 972,393 (SS) 413 (BI) 69,335 (BI) 2,873 (TZ) 58,694 (RW) 2,118 (RW) 143,251 (TZ) 13,240 (SS) 72,383 (UG) Paper 63,104 (KEN) Fuel Consumption Consumption 1,621,741 (KEN) (Reams) (Litres) Kenya Uganda Tanzania Rwanda Burundi South Sudan (KEN) (UG) (TZ) (RW) (BI) (SS) The disclosures above relate to FYE 2016 45 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Consumption GHG Emissions GHG Emissions GHC Emissions GHC Emissions 2015 2016 per employee per employee 2015 2016 Diesel consumption 6,833,590 2,227,826 (generators and fleet in litres) Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 3,956.99 5,899.00 0.79 1.07 Electricity consumption (MWh) 13,242.73 13,981.50 Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 4,350.24 4,592.92 0.61 0.94 Total scope 1 and 2 emissions (tCO2e) 8,307.23 19,880.50 Scope 1 Emissions All of KCB’s direct combustion fuels for the six countries: Diesel and petrol combustion for leased and owned cars as well as diesel generator electricity consumption and motor vehicle mileage and fuel consumption for all diesel generators for 2014-16. Scope 2 Emissions Electricity purchased from the grids in the five (Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi) countries for 2014-16. Notes: • South Sudan electricity consumption is not disclosed above. This is because the branches in South Sudan are run entirely on generators and hence do not have information on electricity but fuel for generators. • Electricity consumption data has been sourced directly from the utility companies through respective monthly bills. Outlook • We further plan on introducing sustainability • We are committed to integrating environmentally assurance audits for our carbon footprint figures and sound practices into all our business activities achieve a 100% adoption rate on the Green Agenda and initiatives. We look forward to incorporating across the Group. environmental risks into our corporate risk models. • We plan on harnessing greater benefits of green buildings as well as renewable energy sources, such as solar where possible. KCB Staff planting trees during a tree planting session in 2014. KCB rally drivers and staff pose for a group photo, during a tree planting at the Meru Technical institute in 2015 before the Meru Rally. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY We will maintain our focus on anticipating legislative and regulatory changes. We continue to cultivate our relationships with the relevant authorities and governing bodies to understand changes and adjust our operations accordingly. Our business is run on trust, and public and investor confidence in the market. Therefore issues of governance, integrity, accountability and transparency are at the forefront of our day to day operations. The issue of fraud, both internally and externally is a prevalent risk in the financial services industry. As a Bank, we have taken proactive steps to monitor and manage fraud risk by making use of various anti-fraud measures including risk assessments, fraud risk awareness training, whistle blowing hotlines and audit reviews. We also benchmark ourselves against other financial institutions through engagement in forums like the Kenya Bankers’ Association (KBA) security & forensics committees with independent assurance provided through both internal and external audit functions. These measures have resulted in more robust reviews of fraud cases in the period leading to an increased detection rate and subsequently increase in number of dismissals. Employees who have completed the annual mandatory Ethics E-Learning course across the Group. BURUNDI RWANDA SOUTH SUDAN TANZANIA UGANDA KENYA 66% 50% 39% 62% 55% 84% * Note that the Ethics course was issued in October, 2016 as it was being updated, hence the fair rate of completion. Fraud and Ethics Measures Fraud Cases 2016 (Ksh) 2016 22 cases 2015 (Ksh) 2014 2015 33 cases (Ksh) 2014 20 cases 71% Employees who have completed Fraud Cases Dismissals 31 cases 33 cases 20 cases the annual mandatory Ethics Corruption cases No. of cases reported 57 cases 87 cases 111 cases E-Learning course across the Corruption cases Disciplinary warnings 132 cases — — Group. Corruption cases Dismissals 31 cases 20 cases 33 cases 47 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Group Commitment to Ethics and Integrity We pride ourselves in having Zero Tolerance to Corruption. There is also an externally hosted channel, “VOICE YOUR Our code of ethical conduct, which requires staff to observe CONCERN” for staff to report on any issues anonymously the highest standards of ethical behaviour in their dealings via the email kcb@tip-offs.com. This channel, which is with our stakeholders, is available to all staff through the managed by an external provider, is used by employees to intranet. The Code addresses expected behaviour related raise their concerns on unethical and unlawful behaviour to bribery and corruption, harassment and whistle blowing, and on matters related to organizational integrity. business relationships, competition, consumer protection, conflict of interest, respect for intellectual property, Internally, staff report to the Head of Compliance Risk & confidentiality of customer information, environmental Ethics through Telephone Number: +254 20 3270 547 and stewardship, political contributions, insider dealing and +254 20 2852 547 or via email through ethics@kcb.co.ke business gifts. Further, an ethics e-learning course has been availed to all staff across the Group and at all levels, including the Board of Directors. The Group has policies that are carefully crafted to provide an adequate internal control environment that upholds the Group’s zero tolerance policy on corruption and bribery. Key areas such as procurement, Information Technology, lending and employment are closely monitored and supported by robust and well defined procedures. In 2016, KCB Bank Kenya through the umbrella body of the KBA signed the “Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya”, developed on behalf of the private sector by Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), Global Compact Network Kenya and Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) and endorsed by the President of Kenya as a key intervention towards addressing corruption and unethical practices within the government and private sector. This code was designed to change the way we do business, in line with global best practices (the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-corruption) and has been extended to our suppliers and service providers as part of KCB’s Interactive 24h chat on www.kcbbankgroup.com SMS: 22522 0711 087 000 / 0732 187 000 contactcentre@kcb.co.ke strategic agenda in enhancing the ethics of business conduct within our supply chain. Outlook We will continue to promote our code of ethical conduct Whistle-blowing procedures and the related ethics policies to safeguard KCB’s The Board has shown its commitment to ethics and reputation from any damage that may arise from business anticorruption by approving the Whistle-blower Policy activities and internal operations by upholding a strong that is in use throughout the Group. The Group has an risk management and ethics culture. The Board and senior established internal process and open door policy where management will provide oversight on the ethical issues staff are empowered and encouraged to openly discuss and lead by example through setting the tone at the top of issues and seek support on ethical and lawful behaviour what is required. from the line managers. Every branch and division in each country has an appointed Ethics Champion who provides We also intend to achieve 100% Group Ethics training and support to their respective unit and liaises with the Ethics reduce annual fraud cases to below 10. department team. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Our communities are the lifeblood of our business. We will continue to invest in worthy causes that are of importance to our society by placing more emphasis on the indirect benefits these initiatives provide to KCB. KCB carries out its community initiatives through the a biometric registration program with recipients given KCB Foundation. Among the many initiatives supported unique identification numbers for the program linked through the Foundation, “2jiajiri” (youth empowerment to their fingerprints. The data is received by KCB and an programme), “Mifugo ni Mali” (agriculture) and KCB e-card issued out after verifying each beneficiary at the scholarships programme (education) stood out in 2016 in point of registration. After registration, the e-card holder line with our sustainability pillars. can access the cash disbursed on a monthly basis at the registered branch after biometric verification. The Group also partners with public and private organizations in a variety of sectors from The e-card, known as the KCB “Inua Jamii” card was telecommunications, social welfare schemes, education, launched on 29 April 2015 by President Uhuru Kenyatta. agriculture, transport and energy. As per the agreement between KCB and GoK, recipients are not charged for the services rendered. The e-card Government of Kenya system is aimed at increasing the scale and improving the National Social Safety Net Program quality and coordination of social assistance interventions As part of the Kenya Vision 2030, the Government of Kenya in government cash transfers to beneficiaries. Due to our (GoK) is committed to ensuring that Kenya is a country vast geographical footprint (265 branches and over 13, with a thriving economy and a network of policies that 562 agents) and reliable card business, we have been provides a strong social safety net for the vulnerable. able to offer convenient means of availing the funds to the Through the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and registered beneficiaries in various parts of the country. Services, the Government has implemented the roll out of the National Social Safety Net (Cash Transfer) Program. For more about the National Social Safety Net program, The objective of the program is to enable the vulnerable please visit the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and section of the population to meet basic human needs by Services website here: http://www.labour.go.ke/. providing Ksh.2,000 monthly as cash transfers to identified households in all the 290 constituencies. This includes: • Increasing the reach of cash transfers to attain universal coverage for Older Persons and Persons with Disabilities; • Creating a new legislative framework to place cash transfers for the needy on a solid foundation through a system of Social Protection; and • Ensuring that our country is safe for our children, the youth and the elderly. With a budget of at least Ksh. 29 billion for the initial 400,000 government-targeted beneficiaries, the GoK through the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Services launched 49 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 County Governments This initiative is part of the Group’s investment in digital Public revenue collection is recognized as an integral payments as Kenya increasingly moves into a cash lite component of fiscal policy and administration in economy. It allows the counties to plan well within the County Government operations. It is the fuel of budget. At a glance, they can account for revenues collected every government as it is the main instrument on a daily, weekly, monthly and annual basis to allow for through which government funding is ensured. better allocation of resources. In line with the national agenda of automating all public In March 2015, the Group rolled out the system solution revenue collections in the country, including at County in Kiambu County by unveiling the Kiambu County Card, Government level, KCB has rolled out a program aimed which is part of the Kiambu County Digitika Program to aid at facilitating the collection of taxes in the counties. revenue collection and management. In the next phase of With most counties complaining of a drop in revenue the Kiambu Digitika Program, businesses will soon be able collection due to the manual systems used and to apply for their licenses online, complete the process and leakages therein, the cashless based e-system ensures print the licenses at the comfort of their businesses. revenue pilferage and collection loopholes are sealed. To learn more about the Kiambu County Digitika Program, please visit the Kiambu County Government website here: http://www.digitika.kiambu.go.ke/. “This solution is aligned to the national agenda of automating all public revenue collections in the country. It allows the counties to plan well within the budget. At a glance, they can account for revenues collected on a daily, weekly, monthly and annual basis to allow for better allocation of resources and support intelligence expenditures” KCB Chief Operating Officer Mr. Samuel Makome speaking during the Huduma card launch at the Kiambu County offices Inua Jamii Beneficiaries line up to receive their monthly stipend at one of the KCB Inua Jamiii community booths. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 United States Agency for International credit for health facilities in Kenya to purchase much Development (USAID) and General Electric needed medical and diagnostic imaging equipment. (GE) USAID is the principal United States federal agency Under the program, qualifying healthcare providers will providing development and humanitarian assistance to have the opportunity to access more favourable financing over 150 countries around the world. USAID uses public through improved risk-sharing, training and services. private partnerships (known as Global Development Alliances, or GDAs) to leverage the resources, expertise and Advantages include longer loan terms, competitive interest creativity of the private sector as well as non-governmental rates and small upfront capital investments. organizations to tackle development challenges worldwide. For more information on USAID, please visit their website Since the GDA mechanism was launched in 2001, the here: http://www.usaid.gov/ agency has engaged in more than 1,000 public-private alliances with over 3,000 individual partners. This has For more information on GE, please visit their website here: allowed USAID to leverage billions of dollars in private http:// www.ge.com/ funds, and access extensive private-sector expertise to promote market-led development in developing countries. General Electric (GE) is an American multinational conglomerate corporation incorporated in New York and headquartered in Fairfield, Connecticut, USA. As at 2016, the company operated through the following segments: Appliances, Power and Water, Oil and Gas, Energy Management, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Capital which cater to the needs of Home Appliances, Financial services, Medical device, Life Sciences, Pharmaceutical, Automotive, Software Development and Engineering industries. In 2014, KCB partnered with USAID and GE to provide Health Financing across the country. The partnership marked the Signing the partnership from left: President & CEO , GE Africa, Jay Ireland, KCB first time that a Development Credit Authority facility was Group CEO, Joshua Oigara and USAID Associate Administrator, Mark Feierstein. The agreement with KCB specifically covers access to financing for a range of GE established directly with the support of a multinational Health care equipment, manufactured globally, including at several U.S. locations. company. The new partnership was established to make up to US $10 million in local financing available to small and medium enterprises for the development of private health facilities, including small clinics, diagnostic centres and hospitals in Kenya. It was designed in response to the lack of local US Ambassador, Robert Godec, KCB Bank Retail Director Ms. Annastacia Kimtai and dignitaries pose for a photo. 51 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 The KCB Foundation first extensive Livestock Expo Exhibition in Kenya that The KCB Foundation is a charitable organization under the took place on 4th to 6th November 2015 in Nairobi at the Group structure which focuses on transforming lives in the University of Nairobi, Upper Kabete Campus. community through a range of partnerships and programs. It focusses on community development initiatives in The Expo brought together local, regional and international the areas of agriculture, education, health, enterprise livestock stakeholders and value chain players, (12,365 development, environment, and humanitarian relief. farmers and 1,150 delegates) drawn from Netherlands, Germany, Kenya, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda and In 2014, 68% of the Foundation’s budget of Ksh.201 million Ghana. The objective of the expo was to commercialize was invested in enterprise development through the Mifugo the livestock sector as well as profile the investment Ni Mali program and in scholarships under the education opportunities the sector offers. program. Health, environment and humanitarian relief programs received 32% of the funds. Key highlights from the Expo included: In 2015, Ksh 272.8 million was allocated to the KCB Foundation. Of this, Ksh. 117 million was spent on education, Ksh. 93.6 million on enterprise development 250 million worth of business deals were and the rest spread out amongst community initiatives in transacted health, environmental causes and humanitarian relief. In 2016, the Foundation spent a total of Ksh. 315 million in the same areas of education, enterprise development, 719 million mobilized from partners including environmental and humanitarian interventions. This AgriPro focus, SNV Netherlands was a 34% increase from 2015. Enterprise development Development Organization, Kenya initiatives received the largest share of investments in line Markets Trust, and the Kenya with our long term sustainability goals under community Livestock Marketing Council investment. Agricultural sector The Mifugo ni Mali program continued to be a centre piece In our commitment to tackling challenges presented by of the KCB Foundation’s work, with marked progress made extreme poverty, the KCB Foundation launched the Mifugo in 2015 where it expanded from the original counties to Ni Mali livestock value chain development programme encompass three new counties: Narok, Mombasa and Kilifi. in 2014, targeting livestock keepers living in the Arid and Progress in 2016 saw the number of farmers positively Semi-Arid Lands (ASALs). This is a pro-poor livestock impacted by the programme increase to 30,000. value chain development initiative that seeks to help Mifugo ni Mali 2016 2015 2014 livestock farmers commercialize the sector. The program measures seeks to address a myriad of issues that have plagued Amount allocated the livestock sector specifically; productivity and nutrition to mobilization challenges, access to financial services such as loans for through KSh. KSh. KSh. value addition equipment and processes, working capital, partnerships to 166,190,274 268,940,000 180,000,000 herd improvement, animal feeds and fodder production, support Livestock animal health services, value chain trade and market Project access services. The program was launched in Baringo, Mifugo ni Mali Taita Taveta and Kwale Counties. project No. of 30,000 26,000 10,812 farmers reached KCB Foundation, AgriPro Focus, Kenya Livestock Producers Association, Kenya Livestock Marketing Council and Eastern Africa Farmers Association launched the 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Education Kidneys for Life Education remains a core thematic area for the KCB We remain committed to investing in our Kidney Health Foundation owing to its continued relevance and impact. program. The commitment has been achieved through Of the five thematic areas of the Foundation, education the provision of dialysis machines in public hospitals and provides the most direct and strategic avenue for KCB support paediatric kidney transplants in Kenyatta National to engage with the youth population and in turn, the Hospital, public health messages and medical screening households that they represent. camps for chronic kidney disease. In 2014, we donated a dialysis machine to the Muranga Level Three Hospital, In 2014 an additional 212 scholarships were awarded Machakos Level Five Hospital and the Eldoret Moi Teaching to the already existing scholars being sponsored, which and Referral Hospital. brought the total scholars under our program to 596. As in the past, the need for scholarship is far higher than Enterprise development what the Foundation and other stakeholders provide due As part of our commitment to help develop enterprise to the escalating fees and levies from schools. Through the in our communities, we have implemented programs program, the Foundation received additional support from that support groups in our society that face barriers to Western Union Foundation which provided KSh. 8.7 million enterprise success in the region. These are particularly towards the scholarships. women, youth and the unbanked. In 2015, KSh. 117 million was spent on education mainly KCB 2jiajiri programme the provision of scholarships. A total of 240 scholarship In March 2016, KCB launched an ambitious Ksh. 50 billion beneficiaries were recruited to the program, 40 of them enterprise development programme geared towards being students with disability. The scholarship beneficiaries birthing a new cadre of youthful entrepreneurs within undergo a mentorship process with each being assigned to the informal sector to ease the country’s unemployment a mentor from their home branch, peer to peer mentorship crisis. The programme dubbed “Formalizing the Informal in school as well as the annual group mentorship forum. Sector,” that seeks to create jobs and wealth, founded on The forum aims to instill leadership values and promote the concept of “shared value”; a management strategy academic excellence among the beneficiaries. that focuses on creating measurable business value by identifying and addressing social problems that intersect In 2016, 240 scholarships were awarded under the KCB with businesses. The program has three phases namely: scholarship programme. • Vocational skills training; • Incubation for business start-ups; and • Linkage to commercial products and services. 240 scholarships awarded The pilot phase of this program kicked off in 2015 where 2,000 students underwent skills training in various crafts in the areas of Construction, Automobile Engineering, annually since 2014 Domestic Skills, Beauty, Personal care and Agribusiness. The programme is expected to benefit at least 500,000 Health entrepreneurs in 5 years, thereby creating at least 2.5 Midwives Training million direct and indirect jobs. In September 2014, KCB Bank Tanzania Limited entered into a partnership with AMREF Health Africa. The partnership was set up to train 10 midwives and educate the public through radio on basic health issues related to maternal health and mother-to-child HIV transmission and prevention. KCB presented TSh. 48 million for the training and education program. 53 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 KCB Group Board Director and Foundation Chairman, Catherine Kola, KCB Group Chairman, Ngeny Biwott, US Ambassador, Robert Godec and KCB Group CEO & MD Kenya, Joshua Oigara during the launch of the KCB 2jiajiri launch at Kasarani Stadium in 2016. Hon. Benjamin Cheboi, Governor of Baringo County, Ngeny Biwott KCB Group Chairman and Jane Mwangi KCB Foundation Executive Director during the 2016 KCB Kimalel Goat auctioning event. Kimalel Goat auction yard was fenced and commissioned by KCB Foundation. A total of Ksh 28, 242,000 was raised from a sale of 2326 goats. H.E The President of Kenya, Hon. Uhuru Kenyatta presents a certificate to Dennis Barasa Keya, a graduate of 2016 class of KCB FOUNDATION 2jiajiri program. KCB Foundation Programme Manager, Pauline Ndonga Gakuo poses for a photo just after presenting an award to Sembua Mbingu Prudence, a form 3 student at Moi GirlsEldoret for being the best performing female student at her level. Sembua scored an A-. 54 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 KCB Lions' Den Other initiatives Launched in 2016, this is a reality TV show format featuring Other KCB Foundation initiatives that have taken place in entrepreneurs pitching their business ideas in order to the last three years include: secure investment finance from a panel of established • The provision of medical equipment for maternal units entrepreneurs and venture capitalists (referred to as “the in five hospitals in Tanzania. Lions”) who have the cash and the know-how it takes to • KCB South Sudan donated bedding to Malakal Hospital succeed. Kenya’s most daring entrepreneurs were given and we fully furnished a medical ward at the Juba an opportunity to step into the den to convince the Lions Military Hospital in South Sudan. that their business is worth investing in and offer a share • We sponsored the Banana Livelihood Project in of their company in return. The show was being run in Murang’a County. partnership with KCB and local TV stations and produced by • KCB Foundation donated milk coolers in Baringo Quite Bright Films (QBF) Kenya licensed by Sony Pictures County. Television. • Through the KCB Made in Uganda Project, which is a partnership between the KCB Foundation and The first season saw thirty businesses receive Ksh. 153 the Uganda Small Scale Industries Association, 264 million in funding. The successful businesses represent small businesses run by women and youth have 42% of 72 businesses that took part in the 12-episode been established. The project’s goal is to enhance season. The Lions' Den show came through the 2jiajiri entrepreneurship competencies to create jobs and initiative of KCB which aims to tackle the unemployment reduce poverty. It is envisioned that with the growth of scourge facing the youth in Kenya today. The show attracted each business, additional employment opportunities close to 5 million unique viewers in the 12 weeks of airing shall be created. In addition, the mentorship component on NTV Kenya and trended Number 1 on Twitter every has enabled 24 entrepreneurs to undergo a four month Monday during the airing period. mentorship program with industry professionals to assist in business growth and development. Applications for participants in the second season of Lions’ Den open in March 2017. Outlook As we continue to make meaningful impacts on the overall For more information on the Lions’ Den, visit the website: environment and economies we operate in, we shall seek https://bankika.co.ke/lionsden/ to deepen our partnerships to provide financial solutions to existing and potential customers and look forward to “In line with the 2jiajiri initiative, Lions’ Den came engaging with like-minded partners in the future to impact as a response to the entrepreneurs’ call for more the communities around us. opportunities as more than 40 per cent of the youth in Kenya between the ages of 15 and 34 years old face We are set to roll out similar system solutions like the unemployment,” Kiambu County Revenue Solution System up to a minimum KCB Marketing Director, Angela Mwirigi. of 15 more counties by December 2017. From Left;​Kris Senanu, CEO of Blackrock Entertainment; Wandia Gichuru, Co-Founder and MD of Vivo Activewear; Darshan Chandaria, Group CEO and Director of Chandaria Industries; Olive Gachara, Founder and Publisher of Couture Magazine Africa; Myke Rabar, CEO Homeboyz Entertainment. 55 ENERGY S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM CONSERVATION OU 04 While we intend to grow our operations, we are mindful of innovations in energy efficiency and changing technologies. We will look to harness greater benefits of green buildings as well as renewable energy sources, such as solar, where appropriate. KCB is mindful of innovations in energy efficiency and • Lighting improvementsUse of LED Lamps. changing technologies with respect to energy conservation • Air conditioning energy savers. even as we continue to grow our operations. We have put • Occupancy Sensors. in place several measures to manage efficient energy use • Server Room Air Conditioner improvements. including: • Use of green building technology in our new From the audit done, a proposed Energy Investment Plan headquarters in Upperhill; for the above areas with an estimated investment cost of • Use of energy efficient lighting with motion sensors Ksh. 2.8 million, will later result in savings of approximately and LED lighting in some of our branches; Ksh. 1.2 million per annum if implemented. • Energy saving devices; and • Occupancy sensors. Outlook We acknowledge our below par performance on energy As our business continues to grow, we are committed conservation/carbon footprint over the years, and are to energy saving initiatives through conservation and focused on putting in place measures to remedy the same. efficiency improvements. We have therefore been proactive • In March 2017 we conducted face to face awareness in managing our energy use by, for example investing in creation on resource consumption/ Internal KCB a 100% solar power branch in 2013-2014 at the Maasai Green Agenda for all the units and divisions. Plans are Mara and implementing the KCB Green Agenda. underway to replicate the same to all the subsidiaries. • We have planned a continuous staff engagement To ensure that we keep minimizing our energy calendar/ programme which highlights the need for consumption, energy efficient lighting with motion sensors eco-efficiency. and the use of Light-Emitting Diode (LED) lighting have • All units/ divisions through their respective been recommended for all new buildings we acquire or let, sustainability working group members/ champions including the newly built KCB Headquarters in Kenya. have been tasked to come up with initiatives to reduce our resource consumption. In September 2015, we engaged an energy consultant • We have tasked the Facilities Department within the to conduct a general energy audit at our Disaster Group to upgrade existing buildings with the latest Recovery Services Centre. The audit was done to identify green technology to match our new headquarters/ opportunities for energy efficiency and conform to the KCB Towers in Upper hill. However this is a long term Kenya Energy (Energy Management) Regulations 2012 process and will be conducted in phases. issued by the Energy Regulatory Commission. • We are tracking our resource consumption on a quarterly basis. The audit entailed interviews with site management and • We have captured Resource consumption target as a staff, measurement of energy parameters using various KPI in every individual’s appraisal all the way from the audit instruments, identification of energy efficiency CEO with a target of reducing our consumption by 5% opportunities and a financial analysis of the energy annually. conservation (efficiency) measures. The scope of the audit included assessment of power consumption, lighting, air conditioning and water supply. The audit, which was conducted in September 2015 identified opportunities for energy efficiency in the following areas: 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 SECURITY KCB considers security, both physical and technological, as being of paramount importance to our business. We continue to run anti-fraud, anti-phishing and anti-corruption programmes to protect our data and that of our customers by state-of-the-art security measures on our operations and continually monitoring our business for weakness and breaches. Technology In our continued efforts to enhance data security in order to Technology and systems ensure we are consistently mitigate risk, we selected and formed an agreement with reliable, secure and agile. Our future depends on how the Swiss firm NetGuardians to use one of their solutions. we deploy various technological enhancements. We are The solution has helped us stay ahead of evolving fraud committed to ensuring that existing and future applications tactics and IT risks by using smart behavioural analysis to of technology will allow our employees to do their jobs to monitor and analyse all user activities in real time. Alerts the best of their ability and our customers to get the best allow rapid intervention when potential risk is detected and service possible, irrespective of what channel they choose automated reports facilitate reporting and auditing. to engage us through. Infrastructure management and service The above would not be possible without leveraging on delivery the relevant technology. Our primary source of data is the KCB’s banking data is managed by our core banking core banking system the main customer transactional system, T24. In order to improve the efficiency of our platform. The T24, core banking system has integrated processes and the quality of our customer experience, specific peripheral systems that accurately capture unit the board approved the project plans for implementation transactions. For financial reporting and monitoring, we of the T24 platform upgrade from version R8 to version have heavily invested in Oracle Financials, which is a R14. As at 31 December 2016, the upgrade was complete, specialized financial processing and reporting software. and resulted in increased capacity for a better customer Data is integrated in-country and from the various service experience where we can now handle more than subsidiaries. twice the number of transactions on a daily basis. We have invested USD 6 million in the upgrade so as to achieve a IT risk management 99.5% reliability on T24. Information security remains a key area of focus for us as we increasingly implement new technological solutions. We strive to ensure minimal disruptions to normal business In 2014, we focused on strengthening our network’s activities are realized by ensuring any outages, disruption security by undertaking various network vulnerability tests or system failures to normal business are addressed performed by in-house and external consultants. These immediately. Internally, we have Service Level Agreements tests focused on authentication methodology and logical with several business units whereby our performance is access control. rated in terms of the support provided to the business units. 57 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Anti-Money Laundering (AML) KCB has maintained a well-defined AML control framework In August 2014, we became the second bank in Eastern for many years and formalized the AML policy and Africa to complete the MasterCard PayPass certification procedures in 2005. Since then, we have continuously that was administered by Compass Plus, an international enhanced the AML control framework through employee provider of retail banking and electronic payments software training and automated transaction monitoring. Automated to processors and financial institutions. This means that the Transaction Monitoring was implemented in 2014 to cover Group is now able to offer acceptance of contactless cards the widest range of activities. Any suspicious activities based on MasterCard PayPass technology. We were chosen detected are duly reported as required by Law and the to complete the certification by the Government of Kenya Banking Regulations. Staff training is achieved through as part of a large-scale project to implement contactless induction and targeted contact training as well as through technology in the region. a mandatory annual computer based E-Learning assessed course which is availed to all staff. Following the certification and as principal members of MasterCard, we are now able to accept MasterCard Partnership with MasterCard PayPass cards. MasterCard is a leader in global payments solutions and a technology company that connects billions of consumers, For more information about MasterCard, please visit their thousands of financial institutions and millions of website: http://www.mastercard.com. merchants and businesses. For more information on Nakumatt Holdings Limited, Our partnership with MasterCard came at a time when please visit their website: http://www.nakumatt.net Kenya’s financial sector was seeking to migrate from the magnetic strip cards to the more secure chip and PIN cards using the latest Europay, MasterCard and Visa (EMV) Outlook technology. We were one of the first banks to migrate all We will continue to invest in reassuring our customers existing and new customers to this technology across our on the security of transacting through our various digital Group offices. channels by continually engaging in acquisition and implementation of robust security controls. The Bank is We partnered with MasterCard to roll out 5 million also diligently tracking its internal processes and updating MasterCard-branded prepaid, debit and credit cards in them accordingly in order to keep up to date with any Kenya over a period of five years (from 2014 to 2019). As a developments in order to secure their customer's security. result of the partnership, KCB cardholders are able to use their chip enabled prepaid, debit or credit cards at any of We plan to introduce cloud computing capabilities and the over 36.9 million point of sale terminals in over 210 achieve a cost efficiency of 48%. countries and territories where MasterCard is accepted. In the contactless payments frontier, we plan to become In our efforts to sustain a shift to cashless transactions, certified in Visa Paywave for both issuing and acquiring, we partnered with the leading regional East African retail JCB and UnionPay cards. chain, Nakumatt Holdings Limited and MasterCard to launch the Nakumatt Global Prepaid MasterCard card. The We plan to achieve 100% awareness on AML trainings and card enables users to shop on credit and pay later or have awareness by the end of 2017. it deducted from their KCB accounts. The new card, which is EMV compliant, replaces the Nakumatt Cash loyalty smartcard and provides a range of enhanced benefits and security features. The cards are available from all Nakumatt outlets in the various countries where they operate and also from select KCB branches. As a regional bank our customers across Eastern Africa will enjoy more convenience and choice. 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 DIVERSITY Although KCB has an employee profile that closely mirrors the natural population, more effort must be put in to attracting and retaining women at the higher management levels of the organisation. At KCB, we value diversity, and our current focus is on As we transition into the green economy, we acknowledge gender balance within teams and at all levels of the that women are the majority in agriculture and trade in Kenya business. To understand and strengthen gender balance, and we are therefore proactive in adopting specific strategies we analyse the proportion of male and female staff, new targeting their work environment and return on investments. hires and leavers. Women’s empowerment Gender diversity KCB was among the first signatories of the statement of Part of our sustainability agenda is to incorporate gender support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles with diversity as part of a strategic initiative to ensure that we United Nations Women in Kenya. The Empowerment encourage more women to take up key roles at all levels of principles present the seven steps that businesses and management. other sectors can take to advance and empower women. By signing the statement, KCB has committed to express In 2015, we launched a five year Women in Leadership support for advancing equality between women and men Program to encourage women to take up senior leadership to: positions in the Group. To date a total of 260 women have • Bring the broadest pool of talent to our endeavours attended a four-day training under this program, up from • Further our companies’ competitiveness 200 and 100 in 2015 and 2014 respectively. • Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability commitments In addition, we have achieved 30% composition of women • Model behaviour within our companies that reflects on the KCB Board of Directors. We aim to have above 33% the society we would like for our employees, fellow composition of women in the Board. Despite having a citizens and families female composition of 30% at the senior management in • Encourage economic and social conditions that provide 2016, up from 27% in both 2014 and 2015, we target to opportunities for women and men, girls and boys achieve a 50% composition in this category. • Foster sustainable development in the countries in which we operate In 2016, KCB signed up to the Global Banking Alliance for Women, a global consortium of financial institutions During the period, the Board approved a policy guaranteeing dedicated to supporting banks as they capture the paid flexible working hours for mothers during the first six opportunity of the women’s market. For more information months after return from maternity leave, to be agreed and about the consortium and their initiatives, visit their website scheduled with their line managers. This allows mothers on http://www.gbaforwomen.org who have resumed from maternity leave to come to work either two hours late or leave two hours earlier (whichever is applicable) to enable them to breastfeed and spend more “KCB has over the years made deliberate investments time with their babies during the first six months. to support women’s entry into entrepreneurship across Outlook the country. We believe that women are key drivers of There is a gap between men and women at senior economic expansion, and they sit right at the apex of managerial roles. We are therefore looking at several long determining Kenya’s growth trajectory in the coming term initiatives to employ, empower and retain women in years.” top management positions by: Mr. Samuel Makome – KCB Group Chief Operating • Achieving a target of 33% of women in the Board of Officer, speaking with the Global Banking Alliance for Directors. Women about KCB’s decision to join the Alliance. • Achieving a target of 50% of women in Senior Management Roles. 59 S UE OU RM ATE RIA L ISS FINANCIAL 04 INCLUSION KCB is aware that there are many people who remain unable to participate in the modern economy due to lack of access. We will strive to reach all demographics through adoption of technology and embracing innovation to deliver services to all marginalised communities. As the largest regional bank by assets in Eastern Africa, we continue to work tirelessly to remove barriers and make banking more accessible for customers, particularly for the vulnerable and under-served populations. Our broad geographic footprint within the Eastern African region means that we service a diverse portfolio of clients from individuals to SMEs to corporates and governments. Banking Channels Islamic Banking (Sahl) In April 2015, we launched our Islamic Banking solutions (KCB Sahl banking) to reach out and provide banking solutions to a wider community of individuals. KCB has created various asset and liability products under the Sahl Banking proposition. These include Mudharaba, Qard Hassan, Wadia, Murabhaha, Musharaka and Ijara. These products are consistent with the principles of Islamic Sharia Law. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Table Banking for Women Entrepreneurs In our support of women entrepreneurship, KCB has been investing in a new form of banking known as “TableBanking” that is quickly taking shape in Kenya. This is a Group-funding strategy where about 10 members pool their resources together, meet at least once monthly, give their contributions which are loaned to members at “friendly” interest rates as well as make strategic plans on how to invest their savings to earn bonuses. KCB has so far trained over 2,500 women entrepreneurs under the Joyful Women Organization (JOYWO) on business acumen and financial education and has put over Ksh. 20 million towards supporting JOYWO’s annual conferences. Diaspora Banking (Banking without boundaries) With over 12 million East Africans in the diaspora, we created Diaspora Banking to provide reliable banking and investment services for Eastern Africans in foreign countries. The ‘Banking without boundaries” products offer round-the-clock electronic and mobile banking. Eastern Africans living abroad can transact online, pay utility bills as well as transfer money from the KCB Diaspora account to other accounts globally even outside the KCB system. 61 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Internet Banking Agency Banking In 2013, we unveiled our new and faster portal www. As part of our goals to promote inclusive banking and kcbbankGroup.com which allows our customers to carry support Kenya’s Vision 2030 objective to increase access out transactions online conveniently and to utilize our other to formal banking services in the country, we continue to internet banking services such as KCB Bankika, KCB Mobi promote agency banking via our KCB Mtaani agents. KCB Bank and the KCB Diaspora Banking. Mtaani is a cost-effective way to expand our reach without the necessity of investing in brick and mortar. Youth Banking With the growth in the youth market, we are committed to introducing innovative products and services that will appeal to the youth. We have introduced internet and mobile 15.5 Million transactions processed by banking (M-Benki app) which provides more accessibility KCB Mtaani agents to banking solutions. We have also created and tailored as at December 31, 2016. several accounts such as the Bankika personal and Bankika business accounts for the youth. 13,562 agency outlets as at 31 December 2016 Tailored Agricultural Products and Services We have established a specialized agribusiness unit whose primary goal is to reach out to players in the sector. The unit continues to make progress in achieving the national Agricultural Sector Development Strategy (ASDS) aimed at transforming the sector into a profitable economic activity capable of attracting private investment and providing gainful employment for the people. The ASDS strategy is expected to achieve the 10 % annual economic growth rate expected under the Economic Pillar of Vision 2030. KCB has aligned itself to be a key enabler in this sector. In order to be fully supportive of the sector, KCB offers accounts and loan facilities designed for small, medium and large scale farmers. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Partnership and Innovation of innovation so as to ensure the stability and effective risk management upon which KCB has built its reputation. While we recognize that we need to evolve to remain competitive, we remain conscious of the fact that our skill Below are some of the highlights on innovative products sets and systems need to be able to cope with this level which were actualized between 2014 and 2016: KCB M-Benki The annual growth rates of mobile phone penetration in the developing world have ranged between 30% and 50% or higher and penetration has been rapidly increasing (Hausman, 2010).The use of mobile banking has offered commercial banks a costless expansion strategy since it reduces geographical constraints and transaction costs. We have been on the frontier in partnering with mobile operators to play a crucial role in deepening financial inclusion in the country and the region. In 2014, we partnered with Safaricom Limited to introduce the mobile banking product dubbed M-Benki. The product has enabled new customers to open accounts with KCB using their mobile phones without having to go to an agent to do the same. The mobile application enables one to access their account, send money and withdraw cash. KCB M-Pesa Account In March 2015, together with Safaricom, we released the ‘KCB-M-Pesa Account’ product. This flagship product enables one to get loans using their mobile phone with a flexible repayment period ranging from one month to six months. One need not have a KCB account to access the loan facility. KCB has provided low facility fees for the loans which start from as low as two percent per month. The customer’s loan limit is determined by a number of factors including, but not limited to; the amount of savings that the customer has, the customer’s usage of M-Pesa and their savings on other KCB platforms. Customers also have the option of two fixed savings options, a fixed deposit account and a target savings account. In addition to offering access to instant loan facilities on request, the customer can save, place standing orders or make fixed deposits on their mobile phones. In 2016, our partnership with Safaricom in delivering on the KCB M-Pesa banking channel continued to grow and saw us register over 7.8 million customers on the platform. This has facilitated Ksh. 9.1 billion in loans to date. 63 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Biashar@Smart The card, which was introduced on December 1, 2014, To increase financial accessibility for the “unbanked” enables customers to pay for transport using cards instead population under the SME sector, we partnered with of cash, offering them a secure and convenient way of Safaricom Limited to establish a one-stop solution platform paying their fares. to enable SMEs to scale up their growth while nurturing enterprise health through smart tips on cost management, Commuters just need to tap their cards on the special loyalty programs and preferential business opportunities. machine and with that they get a physical/ electronic The product, Biashar@ Smart, is a solution that is a set of receipt indicating the date, route and time of travel. The communication and financing products, capacity building system seeks to boost Kenya’s confidence in electronic initiatives and reward programs aimed at connecting, transactions, e-commerce and online banking in the empowering and growing SMEs. country. KCB brings to the partnership flexible products and KCB Insurance Agency (KCBIA) services including advisory services, KCB SME Banking, In April 2015, we launched our expanded insurance competitively-priced KCB SME loans, insurance, online agency business where we offer seven different varieties banking registration, pre-paid cards and credit cards which of insurance. These include Property, Liability, Motor, will help unlock the potential of entrepreneurs in the rural Healthcare, Agriculture, Micro, and Marine Insurance. In and urban areas to scale up and grow. addition, KCB Insurance Agency offers Risk Management and professional insurance advisory services to its clients. Safaricom Limited complements the existing offerings with Cloud Software as a Service (Cloud SaaS) which offers The Agency has laid a firm foundation for the Bancassurance human resources, accounting and payroll applications Business by successfully rolling out a 5-year Strategic online to SME’s, saving them the cost of buying the software, Plan, helping KCB Group to consolidate its position towards as well as domain hosting and professional email services. realizing the goal of being a leader in provision of financial Through Biashar@Smart, SMEs can enjoy access to services. The Agency has a new robust Bancassurance networking events and forums, exposure to new markets, structure to support roll-out of insurance business across new supply sources and trade partners, which allow them the branches. We now have 172 dedicated Insurance staff to grow their businesses sustainably. to drive the insurance business across the KCB branch network which has enabled KCBIA to operationalize Pepea Card the offering of insurance products and services across Another innovative product and one that we are especially approximately 150 branches. proud of was the launch of a Multi-Functional Transit Debit Card “Pepea”. The Point Of Sale system is a standard digital We have established partnerships with a number of device that can read any EMV card, which uses Near Field strategically aligned underwriting partners, developed and Communication technology. rolled-out a whole range of insurance products to address the diverse needs of the Kenyan market. We are currently focusing on growing our short-term business but we are looking at getting a share of the life Insurance and Pension business within the medium term. KCB Insurance will continue to drive non-funded income through digital distribution of insurance products, roll out individual life insurance products, branch sales activation, and systems integration to manage turn around time (TAT) and controls. To drive new business, KCB insurance will support the The cash-lite focus allows us to offer our financial services regional subsidiaries to commence Bancassurance to the over Ksh. 200 billion-turnover public service and develop capability for rolling out Personal Pension vehicle industry in a way we were not able to do before. business. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 Customer experience We have utilized Social Media platforms to reach out to our remote, tech savvy, diaspora and on-the-go customers. Our Promise: To make every customer contact a delightful With features and products such as the KCB Group App and memorable experience. and KCB Mobi Bank, we noted more interactions with customers on our social media platforms than from our We are committed to continually enhancing our contact centre. These platforms have allowed us to pick up performance in all areas that affect our customers’ numerous customer insights which we continue to use to experience. As part of this commitment, we embarked on enhance the overall customer experience. various strategic investments during the period to bring in more engagement, accessibility, availability, presence, innovation and technology for a seamless experience for Presence We are committed to ensuring that we are present our clients. everywhere our customers are as we believe this plays a vital role in enhancing their experience. We are present in Below, we expound on the various initiatives and programs the 7 Eastern Africa countries (Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, we have in place around the three main areas (i.e. Rwanda, Burundi, South Sudan and Ethiopia) as well as all engagement, availability and presence), and the impact 47 counties in Kenya. We continue to grow our networks they have had on our customers. through various services particularly agency banking KCB Mtaani. In 2015, we opened up a representative office Engagement in Ethiopia and refurbished existing branches across We continue to carry out customer satisfaction surveys the Group offices to provide a cleaner, spacious and in order to gain insights on our customers’ views on our comfortable environment for our customers. products and services, complaints and suggestions. Even though customer satisfaction dropped from 77% in 2014 One of the major challenges we experience with our online to 74% in 2016, we still managed to raise the customer customer services is system failures with an associated retention rate by 10% from 89% in 2015 to 99% in 2016. loss of contact with the customer, which has a direct impact on experience and satisfaction. In 2015, we rolled Availability out our new Customer Relationship Management system It is important to us that our customers are able to connect to address this issue. The new system has assisted with: with us at all times. We therefore continue to make changes • Gathering information on customers and being able to that will cater to our customers’ needs and improve their get better insights on their needs. experience with us by: • Having a single view of the customer. • Extended working hours across some of our branches. • Know Your Customer as part of regulatory • Operationalization of the 24/7 KCB Contact Centre. requirements. • The launch of our online portal which allows our • Real time problem resolution. customers to carry out transactions online at their • Proactive problem resolution rather than reactive. convenience. In addition, we talk to our customers via our branch hotlines and feedback kiosks, Interactive Voice Response and intelligent call routing, web chat, email, SMS, Facebook (KCB Bank Group), LinkedIn (KCB Bank Group) and Twitter (@KCBGroup). 918,000 184,000 Likes Followers 3,839,000 17,000 Page Views Followers 65 S UE L ISS RIA ATE RM OU 04 Outlook Promoting financial inclusion will continue to be a key agenda for the Group. We intend to do this by investing further in our digital capabilities by providing more services through online and mobile channels. Cognizant of the opportunities afforded by the ever-growing mobile market, we intend to triple our mobile transactions and agency footprint to enhance our digital payments. We plan on growing awareness and pushing usage of alternative channels in particular online banking and mobile banking. In addition, we have set out targets to increase mobile banking customers and grow the agency network to 20,000 agents. As KCB, we believe in continuing to explore technological avenues to further engage our clients/ customers by making their banking experience easier, faster and more manageable in the upcoming year. We look forward to creating innovative solutions in contactless card payments, cashless transport systems and enhancing initiatives towards cashless National and County governments. We shall continue with the youth engagement programs under the Bankika accounts. For 2017, we intend to further increase our customer numbers and improve our customer experience by improving customer satisfaction to 85%, maintaining employee satisfaction above 85% and growing brand affinity. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2016 General Standard Disclosure GRI Category GRI Indicator Report Page and Page reference Statement from the executive G4-1 11 – 12 Key impacts, risks and G4-2 25 opportunities Organizational Profile G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10,G4-13 16 – 21 Commitments to External G4-15, G4-16 44 Initiatives Identified Material Aspects and G4-17, G4-19,G4-20,G4-21 25, 32 – 34 Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24, G4-26 19 Report Profile G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32 4 Governance G4-34, G4-35,G4-36,G4-38,G4-39,G4-40,G4-41,G420 42,G4-46,G4-47,G4-48 Ethics and Integrity G4-56, G4-57, G4-58 47 Disclosures on Management G4-DMA 24 – 26, 28 – 29 Approach Specific Standard Disclosures GRI Category GRI Indicator Report Page and Page reference Economic Indicators G4-EC7, G4-EC8 50, 49 – 55 Environmental Indicators G4-EN1, G4-EN3, G4-EN4,G4-EN7,G4-EN8,G4-EN15, 45 46 G4-EN16, G4-EN32,G4-EN33 Social Indicators: Labour G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA9, G4-LA10 38 – 43 Practices and Decent Work Social Indicators: Society G4-SO1, G4-SO3,G4-SO4,G4-SO5,G4-SO6,G4-SO10 38 – 43, 47 Social Indicators: Product G4-PR5 32, 65 Responsibility Financial Service Disclosures GRI Category GRI Indicator Report Page and Page reference Active Ownership FS10 18 Local Communities FS14 60 – 66 67 www.kcbgroup.com
