SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY 2014 / 2015 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents ABOUT THIS TABLE OF SUMMARY CONTENTS This Sustainability Summary provides updates on the environmental, Integrating Sustainability into Business 3 social, economic and governance performance of the Group’s principal Our Management Approach to Ensure 8 operations, namely all fishing and fish processing vessels owned or Responsible Operations operated by the Group, subsidiaries in China, Peru and the United States New Governance Structure on Fishing 15 (US), as well as joint ventures in Namibia. The sustainability information Matters and Traceability and non-financial metrics included in this Summary cover two financial An Update On Sustainability Progress years from 29 September 2013 to 28 September 2015. in 2014 / 2015 Traceability 18 Product Quality And Safety 19 Responsible Fishing 21 Sustainable Production 23 Ethical Sourcing 27 Our People 34 Community Investments 38 SUMMARY | FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITYSUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY YEAR 2014 & 2015 | FINANCIAL YEARPACIFIC 2014 & ANDES 2015 GROUP PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR BUSINESS The availability of seafood resources remains the lifeblood of our business. Pacific Andes’ Sustainability Vision is to align our business growth with the sustainability of the fishery and aquaculture resources upon which we depend. As a leading industry player the Group is committed to providing a responsibly derived range of quality seafood products. At the Board level, the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee has oversight on sustainability matters and has been instrumental in ensuring non-financial risks are considered in business planning processes. The creation of a Fishing Matters Committee (FMC) in 2015 (see page 15) provided an additional channel for significant non-financial issues related to fishing matters, traceability and supply chain integrity to be escalated to AN EMPHASIS ON MATERIALITY senior management and dealt with. The Group significantly enhanced its materiality approach in 2015 At the operational level our group of subsidiaries has a strong to determine what is considered material enough for us to report network of personnel overseeing environmental management, on. The principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 employee training and wellbeing, health and safety, supply chain guidance on materiality have been incorporated into the new ethics, product quality and compliance. 2015 saw significant effort assessment process but the process itself is unique to Pacific being placed on strengthening communications between Andes. The step-by-step procedure is comprehensive yet simple, departments, which is vital for good decision-making. logical and relevant to the business. 3 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR BUSINESS The new list of relevant areas is assessed by the same questionnaire format. The rating is based Summary of Steps We Take To internal sustainability personnel utilising on the level of influence of the aspect on business Assess Materiality knowledge of the industry and the nature of global success. The scaling is aligned to the corporate risk operations of the company. Each aspect and subimpact assessment (insignificant to extreme). Step 1: Setting boundaries aspect is ranked by the likelihood of it becoming an The score results by each aspect are plotted as the Internal sustainability personnel develop a list of impact, which is a dimension used for risk X coordinate along the horizontal axis of the ESG relevant areas that may merit inclusion in management of the company. Aspects and subrisk heat map, against the average score from the sustainability reporting, which includes a review of aspects that are considered “Rare” or “Unlikely” to stakeholder assessment. The result is a risk heat all the indicators in the GRI G4 guidelines as well as occur are screened out from the list. map, that prioritises environmental, social and our own stakeholder identified indicators (16 PAC governance (ESG) issues relevant to the Group (see indicators) published in the previous sustainability Step 4: Assessing stakeholder perceptions next page for the 2015 results), adapted from the report (2012/13). For each indicator the boundary (stakeholder survey) risk priority matrix of the company to fit the GRI is set by identifying where exactly the associated The remaining aspects in the screened list of definition of materiality. This map has informed impact occurs (i.e. relevance to major operations in relevant areas are rated by chosen stakeholders in our reporting and will be used to guide the China, Peru, US and Namibia). Decision is made the format of a standardised questionnaire, on a company’s direction in its future sustainability based on applicability, relevance and sensitivity of scale from 1 to 5. The rating is based on how efforts. the impact on each entity and its associated supply important each aspect is to their perception of the chain. This exercise defines the boundary by company and the industry, which is an element to geographical locations, but not the materiality of determine materiality by GRI definition. Defining Materiality each indicator. Step 5: Plotting an ESG risk heat map Step 2: Likelihood analysis The rating from the global stakeholder All the identified topics from global stakeholder engagement 2011 has been adjusted to fit the engagement exercises conducted in the past (i.e. scale from 1 to 5, and is averaged with the rating 2011) are integrated into the list of relevant areas from the global stakeholder engagement 2015. What are identified during the boundary setting exercise, The resulting score becomes the Y coordinate What are Material affecting either to a GRI indicator or a stakeholder identified along the vertical axis in the ESG risk heat map. significant topics stakeholders indicator (PAC). All areas are then grouped into impacts aspects and sub-aspects. Step 6: Reporting global and local issues of decisions relevance Step 3: Assessing level of impacts (management The same list of relevant topics is first assessed by survey) board of directors in a materiality workshop using 4 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR BUSINESS Incorporating elements of the ESG RISK HEAT MAP company’s risk management framework into our materiality approach ensures that how we • Compliance (Environmental) assess the materiality of sustainability topics remains relevant to the business. Impact On Stakeholder's Perception/Decision • Occupational Health and • Supplier Environmental • Employment Safety Assessment • Forced or Compulsory • Training and Education • Effluents and Waste Labour • Economic Performance • Customer Health And Safety • Supplier Assessment for Labour • Compliance (Society) Practices • Products and Services • Freedom of Association and • Child Labour Collective Bargaining • Fisheries Management (Identified by Stakeholders) • Environmental Investments and • Procurement Practices Expenditures (General) • Labour/Management Relations • Investment • Marketing Communications (Human Rights) • Supplier Human Rights • Emissions Assessment (Environmental) • Anti-corruption • Labour Practices Grievance • Indirect Economic Impacts Mechanisms • Water • Energy • Security Practices Impact on the Organisation (Identified by Management) 5 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR BUSINESS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT exercise in 2015 with the Group’s The Top Ten Material Topics employees in four major locations and with two financial lenders. Through Identified by Stakeholders Engaging with stakeholders about our performance is essential to ensure we surveys and focus groups we asked our were as Follows: drive continuous improvement and stakeholders to give a candid rating of a address concerns. Working closely with list of sustainability aspects identified in 1. Environmental compliance our stakeholders is a daily commitment in the GRI G4 guidance. The feedback helped 2. Social compliance all locations we operate in from determine the economic, environmental 3. Employment customers, competitors, suppliers, and social issues considered important to 4. Supplier environmental assessment regulators, employees, trade associations, the seafood industry and Pacific Andes’ 5. Customer health and safety bankers, investors, the media, nonperformance in these areas. We have 6. Fisheries management governmental organisations (NGOs) and made these key issues a focus of this 7. Effluents and waste communities. We make use of multiple summary report, aiming to respond to 8. Forced or compulsory labour channels to communicate with these stakeholders’ expectations. 9. Training and education stakeholder groups to foster mutual 10. Occupational health and safety understanding. Yet integrating sustainability thinking into the business requires going beyond dayStakeholder’ Feedback and Expectations: to-day business interactions and identifying the broader issues that are Pacific Andes influences others in the fish industry seen as priorities for the company to address. No company operates in a Information flow from top to bottom, bottom to top is important vacuum and our stakeholders help us to We want to see pro-active communications on relevant issues in the media define how we approach responsible business planning. We completed a The current focus on supply chain and labour should remain priorities dedicated stakeholder engagement 6 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR BUSINESS In May 2015, we also engaged six of our the Asian Association of Management sustainability information flow between supplier shrimp farmers in Thailand to Organisations at our headquarters in Hong operations and Group sustainability gain an understanding of how the Best Kong. function. In 2015, we upgraded our Aquaculture Practices (BAP) standard has environmental platform and reporting benefited their operations and areas for procedures to achieve stronger internal improvement. See page 31 for further control, following a third party review by details on the BAP program. Deloitte. The enhanced transparency and reliability of data allows more Our subsidiary in Peru, Copeinca, sophisticated reporting, analysis and goalconducted panel discussions in Chicama, setting for sustainable development. Piura and Lima to identify strengths and improvement opportunities for the Pacific Andes and Subsidiary fishmeal and fish oil production business. Companies’ Memberships A total of 35 representatives from employees, suppliers, local communities, A group of Indian MBA students visited Pacific Andes • National Fishery Institute Executive Committee trade unions, NGOs, government and the Hong Kong office to gain knowledge and insights on • Peruvian National Fishery Society business management and corporate sustainability. • IFFO Responsible Supply Program media participated in the dialogues and • Ethical Trading Initiative the feedback will be incorporated into • Global Aquaculture Alliance business planning. GROUP NON-FINANCIAL DATA • Groundfish Forum (council member) CAPTURE • Mekong Club We also proactively exchange • United Nations Global Compact sustainability knowledge with major • Global Reporting Initiative academic institutions. In the past two Building on the culture of breaking silos • Global Organisation of EPA and DHA Omega 3S years, we have received representatives and working openly, the past two years • Midwater Trawl Association of Namibia from The Chinese University of Hong have seen the rapid development of an • Council of Harvest Sector Chief Executive Officers Kong, Georgetown University, Indian online environmental platform and social • Sedex Institute of Management, Ahmedabad and data capture system, which streamlines 7 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Significant resources are invested in ensuring that all our operations, directly or indirectly managed, comply with industry regulations, standards, codes of practice and other voluntary requirements to which we subscribe “from ocean to plate”. This includes fish harvesting, the purchase of raw materials, processing, packaging, logistics and sales of seafood products. Fish Harvesting FROM OCEAN TO PLATE Purchase of $ Raw Material Processing Packing Logistics Sales OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Product Responsible Sustainable Ethical Community Traceability Quality And Our People Fishing Production Sourcing Investment Safety 8 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS TRACEABILITY software and labelling systems within our factories and distribution channels (materiality topic: environmental ● Train personnel to manage traceability compliance) systems to maximise control over provenance and quality of all products The fragmented and diverse nature of Traceability systems record the batch number at every point of the production line at our Hongdao Processing throughout our value chain seafood gives complexity to traceability, as Complex. the supply chain involves a wide range of ● Work alongside customers and suppliers traceable from source and to minimise the to ensure traceability compliance through species, fishing areas, catching methods risk of illegal, unreported or unregulated contract agreements and audit procedures and players. While there is a lot of (IUU) seafood products entering our value commonality from different stakeholders ● Source where viable, species of fish that chain, we: calling for improved traceability, no single have been certified to an internationally actor or single sector will be able to solve ● Require catch certificates and authorised recognised sustainability standard based the problem on their own. It requires documents for all the raw material on the FAO Code of Conduct for better technology and tools, industry supplied to the Group, which include the Responsible Fisheries (1995), such as the engagement and government provision of vessel name and historical Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) enforcement. records, vessel license, where the fish was certification for wild caught products and caught, the date the raw material was Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) We endorse, support, promote and sold, the port of landing and health certification for farmed products participate in new developments and documentation technologies in the field of traceability. We ● Ensure all land based fillet processing ● Require documentation from suppliers facilities we operate have achieved Marine have the capability to ensure all our wild of aquaculture products that ensure Stewardship Council (MSC) Chain of fish catch and purchases are traceable traceability back to the farm site and Custody compliance in traceability, storage back to the catching vessel or group of records that show traceable movements and record-keeping vessels and catch area. For farmed fish we and origins back to parent stocks ensure traceability of product to farm site. ● Ensure that the fish that we catch are ● Invest significantly in Enterprise traceable throughout the supply chain To ensure that all products are fully Resource Planning (ERP) and traceability while still in our control 9 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS PRODUCT QUALITY AND requirements We have dedicated personnel to SAFETY implement and monitor internationally ● Testing of raw materials and products for microbial, sensory, physical and recognized food quality and safety systems (materiality topic: customer health and chemical indicators, as well as regular to ensure our products meet customer safety) third party assessment of trace specifications. Same quality standards are contaminants and heavy metals applied to all our subcontracted and From purchasing raw materials to supplier factories. The Group demands ● Extending quality and safety control processing our products, quality always that the products it sells meet uniform procedures to ingredients, packaging and comes first. Our procurement and quality high safety and quality standards, by any other items that come into contact control teams have the full responsibility means of: with fishery products to ensure consistent quality across the board under controlled processes as food ● Meeting internal quality and safety ● Conducting quality inspection and audit goes along the value chain. standards and external certification visits to supplier factories, vessels, and requirements at every stage of the farms to ensure no violation of All our products are high in nutritional seafood value chain through a network of specifications for good manufacturing value made with natural seafood and experienced quality managers and practices minimal or zero additives. We strictly auditing teams ● Fully documenting quality due diligence follow labelling rules of relevant import ● Ensuring relevant workers undergo process that records finished products by countries and samples of our products Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point the hour to enable traceability to the exact undergo third party nutritional audits. In (HACCP) training on a regular basis and time the batch of products was produced, the US, several of our breaded products build capacity for analyzing, monitoring enabling product recalls if necessary were reformulated to meet the whole and mitigating food safety risks grain requirement for the Child Nutrition ● Adhering to the latest technology Program. Information about ingredients ● Achieving certification to Global Food innovations to meet customer standards and nutritionals, in addition to what is Safety Initiative benchmarked standards in on labelling as well as barcoding for supply mandated on our packaging, is provided all processing plants, such as British Retail chain visibility on our websites. Consortium (BRC) Food Safety Standard 10 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLE FISHING levies, by-catch levies, protected species, identified risks documentation requirements, fisheries (materiality topic: environmental observers, gear restrictions, waste ● Crew members being made fully aware compliance; fisheries management) management, protection of the marine to avoid contact with seabirds, turtles, environment, and transhipment sharks and marine mammals, such as The Group’s strategy is to focus on seals, and any protected species ● Vessel monitoring systems (VMS) on catching pelagic species of fish that are ● Crew training on environmental board all vessels which send real-time regarded to be in abundant supply within practices and pollution control, in fishing information to local authorities and robust fisheries management regimes, compliance with national and enables us to avoid fishing in shallow whilst maximising operational efficiency of international maritime pollution waters and fish breeding grounds its vessels. regulations with Captains, Port Captains ● Fishing gear that minimises impact on and Engineers ensuring that we meet all We commit to understand and abide by all natural ecosystems and measures to requirements fisheries management regulations prevent by-catch and discards applicable to the exclusive economic ● Conducting a sustainability review after ● No engagement in bottom trawling commencing fishing activity in a new zones and high seas that we operate in and take increasing measures to ensure no ● Daily reporting of catch and by-catch fishery, to evaluate risks, identify new illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing data to management and local authorities regulations and make recommendations (IUU). Our measures include: to management ● Every landing of by-catch being ● Maintaining updated data on rules and weighed, recorded and countersigned by ● Providing a culture of integrity and regulations applicable to fisheries in which the master of the vessel and the inspector respect for both directly employed and we operate on board the vessel contract crew members. ● Captains being made fully aware of the ● Port Captains reporting directly to latest national and regional fisheries management in head offices to ensure management regulations regarding fishing oversight on operational compliance conditions, rules and regulations for quota issues as well as prompt response to any 11 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION (materiality topic: environmental compliance; effluents and waste) The Group ensures all environmental standards and regulations relevant to our industry are incorporated into internal management systems. We strive to identify efficiency improvements especially to reduce fish waste, packaging, energy and water consumption by: ● Conducting environmental assessments to set site-specific performance levels and measures, tailored to the hazards and risks Production lines in our ISO-14001-certified Hongdao Processing Complex, Qingdao for each project accessible to all employees vessels to reefers or during non-fishing ● Implementing environmental time ● Full utilisation of fish waste protein management systems guided by the from all facilities through fishmeal international standard ISO 14001 Our Port Captains and Engineering production or recycling programs and the personnel ensure regular class surveys and ● Incorporating energy-efficient adoption of processing techniques that equipment and water saving features in all audits are conducted to verify that all our minimise fish waste vessels are fit-for-purpose for fishing. production facilities ● Careful scheduling of fishing operations Proof of such capabilities is documented ● Systematically managing air pollutant in each fishing ground, maximising vessel on board each vessel, including emissions and wastewater discharge in utilisation and efficiency classification and minimum safe manning our fishmeal and fish oil business through certificates, oil and sewage pollution ● Ensuring optimal engine use during idle an Integrated Management System prevention certificates. times when resources are transferred from 12 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS ETHICAL SOURCING of destructive fishing methods such as ● Expecting every supplier and subdynamite and poison contracted processing plant to adhere to (materiality topic: social compliance; these standards and making every effort ● Where deemed necessary we will supplier environmental assessment) to investigate and ensure the legality of assess fisheries management practices our supply chain based on publically available data and seek We ensure raw materials that are scientific advice from relevant ● Engaging in a dialogue with NGOs and procured by Pacific Andes are caught by organisations about the stock status of governmental agencies to identify risk legal vessels and within legal quota and fisheries that make up a significant volume areas in relation to human rights and we firmly advocate sustainable fishing of our supply chain endeavouring to use our influence where practices and expect alignment of such appropriate to help eradicate malpractices views with our upstream as well as ● Ensuring, as far as practicable, that any from the wider industry downstream business partners. We strive bottom trawled fish that we purchase is to play a part in eliminating human rights sourced from certified sustainable ● Putting in place risk review procedures risks in the global fishing industry through fisheries to ensure no slavery or human trafficking supplier due diligence, sharing best cases in our supply chain ● Requesting raw material suppliers to practice and participating in industry provide proof of permissions for ● Implementing certification standards, networks. We have adopted the following commercial fishing and catch within legal including the International Fishmeal and measures to ensure supply chain quota limits as well as a catch certificate, a Fish Oil Organisation Responsible Supply oversight: health certificate and a certificate of origin (IFFO RS) standard, Friend of the Sea and ● Screening raw material suppliers against the Global Aquaculture Alliance Best ● Supplier agreements or codes of blacklist databases, which identify fishing Aquaculture Practices (BAP) farming conduct which set out expectations vessels and companies engaged in IUU standards, which ensure additional relating to legal compliance and standards fishing – if a supplier is included on any of oversight, through third-party audits pertaining to conditions of employment these blacklists we will not engage them and work, labour standards, remuneration, ● Assessing raw material suppliers on corruption and bribery, and environmental their fishing methods, prohibiting the use protection 13 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS OUR PEOPLE COMMUNITY INVESTMENT (materiality topic: employment; forced or The Group is committed to contributing to compulsory labour; training and communities in which it operates in a education; occupational health and safety) meaningful way. Where practicable, it will engage with stakeholders in those The Group commits to protect the basic communities to ensure that the Group rights and welfare of staff striving to attain understands and takes into account their a reasonable balance between work and views. The Group believes that local issues personal life. Human Resources (HR) serve are most appropriately addressed at the as a mediator between the company and local level. The Group’s commitment employees, a professional resource for includes creating economic opportunities guidance, advice and confidentiality. Our and fostering goodwill in the communities regional teams ensure full compliance in which it operates through locally with the labour and human rights laws of relevant initiatives. respective jurisdictions. Employees are remunerated well above minimum wage at a competitive level in the job market. Inspection programs are implemented in our Peru fishmeal plants to ensure working conditions are safe. 14 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents NEW GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE ON FISHING MATTERS AND TRACEABILITY In addition to our management approach, taken to rectify the situation. The operations, the FMC structure enables the Group’s governance structure on unfortunate outcome was the vessel being issues of concern to be escalated quickly fishing matters, traceability and supply listed for Illegal, Unreported and to management level, allowing for more chain integrity was significantly enhanced Unregulated (IUU) fishing by the South efficient and effective decision making. in 2015 to strengthen oversight across all Pacific Regional Fisheries Management The FMC reports to our Managing Director operations. Organisation. and the CSR Committee. “ The FMC was established with the objective of maintaining the highest possible standard of compliance across the Group’s fishing operations and supply The company has been chain. It aims to do this by breaking down silos between departments and building responding to the IUU shared responsibility by bringing together event very internal expertise in fishing, legal, public affairs and sustainability matters, as well constructively. The FMC as external advisory in supply chain policy and auditing procedures. A better has made a significant In May 2015, the Fishing Matters understanding of risks has been achieved difference in comparison Committee (FMC) was established through the institutionalisation of following an issue in response to a crisis knowledge on fishing operations and to the closed structure of that the company faced. One of our supply chain management. the company as was the vessels had entered the South Pacific open case beforehand. ” waters without prior authorisation of the Alongside the creation of the FMC there flag state, despite steps being taken to was strong support and endorsement from attain such authorisation. When it was management to strengthen dialogue across internal functions. Through Keith Sainsbury, independent advisor to Pacific realised that there had been inadequate Andes’ CSR Committee and Fishing Matters communications amongst departments enhanced information flows and a closer Committee. and between the flag state, steps were connection between management and 15 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents NEW GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE ON FISHING MATTERS AND TRACEABILITY PACIFIC ANDES FISHING MATTERS COMMITTEE Objectives (FMC) Established in May 2015 to provide advice on and evaluate issues in relation to compliance in fishing and supply chain matters. In 2015 meetings were split between FMC (fishing matters) and FMC (supply chain matters). A total of six meetings were held on fishing matters and 12 meetings on supply chain matters. Governance Structure Reports to Managing Director, Director of Fisheries and Board-level CSR Committee Head of Fleet in Peru Independent Advisor Head Of Regional General Head of Head of Legal Sustainability Managers in Peru and the High Seas (Inaugural Chair) Communication and Namibia 16 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents NEW GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE ON FISHING MATTERS AND TRACEABILITY “ Key Issues Discussed in the FMC FMC (Fishing Matters) “This new governance model for fishing matters, traceability and supply • Fishing seasons in Peru; quota allocations; discussions amongst government, industry and the scientific institute (IMARPE) chain integrity has been very useful in • Progress on dealing with IUU listing of vessel and developments with Peruvian government that it brings together key decision • Deployment of vessels in Namibia; HACCP certification and crew makers within operational teams with training; other regulatory changes in Namibia • Importance of hygiene amongst crew; career planning and colleagues and experts that have an qualifications, language and safety training • Enhancement of safety management systems understanding of and are exposed to • Maintenance of vessel registry with deployment plans • Developing a Code of Practice for Responsible Fishing; rules and industry discussions on labour issues, requirements documentation and changes in fishing regulations human rights, sustainability, and IUU matters. Issues can emerge when there is FMC (Supply Chain Matters) a lack of communication so we needed • Industry best practice on managing IUU in the seafood supply chain including engagement with retailers, guidance documents, supplier something that functioned across questionnaires and traceability systems departments, across divisions and across ” • Pacific Andes’ current traceability and supplier due diligence process • A supplier assurance policy and audit flow chart levels, thus breaking down silos.” • Assessment tools to assess sustainability and IUU risks • Mapping the supply chain in terms of the number of suppliers and associated risk levels Jacqui Dixon, inaugural Chair of the FMC and Group CSR & • Incorporating labour issues, forced labour, and human trafficking into Sustainability Manager labour policy and supplier screening process 17 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 TRACEABILITY Register, an online traceability platform and unregulated (IUU) fishing, Russian accessible to our staff in the US. For small fishing companies have to present the scale producers in our supply chain there original catch certificate confirming legal Cloud-based Solutions for was no easy solution for them on catch (IUU-CC), in order to sell to China. Aquaculture Traceability traceability before we introduced this The quantity of catch stated on the IUU-CC initiative. must match the quantity intended for Our US subsidiary, National Fish and import to China. Seafood, is the primary unit of the Group Regulatory Developments on involved in aquaculture sourcing from In the US, the Presidential Task Force on Southeast Asia. In 2015 significant Traceability Combating IUU Fishing and Seafood Fraud achievements were made in implementing published its Action Plan for Implementing cost-effective traceability software In recent years, the relevant customs and Task Force Recommendations in 2015. The technology along the shrimp supply chain inspection authorities in China introduced plan identifies actions that will strengthen to track information from pond to market, the following new requirements for the enforcement, create and expand including feed, seed and other inputs, control and traceability of imported fish: partnerships with state and local laboratory reports on water quality ● The registration system for importers governments, industry, and nonparameters and training records. Data is and exporters of imported food governmental organisations, and create a captured using mobile solutions suitable underwent an electronic upgrade in order risk-based traceability program to track for smallholder farmers. Farm group to reconcile the seller and buyer seafood from harvest to entry into U.S. managers are equipped with these mobile information on the health certificate, commerce. The risk-based traceability devices to survey the individual farmers certificate of origin, invoice and quantities program requires a set of species to be and do pre-audits to ensure they are all in of the transaction traced in the program’s first phase. As a compliance with Best Aquaculture major seafood importer into China and the ● Only seafood products stated on the Practices (BAP) standards. A barcode is US, we support the above traceability authorised list of species and country of produced at pond level and through the einitiatives and will continue to abide to all origin can be imported into China traceability module is sent to the relevant regulations and monitor future processing plant, which in turn ● As part of the Russian-Chinese developments. incorporates the barcode into Trace agreement to combat illegal, unreported 18 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 PRODUCT QUALITY AND raw materials supply to production by prioritising the purchase of raw materials SAFETY from available stocks in regions close to our processing location and requiring the Supply Chain Efficiency fastest shipment for raw materials shipped from other regions. Since the establishment of a Supply Chain Department in 2013, weekly meetings are China Food Safety Law 2015 held to enhance collaboration and efficiency among departments including The amended Food Safety Law came into purchasing, shipping and production. The effect on April 24, 2015 and is regarded as regular discussions cover a wide range of the most stringent food safety regulation topics such as exchange of market in the history of China with tighter control information as well as review of internal on traceability and imported foods. Article operations including production and 42 of the Law establishes the first legal inventory planning, customer satisfaction precedent for mandatory implementation and complaints, stock level monitoring, of traceability systems in China's food shipment timeliness, and labour turnover. industry, to combat counterfeiting, With support of our internal IT systems, adulteration, tampering, relabelling of which integrate information from all expired goods and use of illegal stages of production, the closer ingredients. Article 94 of the Law requires communication between different that importers establish a verification functions has enabled us to achieve over system for overseas exporters and 95% on-time delivery rate to customers producers, ensuring compliance of foods, and has brought our inventory to the food additives, and food related products lowest level in years. Our future initiatives Quality Control personnel in our Hongdao Processing exported to China. We continue to abide Complex ensure quality is right and according to will include shortening the lead time from by all new requirements. specification at every stage. 19 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 PRODUCT QUALITY AND Safe Quality Food Certification segregation holds for food packaging containers; upgrades to the galley, the SAFETY crew laundry room and all ablution Our US subsidiary, National Fish and Seafood, achieved the Safe Quality Food facilities; and intensive training for all crew British Retail Consortium (SQF) level 3 standard with a grade of 90% on HACCP requirements including hygiene Certification in both 2014 and 2015. SQF requires all practices and fish handling. Our products facilities to have an unannounced audit under the Pelican brand are regarded top In 2015, our Hongdao processing complex every three years. In the past two years, quality in the African market and enjoy passed the latest British Retail Consortium there were no more than 10 minor nonpreference as a result of strict quality (BRC) standard Issue 7 and achieved an A conformances in SQF audits. Our controls. Although the implementation of grade in the audit. The focus of BRC Issue subcontracted co-pack facility in Dallas is HACCP requires significant capital outlay, it 7 is to ensure consistency of the audit BAP certified and follows the same quality gives stakeholders the peace of mind that process; to encourage sites to put systems standards as our own processing plants. quality is controlled preventing major risks in place to reduce their exposure to fraud; We have been in partnership with this and ensuring the wellbeing of our crew. encourage greater transparency and facility for over 10 years. traceability in the supply chain; and encourage adoption of the Standard as a HACCP Certification in Namibia means of improving food safety in small sites and facilities where processes are still Our joint venture company Atlantic Pacific in development. All our subcontracted Fishing (APF) invested significant time and factories in China also achieved BRC resources in upgrading its vessel Leader to certification. For packaging suppliers, achieve Hazard Analysis and Critical certification in ISO 9001 Quality Control Point (HACCP) certification. Management is a prerequisite for passing Alterations took place over a six month our internal audit. period and involved the installation of stainless steel surfaces in the fish APF vessel Leader in Cape Town Port undergoing upgrades to achieve HACCP certification. processing line; the construction of 20 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 RESPONSIBLE FISHING A Precautionary Approach to most sustainably managed fisheries in the world. Fisheries Management “ The Peruvian Government has taken steps The right to fish carries In order to reduce total catch to a to better manage El Niño events through biologically and economically sustainable tighter harvest control rules and protective with it the obligation to do level, governments or Regional Fisheries measures. When the average fish size is so in a responsible manner Management Organisations (RFMOs) set big enough, the industry is able to obtain a Total Allowable Catches (TACs) based on larger fraction of the stocks via the so as to ensure effective scientific analysis of total biomass. TACs allocated quotas. In years of low conservation and are then translated to individual reproduction and juvenile fish dominating transferable quotas (ITQs) allocated to the population, a lower catch allowance is management of the living individual fishermen, which they can trade given. This ensures an adequate absolute ” aquatic resources. freely with other fishermen. Fishermen amount of fish remains in the ocean. In who operate relatively uneconomically are 2015, our vessels supported scientific Article 6.1 – General Principles, FAO Code of Conduct for likely to sell some of their quotas, while cruises conducted by the Peruvian Responsible Fisheries more economically efficient companies government to assist scientific data can purchase additional ITQs. This is often collection to set the TAC. coupled with mandatory requirements for on-board observers, electronic Vessel Monitoring Systems, reporting of catch, by-catch and proportion of juveniles to further safeguard the sustainability of fish stocks. Both Peruvian anchovy and Namibian horse mackerel fisheries, our two target fisheries, have adopted such a model and are regarded as amongst the 21 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 RESPONSIBLE FISHING additional layer of governance. See page Fish Catch 15 for details on the FMC. Catch quota Unit FY2014 FY2015 Institutionalising Knowledge Codifying Responsible Practices Anchovy Peru EEZ tonnes 911,534 489,527 with Stronger Governance in Fishing Horse mackerel Namibia EEZ tonnes 38,142 33,014 Framework Quota utilisation In 2015, we began the process of Anchovy Peru EEZ % 75% 99% Group sustainability function played an developing a Group-wide Code of Practice important role in the newly established for responsible fishing covering fishing Horse mackerel Namibia EEZ % 96% 88% Fishing Matters Committee (FMC). practices, quality and safety, marine Monthly meetings across departments security, environmental management, and country operations were held to occupational health & safety and crew discuss key issues arising from our fishing welfare. The Code references a operations. To further institutionalise compilation of best practices from the knowledge on regulatory risks in fishing, Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) the FMC developed an overview of Conventions on Fishing, the International fisheries rules and requirements for every Maritime Organisation (IMO) and fishery we operate in, providing a succinct International Labour Organisation (ILO) source of references on topics such as Conventions, as well as industry guidelines licensing and fishing authorisation, and relevant country regulations. Once national fisheries rules, as well as labour completed and adopted, all our fishing and environmental obligations. Port vessels will be internally audited against Captains and country level management the standard. ensure all fisheries rules are strictly followed, whilst the FMC reference documents and meetings will provide an All our crew members in Peru are trained on environmental practices and pollution control. 22 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION Chinese Government Another cost-saving opportunity was found in our warehouse management. Recognition Through the elimination of third party Environmental Management facilities and better planning in our own Our state-of-the-art Hongdao Processing Certification (ISO 14001) Complex in Qingdao, with the capacity to cold storage plants the initiative saved USD2.5 million, improved the overall process 60,000 tonnes of fish fillets per Our flagship processing complex in China quality of products and increased the yield year, has been ranked in the top 10 and four fishmeal plants in Peru have rate by 1.52.0%, achieving more efficient enterprises in the Qingdao city adopted environmental management use of raw materials. Our continuous environmental performance assessment systems based on the international effort in streamlining production workflow for three consecutive years. This standard ISO 14001. As part of the for efficient processing of raw materials exemplifies our continuous drive for certified system, we focus on the also achieved reduction in costs and excellence in environmental management. prevention and mitigation of energy consumption. environmental impacts. Elements of the ISO 14001 standard include an Cost Controlling and Spotlight In our fishmeal and fish oil production in environmental policy; an environmental on Energy Peru, 60% of cauldrons were replaced by a management system (EMS); identifying new technology which reduces fuel the most significant environmental In 2015, a thorough review was completed consumption. In three of our fishmeal aspects; adopting and respecting legal and on the cost structure of the Group. Energy plants, natural gas is now used instead of other requirements; setting environmental was identified as the third highest industrial oil, offering a cleaner source of objectives and targets; spending in our variable costs. Despite energy. Compared to 2013, the equivalent creating programs and continuous measures to reduce energy carbon dioxide emissions per ton of evaluating the consumption over the years, additional fishmeal produced was 93% less in 2014. environmental opportunities at our flagship processing Production Unit FY2014 FY2015 management system. complex in Hongdao have been identified Total production tonnes 268,352 211,978 and we are in the process of developing a Fish meal produced tonnes 190,451 150,888 Fish oil produced tonnes 30,473 18,183 strategic plan on energy management. Onshore production tonnes 14,032 13,564 Frozen-at-sea product tonnes 33,396 29,343 23 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION kg of carbon dioxide from being emitted Logistics and Shipment annually. Efficiency Solar Energy For the past five years we have worked In China, our Hongdao processing complex with shipping service providers that have has successfully implemented a solar implemented measures to better utilize power system with pleasing results. space, reduce costs and lower their carbon Covering 18,000 square metres, the solar footprints. Moving into a new era of Installation of solar polar on board our vessel Jadran II. panels installed on site generate 14,000strategic alliances, vessel sharing 15,000 kWh per day, which amounts to agreements (VSA) are reached between approximately 10% of the plant’s daily Vessel Fuel Efficiency shipping lines within a shipping electricity consumption. The clean energy consortium who agree to operate a Captains strictly follow the company policy service along a specified route using a solution has also brought cost savings in on how to best operate main engines on specified number of vessels. By sharing electricity of 5% per kWh. vessels to reduce fuel consumption during vessel space, shipping lines can continue In Peru, we have completed the fishing and at port. In Namibia, our fishing to provide a high level of service through installation of solar panels on two of our vessel Leader implemented a Ship Energy more efficient operations, while at the vessels – “Dalmacia” and “Jadran II”, Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP) in same time reducing carbon emissions in supplying energy to satellite locators and compliance with regulation 22 under the their trade lanes. In 2015, Maersk, a local radio on board the vessels. As part of provisions of the International Convention major shipping carrier for our China and the continuous effort to reduce fuel for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships US operations, entered the world’s largest consumption of fishing activities, the (MARPOL) Annex VI. We will also move vessel sharing agreement with initiative was started in 2013 with an towards fuel with lower sulphur content in Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC), investment of US$3,500 per vessel. The preparation for the 0.5% global sulphur which will run for 10 years and cover all shift to solar energy saves 2,113 gallons of cap expected to be implemented by the our East-to-West trades by sharing the 193 diesel per year which was used to power International Maritime Organisation (IMO) vessels of the two companies. the satellite systems and avoided 21,406 in the coming decades. 24 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION In Peru, we have employed new treatment Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions systems that make use of direct Unit FY2014 FY2015 Scope 1 tonnes of CO2 227,450 174,722 dehydration technology. It allows the equivalent Waste Water Effluents recovery of suspended solids, clarification Scope 2 tonnes of CO2 31,669 28,611 equivalent of liquids and extraction of oils from waste Greenhouse gas (GHG) tonnes of CO2 259,120 203,333 In China, our on-site waste water water by means of physical and chemical emissions in total equivalent treatment plant is inspected by relevant processes including rotary sieving, Greenhouse gas (GHG) tonnes of CO2 0.97 0.96 emissions intensity equivalent / authorities once a week and the quality of Dissolved Air Flotation (DAF) and tonnes of treated water is disclosed on a centrifugation. This technology is products government website open to public. Near Energy implemented in all fishmeal plants in Electricity kWh in '000s 43,856 40,777 our waste water discharge point, there is a Copeinca, one of our Peruvian Solar Energy kWh in '000s 3 2,064 sign indicating the name of the company subsidiaries, reducing consumption of Intermediate fuel oil (IFO) kWh in '000s 339,769 121,314 Marine gas oil (MGO) kWh in '000s 61,233 35,727 and a phone number to report grievances chemicals and energy in waste water Industrial bunker fuel No.6 kWh in '000s 37,102 26,360 to the authorities. In the US, we achieved treatment. Diesel Production kWh in '000s 216,619 179,449 Diesel Transportation kWh in '000s 1,991 884 more efficient treatment of grey water. A Petrol Production kWh in '000s 123,684 117,762 new oil separator was installed to remove Petrol Transportation kWh in '000s 1,350 786 Natural gas kWh in '000s 37,377 126,724 unwanted cooking oil from the waste Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) kWh in '000s 0.0007 0.0003 water before sending it back to the Coal water slurry kWh in '000s 1,466 0.00 municipal system. The current water Steam (purchased) tonnes 25,430 18,938 Energy intensity kWh in 3.22 3.08 applicators will also be replaced with high '000s/tonnes pressure low usage water nozzles, which of products will decrease water consumption by 25Water and waste water 50% during production periods. This will in Water consumption cubic metres 1,524,960 1,085,772 Water intensity cubic 5.68 5.12 turn reduce the demand for hot water, metres/tonnes bringing down our water intake as well as Waste water treatment systems using direct dehydration of products technology are employed in all fishmeal plants in Copeinca, Waste water discharged cubic metres 2,385,524 2,379,798 waste water discharge and natural gas Waste water recycled cubic metres 94,171 99,155 one of our Peruvian subsidiaries consumption. 25 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION initiative is underway of removing nonMaterials Consumption recyclable styro trays made of EPS Unit FY2014 FY2015 (expanded polystyrene foam) for stuffed Plastics tonnes 834 969 Managing Waste out at Sea clam items and replacing it with a 100% Paper and cardboard Antioxidants tonnes tonnes 2,651 120 2,996 138 recyclable plastic trays using HDPE (high Sodium triphosphate (STPP) tonnes 52 2 On our fishing vessels, all oily water and density polyethylene sheeting). This Detergents tonnes 206 103 Caustic soda tonnes 288 396 garbage, including fishing nets, have to be change in packaging will eliminate Refrigerants tonnes 0.84 12.43 treated according to the Garbage approximately 26,400 styro trays from the Machinery grease tonnes 10.5 11.9 Lubricants litres 309,643 394,301 Management Plan and Shipboard Oil consumer waste stream per production Pollution Emergency Plan (SOPEP) with shift and will reduce cardboard content in Waste documentation retained on board. A Non-hazardous waste tonnes 9,902 6,321 the master packaging by 10-20%. This recycled system is in place for authorized discharge project is scheduled to be launched in Non-hazardous waste to tonnes 789 1,282 of treated waste water with monitoring of landfill 2016. Non-hazardous waste tonnes/ 0.04 0.04 volumes and dates. Our vessels are intensity tonnes of equipped with up-to-date sewage products The design of master packaging for our Hazardous waste to qualified tonnes 645 174 treatment alarm systems which prevent bag items was also changed to reduce the treatment service undertreated waste water from being height of packaging to allow for more Hazardous waste intensity tonnes/ 0.002 0.001 tonnes of discharged into the sea. The Garbage items to be packed. Freight volume was products Management Plans and garbage record optimised by 10% due to the new design. MARPOL* waste cubic metres 212 272 books are monitored by the flag state We also raised our supplier standards on Environmental investments & expenditures during annual surveys. environmental aspects including the use of Waste disposal, emissions HK$millions 16.34 21.98 bio-degradable materials and recycling of treatment and remediation costs Reduce, Reuse, Recycle waste packaging. We enhanced the Prevention and HK$millions 1.75 2.01 relevant contractual guidelines and 90% of environmental management investments There is an ongoing effort to recycle our packaging suppliers now abide to the Conversion ratio packaging waste across the Group. In our updated terms on environmental 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ 1 tonne = 1000 kgs US operations, 201 tonnes of corrugated responsibility. *MARPOL is the international Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. MARPOL waste includes the following categories: plastics, food wastes, domestic wastes, cooking oil, cardboard was recycled in 2015. An incinerator ashes, operational wastes, cargo residues, animal carcasses and fishing gear. 26 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 ETHICAL SOURCING independent audit bodies to conduct the ● Seafish Risk Assessment for Sourcing audits on an ongoing basis. The ongoing Seafood (RASS) supply chain audit process will cover both ● FishSource Expert Guidance on Supply fish purchased from suppliers and fish Chain Integrity harvested by fishing vessels owned by the ● Greenpeace IUU Blacklists Pacific Andes Group. The Group reaffirms The RSRS assesses harvest strategy, stock With the establishment of the Group’s its commitment to an IUU-free supply status, by-catch management, gearing Fishing Matters Committee (FMC) in May chain. method impacts on habitat, species 2015, well-known international fisheries vulnerability, fish mortality / exploitation expert, Dr. Keith Sainsbury, was appointed Raw Material Screening on rate and the importance of the species in to advise the FMC on supply chain the wider ecosystem. IUU risk at the matters. Dr. Sainsbury is a Professor at the Sustainability and IUU fisheries level and the effectiveness of Institute of Marine and Antarctic Studies, One of the outcomes of the FMC’s supply monitoring, control and surveillance are University of Tasmania and was a longalso included in the review. A pilot test chain review process was the term Board member of the Marine development of an internal screening tool was completed in 2015 on major wild Stewardship Council, bringing a wealth of caught species purchased by the Group. to screen all fish species entering our knowledge and experience in fisheries When fully developed, the RSRS will value chain. The Responsible Sourcing management, traceability and IUU provide our procurement teams with a Ranking System (RSRS) developed by prevention. During the period covered by science-based tool to assess risk in the Pacific Andes assesses seafood this summary, the FMC conducted a supply chain. sustainability at species, fishery and vessel review of the Group’s supply chain policies level. The following independent and the appropriate audit standards to be assessment tools form the basis of the adopted. A trial test of the audit RSRS: framework was completed with a group of suppliers at the end of 2015. The planned ● IUCN Red List of Threatened Species next phase will review appropriate ● Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch 27 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 ETHICAL SOURCING rights. Our suppliers also undergo third ● Working conditions are safe and party audits when requested by hygienic customers. Over 60% of our Certified Sustainable Product subcontracted factories and 30% of our ● Child labour shall not be used Range supplier factories in China comply with the ● Living wages are paid Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). ETI is an ● Working hours are not excessive In our ongoing effort to supply and alliance of companies, trade unions and promote sustainable species and voluntary organisations working in ● No discrimination is practiced products, we increased the percentage of partnership to improve the lives of ● Regular employment is provided certified products in our global supply workers across the globe. The ETI Base chains. In our Hong Kong and China ● No harsh or inhumane treatment Code includes the following criteria, which operations, the sourcing of Marine is allowed abiding companies are audited against on Stewardship Council (MSC) certified a regular basis: seafood went up from 57.06% to 77.34% In the US we have preference for minority ● Employment is freely chosen companies and companies owned by out of the total volume of raw materials sourced. For aquaculture products, 100% ● Freedom of association and the right to women. These companies make up 10% of farmed shrimp, tilapia and pangasius collective bargaining are respected of suppliers for our US operation, mainly that we procure are Best Aquaculture providing local raw materials to our US Practices (BAP) certified. production facilities. In Peru, we contribute to promote the development of local suppliers through purchasing from Managing Labour Issues Down companies in the provinces where our the Supply Chain processing plants are located. Induction and training programs are delivered to 100% of our suppliers are expected to suppliers aiming at improving their comply with contractual agreements, management, products and services. which include clauses to protect worker 28 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 ETHICAL SOURCING Spotlight on Forced Labour in the Seafood Sector With the dramatic rise in labour issues being featured in the media and high profile cases of forced labour and human trafficking in the seafood sector, we expanded the scope of the FMC to include labour practices in its Workers in a shrimp processing plant, one of our suppliers in Southeast Asia review process. Our raw material supplier agreements already had clauses on labour and human rights. and shrimp production, including wild capture fisheries Thailand was the first country where we screened for fishmeal, fishmeal processing, feed processing, suppliers specifically on forced labour risk. In 2015, our hatchery inputs, shrimp farms, primary processing, any US subsidiary, NFS, underwent a pilot to test out the secondary processing and export. The screen ranked our Labour Safe Screen, a confidential B2B service to screen Thai supply chain as low to moderate risk, with a high seafood supply chains for risk of human trafficking. The demonstration of knowledge from the suppliers of entire supply chain for Thai shrimp exports to the US was production, inputs and origins, as well as oversight for all included in the review and covered all aspects of feed facilities and transfers of raw material and product. 29 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 ETHICAL SOURCING Certified products Unit FY2014 FY2015 IFFO certified fishmeal and fish oil produced % by tonnes 99.3% 99% FOS certified fishmeal and fish oil produced % by tonnes 99.3% 99% MSC certified wild catch sourced % by tonnes 54.1% 65.4% BAP certified farmed products sourced % by tonnes 93.4% 92.8% Sourcing Origin Unit FY2014 FY2015 Raw materials Anchovy Area (87) Pacific, Southeast % by tonnes 68.7% 77.7% Pollock Area (61) Pacific, Northwest % by tonnes 24.8% 20.1% Herring Area (61) Pacific, Northwest % by tonnes 4% 0.8% Pink Salmon Area (61) Pacific, Northwest/Area (67) Pacific, Northeast % by tonnes 1% 0.1% Other** Various origins** % by tonnes 1.5% 1.3% Processed products Shrimp Argentina/Bangladesh/Brazil/Brunei/Darussalam/China/Ecuador/Guatemala/Guyana/Hon % by tonnes 63.5% 56% duras/India/Indonesia/Mexico/Myanmar/Pakistan/Panama/Peru/Philippines/Suriname/Tai wan/Thailand/United Arab Emirates/United States/Viet Nam Pollock Argentina/China/Russian Federation/United States/Viet Nam % by tonnes 7.2% 12.8% Tilapia China/Indonesia/Mexico/United States/Viet Nam % by tonnes 7.7% 11.4% Swai Canada/Viet Nam % by tonnes 3.3% 3.3% Other*** Various origins*** % by tonnes 18.1% 16.5% **Other raw materials refer to Argentine Red Shrimp/ Arrowtooth Flounder/ Black Cod/ Chum Salmon/ Cod/ Coho Salmon/ Halibut/ Mussels/ Rock Sole/ Salmon/ Sea Bass/ Squid. Various origins refer to Area (21) Atlantic, Northwest/Area (27) Atlantic, Northeast/ Area (41) Atlantic, Southwest/ Area (51) Indian Ocean, Western/ Area (61) Pacific, Northwest/ Area (67) Pacific, Northeast/ Area (81) Pacific, Southwest. ***Other processed products refer to Arrowtooth Flounder/ Catfish/ Chum Salmon/ Clams/ Cod/ Crab/ Croaker/ Flounder/ Grouper/ Haddock/ Hake/ Lobster/ Mahi Mahi/ Mixed Seafood (consists of mussels, shrimp, salmon and pollock, along with rice and other ingredients)/ Mussels/ Orange Roughy/ Perch/ Pink Salmon/ Saithe/ Salmon/ Scallops/ Sea Bass/ Snapper/ Sole/ Squid/ Swordfish/ Tuna/ Turbot/ Whiting/ Yellowfin Sole. Various origins refer to Argentina/ Brazil/ Canada/ Chile/ China/ Dominican Republic/ Ecuador/ France/ Iceland/ India/ Indonesia/ Mexico/ New Zealand/ Nicaragua/ Norway/ Peru/ Philippines/ Russian Federation/ Taiwan/ Thailand/ United States/ Viet Nam. 30 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 ETHICAL SOURCING Thai Shrimp Sustainable Supply Chain Task Force adapt the BAP certification work of maintaining systems in In 2015, our US subsidiary, NFS, joined the Championing standard to be more applicable place, record-keeping and proper Thai Shrimp Sustainable Supply Chain Task Sustainable to smaller scale operations. documentation is all very new for While disease management and small farmers. During the period Force (Task Force), formed to address illegal, unreported and unregulated Aquaculture with access to clean post larvae under review, we have remain a challenge, the farmers conducted 19 training seminars fisheries and labour abuse in Thai shrimp Small Farmers recognise the benefits of gaining to educate 313 suppliers on best BAP certification in terms of management practices to achieve supply chains. Comprised of key industry Over the past eight years, our US improved documentation, BAP certification and training stakeholders drawn from seafood subsidiary NFS has supported its record-keeping, inputs control started for another 1150 farmers. processing, importers, and retail suppliers in achieving Best and yield as well as better access We also provide support in Aquaculture Practices (BAP) to international markets and HACCP and customer audits and businesses, the Task Force is working to certification with an emphasis in higher prices. Our BAP supply provide the farmers with develop robust, actionable solutions Southeast Asia. BAP is a sciencechain is now made up of some traceability mobile technology to focused on three objectives: based standard that assures safe 1500 farms, track input materials down the and healthy food production 8 hatcheries and 3 feed mills, supply chain. NFS’ personnel ● Implement Track & Trace systems with through environmentally and providing us with over 15,000 time and financial investments in international verification socially responsible means. NFS metric tonnes of raw materials. our small farm program are at no has invested significant resources Our small farm program is financial cost to the farmers. We ● Drive Thai Port Codes of Conduct with in building capacity amongst its underway in Vietnam, Thailand believe that the cutting-edge suppliers on sustainable and India and NFS is the only work we are doing with our international recognition company engaging with small suppliers now will become the production methods and strengthening supplier farmers in India in such a way. benchmark for seafood ● Drive Fishery Improvement Projects in relationships. It has also helped producers in coming years, the Gulf of Thailand and Andaman Sea to sustain small and medium Despite the many benefits, raising the bar for the entire gaining certification requires a industry and benefitting tens of farmers by working with the certain amount of resources and thousands of small-scale standard setter, the Global time for the farmers. The extra producers. Aquaculture Alliance (GAA), to 31 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 ETHICAL SOURCING NFS Sustainable Aquaculture Milestones Meet One of our Farmers 6 years ago Kun Bee 2008 became a farmer and Began to encourage shrimp suppliers in started to manage a Southeast Asia to obtain BAP certification shrimp farm after her husband introduced her to shrimp farming. In Thailand around 10% 2012 of farmers are female. Collaborated with Global Aquaculture Alliance Shrimp disease has (GAA) to establish, fund and pilot an Integrated been a major challenge Module (IMO) program, in which medium sized farms of 25 ha each can be grouped together to for her, especially white be BAP certified and save on audit costs spot and Early Mortality Syndrome (EMS). But the BAP program has allowed her to apply strict standards, to organize the farm better and get better pricing. This has 2014 contributed to supporting her livelihood Launched the small farm program, which and meeting her personal aspirations, provides small farms of 1-10 ha each with including building up a home and sending technical and financial assistance and guidance on feed, seed, production planning and farm her kids to school. Kun Bee manages a management in accordance to the BAP standard shrimp farm in Trang, Thailand and is a A supplier shrimp farmer in Trang, Thailand in our small farm program supplier to NFS. 32 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 ETHICAL SOURCING Identifying Strategic Projects and Raising Retailer Awareness The Group sustainability function was included in the corporate cross-departmental SWOT analysis process in 2015 and out of the ten strategic projects identified, two were focused on the promotion of sustainable seafood and traceability. Leveraging on our capacity to supply sustainably certified seafood to Asian markets coupled with the lack of awareness and understanding of these certifications amongst Hong Kong retailers, Pacific Andes hosted a sustainable seafood event in Hong Kong. It brought together seafood suppliers, customers, academics and NGOs and was instrumental in raising awareness about the importance of supply chain integrity and how seafood certification standards such as the Marine Stewardship Our speakers and host of the Sustainable Seafood Seminar, from left to right: Benny ChuChuen, Keith Sainsbury, Council (MSC) and Best Aquaculture Practices Jessie Ng, Maria Schäfer, James Baros, Kelvin Ng, Jacqui Dixon. (BAP) can ensure traceable and sustainable seafood sources. 33 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 OUR PEOPLE academic qualifications. Our wages have our Namibian joint venture company, been benchmarked to be at least 25% Atlantic Pacific Fishing (APF), submitted its “ higher than countries’ legal requirements. second Affirmative Action Plan. We are Being an employer that has In Namibia, the Affirmative Action pleased they have reached the a good reputation in the (Employment) Act requires employers to government’s targets as a result. prepare a three year affirmative action community as not only a good plan and submit it to the Employment place to work but a place Equity Commission. Affirmative action where employees are valued is refers to measures designed to ensure that persons in designated groups, such as essential. Employees will be previously disadvantaged workers, women loyal to an employer that is and persons with disabilities enjoy equal ” fair, ethical and supportive. employment opportunities at all levels of employment and are equitably represented in the workforce. In July 2015, Office staff of our Namibia Joint Venture, Atlantic Bailey Kaplan, Human Resources Manager, National Fish Pacific Fishing (APF) and Seafood Fair and Equal Workplaces Regional Distribution of Employees PRC The Group has a long-standing FY2015 Peru commitment to equal opportunity and intolerance to any forms of discrimination. China Fishery Fleet The basis for recruitment, hiring, FY2014 Namibia placement, training, compensation and US advancement in all operations is 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 performance, skills, experience and No. of employees 34 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 OUR PEOPLE Crew Wellbeing Our internal and external audit procedures We ensure all crew have a valid seaman ensure compliance against internationally book and have received survival training recognised labour standards, including the before working on board. In addition to Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit competitive salary levels, our crew (SMETA) Best Practice Guidance and members receive extra bonuses for fish SMETA Measurement Criteria, as well as unloading and completion bonuses in cash. the Business Social Compliance Initiative For vessels that operate in the high seas, (BSCI) in relevant operations and other since most fishing locations are far from customer requirements. Sedex refers to an our crew home country, we cover all costs online information and exchange for of their insurance fee, working visa and businesses committed to continually flights. A certain allowance is given in cash improving the ethical performance of their every month for sundries and phone cards. supply chains. SMETA incorporates the Any deductions to crew salaries are made Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code. with proper documentation with acknowledgement by the crew. In Peru, 32% of all land-based staff are Labour Ministry of Namibia with several members of Copeinca’s National Labor trade associations including NASAWU and Union. In our fishing operations in NFI & FWU following an industry-wide Namibia, 100% of crew are members of strike. Under the signed MoU seamen trade unions, namely the Namibia Seamen must be paid overtime rates, including and Allied Workers Union (NASAWU) and Sundays and public holidays, as well as fish the Namibia Fishing Industries and commission. Atlantic Pacific Fishing (APF) is Fishermen Workers Union (NFI & FWU). In one of the very few Namibian fishing 2015, a memorandum of understanding companies that paid overtime and shift (MoU) to improve seamen’s wages and allowance to crew before the MoU was working conditions was signed by the established. Emergency drill held on board in Namibia 35 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 OUR PEOPLE In Namibia, the APF office is now fully deck. During 2015 we replaced the last staffed with Namibians and through general grade foreign crew and competent Strategic Human Capital intensive training, we made good progress Namibian crew have been promoted to towards the Namibianisation of our crew. the position of second Bosun, third Officer, Development and third Engineer. Achieving 100% The Group strives to provide a learning The percentage of Namibian crew Namibian crew on board will be a longer environment through comprehensive increased from 36% to 64%. During 2014 term goal as it takes years for a captain or training programs that promote learning, we placed 20 crew in training to become chief engineer to complete formal studies. safety, productivity and personal career first line junior officers, supervisors, development. Upskilling crew and workers engine room greasers and seamen on in relevant operations enhances employees’ practical skills in meeting operational needs, whilst building capacity for higher industry standards. In 2014 / 15, Training Hours per Employee 1250 training sessions, which total nearly No. of hours of training per employee 4.0 3.7 71,250 man-hours, were conducted 3.5 globally. There was a 37% increase in 3.0 2.9 2.6 training hours per employee from 4.6 2.3 2.4 2.4 2.5 FY2014 hours in 2014 to 6.3 hours in 2015. We 1.9 2.0 1.8 provided executive coaching to managers, 1.5 FY2015 superintendents and heads of 1.5 departments in Peru to develop soft skills 1.0 0.6 in leaders. We also introduced sales 0.5 0.1 0.1 reinforcement training on a weekly basis 0.0 and management and leadership training Health, Safety Technical or Management Orientation Quality IT or SAP on a monthly basis in the US. and Wellbeing Operational Skill Skill Management Categories 36 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 OUR PEOPLE Occupational Health and Safety The Group is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace and dedicated to maintaining a productive environment. We offer medical examinations for workers that are involved in occupational activities considered to be high risk for occupational diseases in all our processing operations in China and Peru, as well as for crew operating in the high seas. A health and safety policy, safety audits and training are in place in all processing and fishing operations. Fishmeal plant in Chicama, Peru ensuring all workers and crew are provided with protective equipment. Promoting Staff Wellness and Team Building In our Hongdao processing complex in China, times a week. Kick-boxing and personal free meals are provided to staff and the training classes are also made available and a canteen service has been outsourced to vending machine with nutritious options for achieve better quality meals with a survey snacks and meals has been installed. In the conducted every quarter. Based on feedback Hong Kong office, a Team Building and Staff we work with the catering service company to Wellness Committee was established in 2015 diversify and enhance meal options for our to promote staff performance and cross Members of our Hong Kong office participating in an artemployees. In the US, a Cross Fit trainer is departmental cooperation. Two team building jamming event in 2015 organised by the Staff Wellness available at the onsite fitness facility three events were held in the year. Committee 37 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents AN UPDATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN 2014 / 2015 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Creating Economic Opportunities Investing in our Communities In Peru, we worked closely with the (ACUISUR), which provided technical Fishmeal and Fish Oil Producers’ training, and the Aquaculture Fishermen Pacific Andes supports the development of Associations (APROs), which are Association of Sechura (Afrepac), which local communities in the regions in which we comprised of major companies in the brings together 17 social organisations of operate and believes that local issues are sector, to develop social, economic and artisanal fishermen. The seaweed most appropriately addressed at the local environmental programs in local harvested can be used for human level. The Group’s commitment includes communities. Our Peru subsidiary consumption and industrial purposes creating economic opportunities and fostering Copeinca currently chairs the Chimbote, such as thickeners, gelling agents, and goodwill through locally relevant initiatives. Chicama and Sechura APROs. Given that additives. The initiative will benefit some Education remains the focus of our Groupnutrition is a vital part of learning, one of 250 artisanal fishermen in the area and wide Community Investment Framework. In our projects, Adopt a School Kitchen, in also contribute to the reduction of 2014 / 15 a total of 48 community investment alliance with the Ministry of greenhouse gases since seaweed programs amounting to US$1,375,180 were Development and Social Inclusion, absorbs carbon dioxide and releases implemented, in which 400 employees and implements school kitchens. To date, we oxygen into the atmosphere. 61,426 beneficiaries participated globally. have developed kitchens in four educational institutions in the towns of Community Investment in FY2014/15 Planchada and Pescadores. 5.7% 3.0% APROs In 2015, Copeinca supported a seaweed farming project in the town of Bayóvar to Education promote economic opportunities among 37.6% Health Care, Basic artisanal fishermen. The project was Needs, Nutrition developed in strategic alliance with the Seaweed farming project in the town of Bayóvar Miscellaneous South Seas Aquaculture Company supported by Copeinca, our subsidiary in Peru 53.7% 38 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents Contact Us We value your feedback and comments about our Sustainability Report and overall sustainability journey. Questions or comments can be addressed directly to sustainability@pacificandes.com. HEADQUARTERS Pacific Andes International Holdings Limited Room 3201-10, Hong Kong Plaza 188 Connaught Road West Hong Kong (T) +852 2547-0168 (F) +852 2858-2764 http://www.pacificandes.com/ SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY | FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 & 2015 PACIFIC ANDES GROUP Back to Contents
