Going Green: We take it personally for Sustainability Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2016 (Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability) 1 ABOUT OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This compilation is the sixth Sustainability Report by Orient Overseas (International) Limited (“OOIL”), which manifests our continual commitment to sustainability, transparency and accountability. Scope of the Report Reporting Period This report covers the significant environmental, 2016 Calendar Year economic and social aspects of the business arising (From 1st January 2016 to 31st December 2016) Orient Overseas (International) Limited | Sustainability Report 2016 from the principal activities of OOIL and its subsidiaries (the “Group”). It also reports on the key sustainability strategies, objectives, management approaches and Reference Guideline initiatives taken by the Group to improve our performance in sustainability, transparency, and This report is prepared with reference to the accountability. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This year, our scope of reporting has been adjusted to prepare for the commencement of the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide set out Date of Issue in Appendix 27 of Main Board Listing Rules on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. June 2017 Major subsidiaries fully owned by the OOIL Group in 2016 2 CONTENTS 1. Chairman’s Message 3 Contact Us 2. Our Business 4 We value and appreciate your feedback. If you have any comments about our Sustainability Report, please send them by: 3. Corporate Governance 8 Post to: Orient Overseas (International) Limited 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre 4. Stakeholder Engagement 16 25 Harbour Road Wan Chai, Hong Kong 5. The Environment 19 Email to: ENVENQ@oocl.com Telephone on: (852) 2833-3838 6. Health & Safety 32 This report can be downloaded from our website at: http://www.ooilgroup.com/corporate/environmentalprotection 7. Security 36 Orient Overseas (International) Limited | Sustainability Report 2016 Published in June 2017 8. Our People 39 This Sustainability Report has been translated into Chinese. If there is any inconsistency or ambiguity between the English version and the Chinese 9. The Community 45 version, the English version shall prevail. 本中文版可持續發展報告為英文版本譯本，如中、英文兩個版本有任何抵觸或不 相符之處，應以英文版本為準。 10. Sustainable Development Goals 55 11. Targets Review 58 12. Performance Data Summary 59 CORPORATE 13. HKEx ESG Reporting Guide Index 64 MEMBER 2017 Chairman’s Message 3 CHAIRMAN’S T h e En viro n men t MESSAGE Our Group continues to address the impending issues relating to global warming, air pollution, biodiversity and marine environment degradation, and energy consumption which present critical environmental challenges. We recognise that businesses must take responsibility for their industry’s effects on the environment. H ealt h & Saf et y We go the extra mile to ensure that safety is not compromised in all our business operations, may it be onshore or at sea, including people, cargo, ships and facilities. Secu rit y The issue of security has always been a priority for the Group and we remain committed to the security of our operations against possible compromise and to the maintenance of the highest level of compliance in security related areas. Ou r Peo p le Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 In our commitment to further build on our Environmental, Social and We strictly adhere to the ethical rules and principles in our business Governance (ESG) profile, we will be and all our employees are committed to a high level of professional standard in every aspect of their work. We provide our people with formulating our Sustainable extensive and equal opportunities as well as an appropriate Development Goals (SDG) to environment to achieve work-life balance. contribute to tackling global T h e C o mmu n it y environmental challenges we face across industries. We recognise that the societies in which our employees live and work contribute greatly to the Company’s overall success. So the care and attention that we give to these communities are a major corporate focus to ensure all our stakeholders are respectfully accounted for. Tung Chee Chen Chairman Hong Kong, June 2017 4 Our Business OUR Segment Information The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics. BUSINESS Container transport and logistics include global containerised shipping services in major trade lanes, covering Trans-Pacific, Australasia, TransAtlantic, Asia-Europe, Intra-Europe and Intra-Asia Trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow of goods. Business Description Liner Services Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd. (OOCL), a wholly owned subsidiary of OOIL, is one of the world's largest integrated international transportation and logistics companies. Its trunk and intermodal services join seamlessly to offer transportation services to all the major trading economies of the world. Logistics Services As a world-class provider of innovative logistics and supply-chain services and solutions, OOCL Logistics has an extensive network of more than 130 offices in over 30 countries. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Providing advanced customer-specific solutions through our value-creating Orient Overseas (International) services and IT technology in supply-chain management, our dedicated and Limited (“OOIL”), a company with experienced professionals focuses on serving customers with global sourcing and supply-chain-management needs, creating value through innovative endUS$5.3 billion in total revenues, has to-end international logistics programs. principal business activities in We are also a leader in providing sophisticated transportation, warehousing container transport and logistics and distribution services in the mainland China, offering professional and services. OOIL is listed on the Hong efficient 3PL and 4PL solutions. As a global company based in Asia, OOCL Logistics is exceptionally positioned to serve both international and domestic Kong Stock Exchange with 23 major customers in the world's fastest-growing markets. Corporate Shareholders and has Ports & Terminals Operations more than 330 offices in 70 countries. A global network of terminals complements OOCL's vessel, office and intermodal network. We operate dedicated terminals in North America and Asia, namely: Long Beach Container Terminal, LLC. (LBCT LLC) in California, United States and Kaohsiung Container Terminal (KAOCT) in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. Our Business 5 Orient Overseas (International) Limited | Sustainability Report 2016 In 2016, Liner Volume Terminals Throughput 6.08 million TEU 2.4 million TEU 6 Our Business Key Relationships with Customers and Suppliers Top 10 Countries with the Highest Number of Suppliers from the Group “Customer focus” is one of the core values of the Group. We believe in long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with our customers and strive to help create value for our customers through collaboration to enhance customer competitiveness. This is achieved by seeing things from the customer’s perspective, trying to understand their business and anticipate their requirements. All employees are trained to be proactive in meeting customers’ expectations and responding with a sense of urgency. “We Take It Personally” is not just a slogan at OOCL, but also an attitude that all employees are encouraged to adopt in dealing with our customers. Each year we recognise hundreds of employees around the world for displaying initiative and going beyond the call of duty to meet our customers’ needs. It is the Group’s policy to maintain a diversified customer base across all geographical regions and trade lanes. A key risk indicator (“KRI”) of customer concentration was developed in the year 2016 and is included in the functional risk dashboard for the Group’s liners business which is being monitored on a monthly basis. Different tolerance limits for the KRI are set for regions, trades and the organization as a whole. Overall speaking, the level of customer concentration in 2016 was acceptable. As at the end of 2016, OOCL had approximately 29,000 active customers. In the Group’s relationship with suppliers, we put special emphasis on the supplier selection process in which both quantitative and qualitative factors are considered objectively, independently and openly, according to the Group’s highest ethical Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 standards. Pricing is not the Group’s primary consideration; instead, the Group focuses its attention on the suppliers’ quality service, safety and ethical standards. “Excellence through quality” is another core value of the Group. While we endeavour to provide the best quality service to our customers by setting high standards for ourselves, we demand the same high standards from our suppliers. It is also the Group’s policy to maintain a diversified supplier base across all geographical regions. In 2016, the Group developed supplier management KRIs to monitor supplier concentration in different regions and poor supplier service. Cases of supplier service failure were shared among employees to alert them to the importance of communicating our expectations to the suppliers and taking the right remedial mitigating actions. Overall speaking, the level of supplier concentration in 2016 was acceptable. As at the end of 2016, OOCL had approximately 20,000 active suppliers, which are based in the diverse regions and they are illustrated by geographical region as shown in the chart below. Approximately 7.3% and 18.5% of the Group’s total expenditure on purchases of goods and services for the year are attributable to the largest supplier and five largest suppliers respectively. Our Business 7 My OOCL Center We understand that buyers and suppliers have to lower their costs, react quickly to market changes and operate a high-speed supply chain in order to meet the formidable challenges. My OOCL Center (MOC) is an online tool offered by OOCL to enhance the interaction with all key parties involved in a shipment, thus helping customers become more cost efficient and ultimately more competitive. MOC’s innovative “dashboard” user-interface enables customers to easily monitor and control all the interactions regarding their shipments. MyPodium App MyPodium App is designed specifically for use by the International Supply Chain Management customers moving cargo and shipments with OOCL Logistics. It is the mobile extension of our MyPodium internet-based supply chain visibility and purchase order management information technology. MyPodium App allows the customer to view, track and trace the latest progress of important purchase orders, shipments, and merchandise anytime, anywhere with their smartphone devices. It gives them on-the-go access to exceptions, status updates and fast communication with their logistics network around the globe. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 OOCL Lite App OOCL Lite is one of OOCL’s customer-focused and innovative IT products developed by CargoSmart™, an independently-operated company with OOCL investing in the development of the solution platform. OOCL Lite allows users to: access real time sailing schedules, cargo and vessel tracking data, port schedules, rates of exchange for the selected voyage, detailed container specifications, carbon calculator functions, shipment details, and corporate news at their finger tips. OOCL Lite is available for download at the App Store (iPhone / iPad) and Google Play (Android). The demonstration videos can be viewed in English on the OOCL YouTube Channel and in Mandarin on Youku. 8 Corporate Governance C O R P O R AT E The Group is committed to honesty, integrity and fairness in GOVERNANCE everything it does, and expects all employees to know and adhere to the standards. Governance Framework OOIL is committed to conducting its business in accordance to high ethical standards and the Company considers that effective corporate governance is an important part to corporate success and the enhancement of shareholder value. The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set out in the Corporate Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”), also incorporates and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 The Board comprises of three Executive Directors, one Non-Executive The OOIL Group believes that the Directors and five Independent Non-Executive Directors. More information success of our Company is built on can be found in our 2016 Annual Report, under the Corporate Governance Report section. the commitment to a high level of ethical and professional Code of The OOCL Executive Committee (EXECO) comprises members of the top management team and is led by the Chief Executive Officer. The EXECO Conduct. Our customers judge our sets the corporate agenda and also reviews the macro issues related to the Company not only by the quality of environmental and social initiatives undertaken by the Company. the products and services we provide, At OOCL, the formation of our Safety, Security and Environment Protection but also by the professional conduct (SSE) organisation reflects our strong commitment on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). and business ethics of our employees. The organisation is structured with a Corporate SSE Steering Committee at the corporate level and a Regional SSE Committee for each region. The Corporate SSE Steering Committee’s role is to set direction and policies for safety, security and environment protection and ensure the proper execution of related corporate directives and policies in all corporate departments and regions. Respective Corporate Functional heads of the committees will work out the directions and policies for review and endorsement by the Corporate SSE Steering Committee in order to ensure compliance of the concerned functional areas in each corporate region. Corporate Governance 9 The Steering Committee is chaired by a Global Safety, Security and Core Values Environmental Protection Officer (GSSEO), who will take a proactive role in supporting all relevant SSE legal and regulatory requirements. The OOCL has four core values that are central to everything the Company GSSEO would advise the Corporate Steering and Regional Committees does. The core values are: of the latest regulatory, market and competitive developments and coordinate SSE policies and implementation efforts with the relevant People, People, People Corporate Functional Departments and Regions. The GSSEO would also Customer Focus report to the EXECO on key issues and latest SSE developments in the Excellence Through Quality Group. Community Responsibility Risk Management Framework OOIL has set up procedures to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks that may have an impact on the business of the Group. On behalf of the Board, the Risk Committee sets the direction for risk management. Key risks are owned, identified and assessed by the functional units. The mitigating response proposed by functional units are checked, measured and monitored by the Risk Management Department. Key risks identified are reviewed regularly by the Group’s management. The effectiveness of the risk management system is assessed by the Internal Audit Department. The Board conducts a review on the effectiveness and adequacy of the risk management and internal control systems by reviewing the work performed by the Risk Committee and Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Audit Committee on an annual basis. Our Policies Our Philosophy We believe that our strategies and approaches to sustainable development drive a long-term value creation for our business and stakeholders. Our core value on Community Responsibility is underpinned by our Corporate Safety, Security and Environment (SSE) At its core, any activity in the Group is guided by our Mission Policy and supported by our Sustainable Procurement Policy. These Statement and Core Values. policies are primarily focused on addressing the risks and opportunities in our business and incorporate the economic, environmental and social approaches to sustainability into our decision-making process. Mission Statement To be the best and most innovative international container transport and logistics service provider; providing a Vital Link to world trade and creating value for our customers, employees, shareholders and partners. 10 Corporate Governance Safety, Quality and Environment Management System Corporate Safety, Security and Environment (SSE) Policy OOCL was the first container shipping line in the world to have achieved OOCL goes the extra mile to make safety and security a top priority in the Safety, Quality and Environmental Management System (SQE) our business operations, onshore and at sea, including people, cargo, certification which consolidates the International Safety Management ships and facilities. We maintain the highest safety and security (ISM) Code, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 requirements. standards and recognise that businesses must take responsibility for their industry’s effects on the environment so OOCL proactively demonstrates our concern for the environment at every level of our Sustainable Procurement Policy organisation. We are dedicated to promoting sustainable and responsible practices and OOCL is committed to: our Corporate Sustainable Procurement Policy has been implemented in every aspect of our business and at every stage of the supply chain to • Apply industry best practices, and go above and beyond manage and assess environmental and social risks. compliance with relevant rules and regulations on Safety [1], Security [2] and Environment [3] OOCL is committed to: • Establish and improve safety, security and environment objectives and targets • Reducing harmful pollutants and emissions • Proactively promote an Onboard Safety Culture and engage in the • Promoting greater environmental sustainability at every stage in the highest levels of training supply chain by conserving resources • Participate fully in the prevention and suppression of security • Promoting awareness among our suppliers of our expectations with threats against supply chain operations under our control and regard to Safety, Quality and Environmental Protection carry out risk assessment on a continuous basis • Promoting ethical sourcing practices • Use resources [4] efficiently and apply innovative voluntary • Contributing back to our community measures to minimise the impacts on the environment and natural Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 resources • Regularly communicate our SSE Policy to all staff and business Vendor and Supplier Selection partners throughout the supply chain • Continually re-assess and upgrade our SSE commitments Under our vendor and supplier selection mechanism, a self assessment • Serve our stakeholders by assessing their needs and providing of the potential contractor must be completed to confirm their compliance information to our Safety, Security, Environmental and Social Guidelines, where on• Take every precaution to avoid any health and safety risks in site verification of their facilities may be conducted if deemed necessary. business activities and services to employees, business partners Once compliance is confirmed we would review and work with our and communities vendors to ensure compliance levels are maintained. OOCL evaluates opportunities for working with responsible business partners to achieve our sustainable procurement objectives at every Not only does our customers judge our Company by the quality of the level of the supply chain. We also strive to ensure that our commercial products and services we provide, but also by our professional conduct. relationships are formed with partners that share our values on safety, We believe that the success of our Company is built on the commitment security and environmental care and sustainable business practices. and high level of ethical and professional standards of our employees. The objective of our Corporate Guidepolicy is to set the Code of Conduct [1] ‘Safety’ includes but is not limited to the providing of a safe working that we expect from each employee in every location where we operate, environment to protect employees from occupational hazards. regardless of the employee’s position or level. [2] ‘Security’ includes but is not limited to the preventive measures to ensure security onshore and onboard, as well as cyber security. [3] ‘Environment’ includes but is not limited to air and greenhouse gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. [4] ‘Resources’ includes but are not limited to energy, water and other raw materials. Corporate Governance 11 OOCL Code of Conduct (Summary) OOCL is committed to honesty, integrity and fairness in its business 4. Managing Conflict of Interest conduct and organisation management. OOCL also maintains the § Staff must declare and report any conflict of interest, directly or highest standards of professional ethics and integrity in dealing with its indirectly, that may impact fair business dealings and objective customers, vendors and partners. decisions. Where such conflicts exist by circumstances, alternative arrangements must be made to ensure fairness and objectivity. Highlights of OOCL’s Code of Conduct: 5. Adherence to high ethical standards by respecting rights and 1. Legal Compliance dignity of all persons with whom we deal. Specifically we respect § Comply with all applicable laws and regulations in the countries in the provisions of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights which the Company operates. and the Conventions of the International Labour Organization in regard to: 2. Prohibition of Bribery and Corruption § Do not accept or offer gifts of material value, entertainment, or § Elimination of all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour other gratuities of worth from or to business partners, in exchange § Freedom of employment & association for business opportunities or any privilege that can raise doubts as § Respect for the individual and elimination of discrimination through to objectivity and fairness of business decisions. Such offers embracement of diversity in workplace include, but not limited to, cash, gifts, business opportunities or § Safe and healthy working conditions contracts, travel, entertainment and other expenses. Anyone § Payment of living wages and regular employment entitlements aware of or suspect a violation must report to the competent § Non-excessive working hours authorities in the Company. 6. Assurance of non-disclosure of the Company’s business, 3. Political Contribution customers and financial information and no misappropriation of our Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 § We do not make any offer, payment or gift of material value, or tangible or intellectual property. promise of such, directly or indirectly, to any government or public official, political party or its representatives, candidate for political 7. Commitment to OOCL’s Safety, Security and Environment (SSE) or governmental office. Policy. Whistle-Blowing Framework Extortion, Fraud, Money Laundering & Other Related Crimes Under the Group’s whistle-blowing policy, employees may report any The guidepolicy of Code of Conduct requires all employees to comply concern regarding accounting, internal accounting controls and auditing with any laws, rules and regulations that are aimed at preventing, matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation. detecting and remedying economic crime and, in particular, fraud, This framework helps ensure that the Group complies with all the extortion, money laundering and other related crimes. Employees must applicable laws and regulations, accounting standards, accounting not engage criminal activities nor choose to ignore them. We ensure that controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each all our business practices and operations are in full compliance with complaint and decide on how the investigation should be conducted. In relevant laws and regulations and during the reporting year, no such year 2016, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees. crimes have been discovered. 12 Corporate Governance Anti-Corruption Human & Labour Rights In the interest of adhering to the highest ethical standards, the Group has As a responsible corporate citizen employing the highest standards of a formulated Code of Conduct which serves as a guideline to ensure business ethics in all that it does, the Group understands that the process compliance with all local, national and international legal standards and to begins with the treatment of its employees. As a successful corporation, preclude offences under local, national and international laws, any the Group appreciates that its success, growth and performance are breaches of confidentiality, non-disclosure requirements or intellectual attributable to the skills, dedication and teamwork of its employees. It property rights and any conflicts of interest, acts of bribery, corruption or regards people as its greatest asset. The Group is committed to ensure political contribution and any other areas of deemed misconduct. our people are treated with dignity and respect. Therefore, Human and Labour Rights is an important element to our Corporate HR Guidepolicies We take bribery and corruption very seriously. The Group’s Code of in which it serves as a guideline to ensure compliance with all local, Conduct has a chapter on “Bribery and Corruption” which provides a clear national and international legal standards. In particular, we respect the guidance on how to conduct business in an ethical, fair and legal manner. provisions of the Declaration, Compact and Principles from the United The Company will regard any violation of this policy as a serious matter Nations in respect to human and labour rights # and the Conventions of and it is likely to result in disciplinary action, including termination, the International Labour Organization with regards to: consistent with local law. We also have region-and-function-specific training on anti-corruption for our employees to take. • Elimination of all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour • Freedom of employment & association In addition, we have set up procedures to identify, manage and control • Respect for the individual and elimination of discrimination risks that may have an impact on the business of the Group. The Group’s • Safe and healthy working conditions “Whistle Blower Policy”, established in 2006, is one of our formalised • Payment of living wages and regular employment entitlements procedures through which employees can anonymously file reports or • Non-excessive working hours register concerns and helps govern the reporting and thorough investigation of allegations of suspected improper activities. Other chapters, such as, “Code of Conduct”, “Equal Opportunity in Employment”, “Prohibition of Harassment” and “Grievance Handling Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Our current approach is considered to be effective and sufficient. We Process “ are also incorporated in the Corporate HR Guidepolicies and have not received any reported cases of corruption within the Group and communicated to our employees through new-hire orientation, training we ensure that all our practices are in full compliance with relevant laws and Group’s intranet. and regulations. Although our industry is less vulnerable to corruption, we continue monitoring and reviewing our policies and practices to maintain We have not received any reports on non-compliance or grievance “zero corruption”. We would also evaluate whether it is necessary to related to Human and Labour Rights issues in the reporting year. In our launch anti-corruption risk assessments for our existing and new global approach to protecting the right of our people, we periodically monitor and offices, business partners, vendors, suppliers and agencies. review our employment practices to safeguard the best interest of our people and to ensure that we continue to be in full compliance with the related laws and regulations in order to maintain ‘zero incidents’. We Operational Risk Assessment constantly monitor and evaluate if it is necessary for us to launch risk assessments involving human rights and labour issues for any existing, The purpose of the Operational Risk Management guidance is to align new and/or potential operations or projects. with the EXECO directive to implement an Operational Risk Management process and report operational risks. By integrating Operational Risk Management into our daily business activities, we can prevent and # For example: The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and minimise harm to people, loss to business and damage to environment Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights from The UN Global that may arise from our operations. Compact Operational Risk Management shall be implemented company-wide and reports back to EXECO on a quarterly basis through the SSE Committee. All corporate functional departments and regions are to be accountable for identifying, assessing, controlling, reviewing and reporting operational risk areas that fall under their respective functional and regional scope. While an accident summary is one source where risks can be identified, this directive encourages a fresh look at our operations to identify new risks while managing existing ones. Corporate Governance 13 Grievance Handling Process strict observance and adherence to established procedures so as to maintain fairness and consideration and to minimise any potential The guidepolicy of Grievance Handling Process is in place to define and disruption to our operation. An employee observe certain standards of job formulate the framework for handling grievances raised by employees performance and professional conduct as specified in Code of Conduct, and ensure that all such matters can be resolved in a fair, consistent and Employee Handbook and other local Human Resources policies. For first expeditious manner and in strict confidence. Any complaint or grievances time offenders, the Company will endeavour to provide employees with will be promptly and thoroughly investigated by the immediate supervisor necessary guidance and opportunity for correction. However, if the or Human Resources Department or any other person as appointed by employee fails to improve, he/she may be subject to disciplinary action the Company. The investigation will be communicated with relevant and in cases of serious misconduct, be subject to summary dismissal. employees through channels deemed appropriate by the Company determines that a complaint is founded or grievance has occurred, appropriate relief for the employee bringing the complaint or grievance Data Privacy and Intellectual Property Rights and appropriate disciplinary action against the source of complaint or grievance will follow. Complaint or grievance matters can be extremely We have ISO 27001 Information Security Certification and evaluated our sensitive and as such, all communications such as interviews and witness information security management system to protect our customer and statements will be kept confidential. business data privacy from cyber risks. The Group’s Code of Conduct ensures intellectual property rights are observed and protected. This The Company will strive to ensure that there will be no retaliation or policy assures that there is non-disclosure of the Company’s business adverse action taken against the employee who raised the complaint or and customers information and that there is no misappropriation of our grievance by providing information in confidence. The Human Resources intellectual property. Department is actively involved in the consultation and resolution process to ensure a proper settlement. Commitment to Product and Service Responsibility In line with the Company’s core value on People, People, People, which takes into consideration of equal opportunity, respect and dignity of all The Company is committed to honesty, integrity and fairness in Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 employees in a supportive environment, this guidepolicy is to define and everything it does. We support fair trade and operation practices; and formulate the framework for handling workplace grievances raised by ensure that our advertising, marketing and communications materials are employees to ensure that all such matters can be resolved in a fair, appropriate, updated and in compliance with government regulations and consistent and expeditious manner and in strict confidence. industry best practices; and provide an appropriated and updated. Our guidepolicy on advertising is defined and formulated according to a Any complaint or grievance over inequitable treatment, procedural framework to ensure that all advertising projects and related matters are unfairness and infringement of Human and Labour Rights (linked to Code in line with our fair trade and operation practice as well as in compliance of Conduct) in the workplace will be promptly and thoroughly investigated with applicable government regulations and industry best practices. by the immediate supervisor or Regional HRA Department, or any other person as appointed by the Company if independent investigation and/or We are also committed to adhering to the principles set out in our Safety, arbitration is necessary and appropriate. The result of such an Security and Environment (SSE) Policy which outlines our operating investigation and/or arbitration will be communicated through channels principles that employees can follow to maintain high standards of health deemed as appropriate by the Company to the employee . If employees and safety in the work place in order to avoid any associated risks to the feel particularly vulnerable, grievances can be lodged anonymously. Company’s business activities. We strictly comply with the requirements of relevant laws and regulations Disciplinary Action related to the product and services we provide to our stakeholders . The Group is not aware of any material noncompliance with relevant laws and The guidepolicy of Disciplinary Action defines and formulates a system of regulations on health and safety, advertising and privacy matters related progressive disciplinary actions on instances of non-compliance by to products and services provided during the reporting period. So there employees who have repeatedly failed to meet conditions of employment. was no any redress action undertaken. Our policy ensures that when administering disciplinary actions, there is 14 Corporate Governance Guidelines for Safety, Security & Environmental Care (SSE) Incident Competition Compliance Reporting Competition law compliance is an integral part of business for all Incidents may occur in our business operations that threaten life, cargo corporations operating in the global market place. Under the vigilance of and property. Through SSE Incident Reporting, we can capture incident our Competition Compliance Committee and the Competition Compliance trends and lessons learnt so we can prevent the same from happening in Working Team, we have systematically and thoroughly implemented and other regions and in the future. enforced OOCL’s Competition Compliance Policy to ensure that all our practices are in full compliance with competition laws. All incidents related to safety, security and/or environment should be reported according to escalation matrix in our Corporate Emergency OOCL has developed and implemented our competition compliance Response Plan (CERP). Types of reportable incidents include: program which includes the establishment of guidelines and mandatory training of employees to ensure our practices are in compliance with • Fatalities competition legislations. • Staff work injuries (incurring lost workday(s)) • Truck / feeder / rail / land facility accidents with injuries • Fire accidents causing serious property damage Customer Identity Verification • Security threats and breaches • Environmental pollution / contamination to water and to land OOCL is committed to enhancing shipment security and customer • Cargo / container accidents which cause or threaten to cause injuries, relations. Our booking acceptance policy and the Customer Profile (CPF) security breaches, pollution and serious property damage. verification guidelines are the foundation to providing a clear accountability of each functional unit in verifying the validity of each customer and its legal identity against sanction lists, including those Shipboard Safety, Quality and Environmental (SQE) Monitoring and under the United States (U.S.) and European Union (EU). In addition, a Reporting procedure has been developed to oversee the status of the CPF records and to switch them into an inactive status when they are not being utilised within two years. In order to ensure the entire supply chain is well Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 According to our certified Safety, Quality and Environmental Management System (SQE) (equivalent to OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001), it controlled and managed, we are continuously refining our policy and is required all of our vessel to implement and maintain the Shipboard workflows. Safety, Quality and Environmental Monitoring and Reporting. Our SQE Coordinator is responsible for monitoring of vessel safety and environment protection. Upon receipt of all Master's Reviews from vessels Customers Feedback Handling the SQE Coordinator shall carry out a study of the Reviews. The SQE In line with our Customer Focus core value, we treasure all feedback from Coordinator also has to instigate necessary follow up action and report our customers. To facilitate the collection of customer feedback, we have such action and recommendations to the Fleet Management Department added a “Customers Feedback” page on our corporate website at in headquarters. www.oocl.com. The purpose of this process is to ensure feedback from customers will be Inspection Policy on Dangerous Goods (DG) Containers handled in an organised and timely manner so that appropriate action can be taken to address their concerns. Feedback may generally fall into two To increase the safety of our employees, customers’ cargo and main categories; namely appreciation and complaints. Complaints may be properties on shore and at sea when carrying DG containers, the SSE service-related or on our code-of-conduct. Proper records on handling Steering Committee has decided to apply a random inspection policy on customer feedback must be maintained to enable us to learn from DG containers. The inspection program will raise awareness of cargo experience. safety amongst shippers, contribute to safer cargo transport and reduce risk and costs arising from DG incidents. Corporate Governance 15 Sustainability Strategy As we continue to build on our efforts and accomplishments on environmental management the development of this Sustainability Report highlights our desire to move towards a more integrated l Transparency approach to sustainable development. Developing our Sustainability Strategy has been an important step to l Compliance l Energy Efficiency further integrate sustainability considerations into our l Governance l Resource Consumption business decision-making process. l Accountability l Carbon Footprint l Stakeholder Engagement This Strategy is driven by our corporate philosophy l Climate Change l Code of Conduct and we feel that there is a need to further enhance l Marine Biodiversity our initiatives and bring our approaches to l Fair Operating Practices l Recycling environmental management, economic development l Sustainability Reporting l Pollution and social responsibility together into a more l Commitment l Waste coherent structure, under the umbrella of sustainable l Water development. In the process of defining what sustainability means to the Company, it significantly helped steer how we set our plans and goals for the future. The result is the formulation of some key sustainable development priorities to initiate while setting targets and plans for each department in the Company to embrace and execute. Going forward, the development of our Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy will continue to be refined according to the views of our stakeholders and objectives of the Company. l Communities l Responsible Sourcing l Health & Safety l Human Rights l Security l Employee Relationship l Dangerous Goods l Employee Development l Anti-piracy l Emergency Response l Cyber Security 16 Stakeholder Engagement S TA K E H O L D E R Our Stakeholder Engagement Pathway Listening and working with our stakeholders are imperative measures to ENGAGEMENT ensuring the effectiveness and accuracy of our Sustainability Strategy. We establish strong communications to engage with as wide a variety of stakeholders as possible to gather their feedback for our assessment. We liaise with all interested and related parties such as our customers, business partners, employees, suppliers, shareholders and communities to identify which stakeholders to focus on and what issues are most important to them so that we may handle and report on them accordingly. As presented in the table that identifies all the major stakeholders and the significant initiatives undertaken by our Company, it clearly demonstrates the wide spectrum of stakeholders we work with and the level of commitment we have to the communities to ensure that their concerns are properly accounted for. Our Engagement The benefits of stakeholder engagement on an ongoing basis are tremendous for our business. It helps us identify the key issues that should be addressed and prioritised towards the shaping of our corporate sustainable development strategies. Over the years, we engaged with a wide spectrum of stakeholders through a variety of pathways, tackling climate change and improving fuel Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 efficiency. We will continue to reinforce our stakeholder engagement process We place a high priority on and communications with them regarding our sustainable development stakeholder engagement and initiatives in order to understand their views and better meet their expectations. recognise that it is fundamental to understanding the impact our business has on the communities in which we operate as well as the potential issues that may affect us. So reaching out to our stakeholders is imperative to achieving our business and sustainability objectives and we take every effort to gather their concerns and incorporate their views in our sustainable development strategies. Stakeholder Engagement 17 Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 • Participating in the Voluntary Speed Reduction Program to significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions • Participating in the fuel switching schemes to lower sulphur emissions • Supporting the academic community in oceanographic research • Collaborating with industry bodies and environment-focused organisations on responsible business practices • Sharing of our carbon footprint and greenhouse gas (GHG)# emissions data in a credible and transparent manner • Offering the OOCL Carbon Calculator for customers to estimate the carbon footprint in their supply chains • Adopting high energy efficient vessels, equipment and machineries • Monitoring of responsible sourcing practices from our suppliers • Enhancing environmental performance indicators for all global business units • Studying feasible initiatives and technologies in our operations to address climate change • Working with the environmental-focus organisations to improve the carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxides calculation methodologies • Employing the external checker to verify the major environmental data disclosure • Informing our customers to be aware of GHG Scope 3 emissions from their upstream activities • Enhancing corporate Environmental, Social and Governance reporting framework and its disclosure. • Supporting industry best practices to curb the trade of endangered and protected marine species. • Supporting observatory and meteorological organisations engaged in marine climatology and climate change studies. # The emissions of six main greenhouse gases (GHG) are addressed by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), namely carbon dioxide (CO2); methane (CH4); nitrous oxide (N2O); hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6); also include a seventh greenhouse gas nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) from the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. 18 Stakeholder Engagement Key Issues from Operations Engaging with a diverse group of stakeholders over the years has helped us identify the social and environmental impact that are relevant to our business. The diagram below illustrates the various sustainability issues from different operational components in our business. Environmental Issue Safety, Security and Health The most significant impact from our operations is in the consumption of Safety, security and health issues have always been of paramount non-renewable fossil fuels that generate air pollutant and greenhouse importance and a first priority at our Company. We link our approach to gas emissions. Efforts to restrain the impact on air quality and climate quality and contingency planning. We employ a number of guidelines, change have been focused on improving our vessels and facilities. procedures and precautionary measures to focus on safe operations Handling of dangerous goods is also another major environmental both on shore and at sea, preventing any possible threats to security concern. The environmental impact from our on-shore activities are that are associated with transport operations. derived from emissions produced by our trucking and machinery operations, consumption of large volume of water, and hazardous The Community chemicals from our maintenance works. We contribute extensively to the development of communities in Hong The Business Kong and around the world. We help develop and maintain a sense of communal identity through various activities such as partnering with a As a leading integrated international transportation and logistics variety of charities and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) company, our business strategy incorporates concerns from our around the world, sponsoring academic projects, and supporting customers, employees and suppliers. Our business success is employee volunteering initiatives. dependent on our commitment and response to address the concerns and interests of key stakeholders. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 l E1 air quality l E2 carbon emissions l E3 carbon footprint l E4 energy efficiency l E5 energy use l E6 hazardous waste l E7 marine biodiversity l E8 noise impact l E9 waste l E10 water consumption l S1 dangerous goods l S2 health and safety l S3 security l B1 customer issues l B2 human resources l B3 procurement l B4 regulatory compliance l C1 academic sponsorships l C2 charity partnerships l C3 community investment l C4 research partnership The Environment 19 THE We are committed to comply with all environmental regulation and requirements related to our operations. We encourage and expect the highest discipline and professional conduct from our employees, crew and vendors to ENVIRONMENT take responsibility for their actions and comply with their environmental obligations. Details on environmental compliance in relation to air and greenhouse gas emissions, discharges into water and on land, and the generation of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are found in Section 12: Performance Data Summary of this Report. Managing Carbon Footprint and Harmful Emissions We believe that by taking a proactive role in caring for the environment, we can help reduce the consumption of natural resources, minimise our discharges, wastes, greenhouse gas emissions, as well as other pollutants regulated under national laws and regulations, such as sulphur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other particulate matters (PM), to make the world a better place to live for ourselves and future generations. Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions are widely associated to its effect on global warming and climate change which are major challenges that affect everyone. Although climate change presents challenging obstacles, we also see opportunities for innovation. Over the years, we have made use of our knowledge and experience to create greener services to improve energy efficiency beyond our own operations. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 We recognise that businesses must take responsibility for their industry’s New Environmentally Friendly Technology Designs effects on the environment. Our We believe that clean technology will make an important contribution to Company is dedicated to meeting environmental protection, such as reducing the level of greenhouse gas the needs of the present without emissions. OOCL works hand-in-hand with shipyards and naval architects to implement new environmentally friendly technology designs on our vessels. compromising those of the future. We encourage sustainable economic development through innovative environmental care measures. 20 The Environment Using Low-sulphur Fuel OOCL is fully compliant to the EU, North America and IMO mandated requirements of using 0.1% or lower sulphur content fuel in all SOx Emission Control Areas (SECA). We are also compliant to the requirements of using 0.1% sulphur content fuel when our vessels are berthed at designated EU ports. Also, we strictly comply with the Air Pollution Control (Ocean Going Vessels) (Fuel at Berth) Regulation is the first in Asia, mandating fuel switching at berth where vessels over 500 gross tonnage must switch to using 0.5% or lower sulphur fuel in the auxiliary engine(s), generator(s) and boiler(s) when berthing at the Hong Kong port. It is also hoped that this regulation will pave the way for the establishment of an Emissions Control Area (ECA) in Asia, a more sustainable and longterm solution to effective and lasting air quality improvements in sync with international best practices as seen in Europe and North America. OOCL vessels also ensure that the sulphur content of our fuel is well Cold Ironing (Alternative Maritime Power) below the IMO prescribed standard of 3.5% when sailing in the high seas. In 2016, OOCL achieved an average sulphur content of 2.52%. All of OOCL's new buildings currently under construction are installed with Alternative Maritime Power (AMP) Systems, also known as “Cold Ironing”, which allows the vessel to use shore-supplied electricity instead of Investment on Climate Change and Environmental Protection burning fuel when at berth. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 We see businesses that take a proactive role in encouraging and According to the Port of Los Angeles, the use of AMP technology has managing current and future economic, environmental and social demonstrated an average reduction of 95% in NOx, SOx, and PM development through innovation will prosper as leaders in a highly emissions per vessel call and helped nearby communities improve air competitive and changing global business environment. Therefore, OOCL quality. In the first two years of their AMP program, over 80 metric tons of is very serious about sustainability investing. pollutants were eliminated at the Port of Los Angeles. Furthermore, we understand that businesses must take responsibility for their industry’s effects on the environment. Our Company is thus Initiatives to Reduce Nitrogen Oxides dedicated to meeting the needs of the present without compromising those of the future. Despite a period of consistent deterioration in Since 2000, all our vessels have been installed with environmentally profitability for the industry, we continue focusing on green investment friendly NOx-controlled propulsive engines while advanced slide fuel which includes fuel-efficient vessels, energy-saving terminals, eco-friendly injection valves are also being adopted to help reduce NOx emissions by machineries and equipment. By doing so, we believe this reinforces our 30%. commitment to customers that we offer them the best service quality with the least impact on our environment. The Environment 21 Environment Friendly Features on OOCL New Buildings – 13,208TEU • EEDI(Energy Eﬃciency Design Index) : about 45% less than IMO Baseline • DFOC(Daily Fuel Oil Consumption) : about 20 % less than similar size ships ESD (Energy Saving Device) STAR (Samsung Tip Advanced Rake) Propeller • ‘Green Passport’ and ‘Enviro’ notation app High Efficiency SARB (Samsung Asymmetric Rudder Bulb) High Efficiency and lower cavitation ICMS for enhanced machinery Full Spade Rudder Control & Monitoring High Efficiency & Cavitation free Frequency-controlled Cooling SW pump for electric efficiency Two-Island Arrangement • Higher propulsion eﬃciency (Shorter Shaft) Low Sulphur fuel oil tanks • Higher Crew Comfort (Less Noise & Vibration in D/H) & Marine Gas Oil system • Enhanced Visibility & Safer Maneuvering Homogenizers for fuel saving & sludge oil reduction R-407C Refrigerants • Zero Ozone Depletion • Less Global Warming Potential Orient Overseas (International) Limited | Sustainability Report 2016 AMP uses clean Halogen free type electrical cables energy during port against toxic gas emissions in case of fire Ballast Water Treatment System • Robust and Pioneering application of IMO BWM Convention IBTS (Integrated Bilge water treatment system) • To minimize oily water generated in E/R Shaft Generator (PTO) • Air type Stern Tube with Bio-degradable for fuel oil saving Lubricating Oil Most Reliable Structural Design Latest most efficient Engine • Advanced Structural Analysis • State-of-the-art Technology • Enhanced Fatigue Design HFO Double Protection • Revolutionary fuel saving fully satisfying IMO Regulation Eco-Friendly • Three operating modes for fuel optimization Anti-Fouling Paint • High eﬃciency Turbo Charger with EGB • PMI auto tuning for optimized fuel oil consumption Enlarged Sewage Holding Tank for Redundant Bow Thrusters for Prevention of Sea Pollution at Port Enhanced Maneuverability at Port Advanced Hull form & Bulbous Bow • Optimization for full range of operating draft 22 The Environment Green Passport and Life Cycle Assessment The Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) (also known as the Green Container shipping is the most environmentally sound way to Passport) is a crucial requirement of the Ship Recycling Convention. With transport large volume of goods across the world. Most of the an aim to aid safer and more environmentally sound recycling of ships, world’s manufactured goods and products travel by container ship such inventory helps the recycling facilities formulate a safer and more and, when this startling fact is considered, the relative impact environmentally sound plan for decommissioning the ship. upon the environment is low in comparison to other modes of transport. Most of our vessels do own the “Green Passport”. This inventory identifies, locates and lists out all hazardous and potentially hazardous material onboard a vessel. An appointed Classification Society will issue “A Statement of Compliance” (SOC) once IHM has been reviewed and having this SOC means that shipowners are aware of the hazardous and For example, for every kilometre that a container ship carries a ton of potentially hazardous materials on board the vessel and will make efforts cargo, it is far more energy efficient and emits much less in the way of to reduce the amount of these materials throughout the vessel’s lifespan. harmful CO2 emissions than any other type of freight transport, It is also very useful in managing the health risks posed to onboard crew including airplane, truck and train. It is estimated that on average a as well as the unnecessary risks brought to the environment. container ship emits around 40 times less CO2 than a large freight aircraft and over three times less than a heavy truck. Container Obtaining Green Passport for our vessels demonstrates our responsibility shipping is also estimated to be two and a half times more energy in the ship recycling industry. For example, ships sold for scrapping may efficient than rail and seven times more than road. contain environmentally hazardous substances such as asbestos, heavy metals, hydrocarbons, ozone-depleting substances and others. As the IHM identifies all hazardous and potentially hazardous material onboard a vessel, it helps reduce the health, safety and environmental risks where the ships are being recycled. Weather-routing Systems for Safer and Shorter Routes Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 In addition to the adoption of clean technology in our operations, the best We invest in sophisticated weather routing systems to avoid bad weather way to reduce emissions in the shipping industry is to save fuel and we and to take the shortest route possible to our destinations. If a vessel hits have been focusing on our bunker saving programs for many years. By a storm or a typhoon, naturally it will be slowed down – perhaps from taking these initiatives, OOCL has cut carbon dioxide emissions by more involuntary speed resistance from high winds, or voluntary slowdown to than 45% since 2004. In addition to reducing our emissions, we are able avoid damage to the vessel – and as a result the ship will tend to burn to help our customers achieve a lower carbon footprint in their supply more fuel and be less efficient. With these systems, the Captain can chains. avoid bad weather areas by planning the best routes possible. CO2 Intensity from Vessel Operations Regular Hull Maintenance and Cleaning Marine growths, such as barnacles, molluscs and algae, can weigh a ship -46.7% down which in turn lead to more fuel consumption. We carry out regular maintenance on our ships to keep the hull completely clean and free of such growths. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The Environment 23 Optimum Trim (balance of cargo) and Minimum Ballast Ballast Water Management Program One way that we can burn less fuel is by maintaining the optimum trim All container ships discharge ballast water, which can contain organisms and minimise the use of ballast. An optimum trim is the balance of cargo that are harmful to the environment. on board a vessel and if the load is too heavy at one end, the imbalance can result in more fuel being used to sail. Hence, we devise and We have a policy of exchanging ballast water only in the open sea (200 implement sophisticated cargo loading plans to achieve the optimum trim. nautical miles away from the nearest coastline) and aim to achieve zero ballast water exchange when berthed at the port. Moreover, the minimal use of ballast water can also help achieve a lighter vessel load and better trim of ship draughts by good stowage, thereby burning less fuel. Ballast Water Treatment In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control Respect for Biodiversity & Marine Environment and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediment (BWM Convention) to prevent and eliminate the risk in the introduction and dispersal of invasive species into habitats where they do not belong. In addition to the introduction of treatment standards over the coming years, the IMO convention specifies a set of criteria for the treatment process to We are committed to environmental measures that respect make sure at least 99.9% of all living organisms carried in ballast water aquatic biodiversity. are killed or removed before being discharged. To help lessen the harm to the marine environment, OOCL has been actively exploring different kinds of technologies to effectively treat ballast water that is in line with our environmental policy. Onboard Waste Management Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 At sea, we incinerate waste onboard by using appropriate equipment, OOCL Containers such as food dispenser, garbage compactor and incinerator that are in accordance with the MARPOL Convention requirements. At port, we Today, OOCL only uses CFC-free refrigerants for all of our refrigerated dispose waste to facilities that are authorised by the port authority. (reefer) containers. OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power consumption in the industry. All our containers have been We continuously monitor the amount of sludge and aim to reduce waste applied with tin-free paint and we also introduced the use of eco-friendly being generated by the vessel. Hence, specialised equipment, such as bamboo floors instead of the traditional hardwood ones. homogenisers and oil purifiers, are used to minimise the development of sludge. The Environment and Natural Resources Using Non-Toxic Hull Paint Our policy encourages us to help minimise potential impacts of operational activities on the environment and the natural resources OOCL always uses environmentally friendly and non-toxic hull paint on through innovative environmental care measures. We are committed to our vessels to help protect marine life. environmental measures that respect aquatic biodiversity and natural environment. OOCL continually invests in environmentally friendly All our ships have been painted with tribulytin free paint (TBT-free) that equipment such as ballast water treatment, and uses sustainable are also both tin and copper-free. OOCL is constantly striving to improve materials, such as non-toxic paint, bio-degradable stern tube oil and the marine environment by implementing a policy for all newbuildings to bamboo flooring, to help protect marine environment and forests. In use silicone-based foul-release paint. addition, our Group proactively takes part in ecosystem restoration project such as tree planting and replanting of coral and mangrove. 24 The Environment Use of Resources Our Group has set out policies to use resources efficiently, including energy, water and other raw materials. Our Group actively minimises the consumption of electricity, fuel and other raw materials in vessels, terminals, warehouses and offices. We continue focusing on green investment which includes fuel-efficient vessels, energy-saving terminals, eco-friendly machineries and equipment. Each regional office of our Group has their own local recycling initiatives. In order to reduce fresh water consumption, our vessels utilise onboard desalination plant to convert seawater into potable water. By doing so, we believe this reinforces our commitment to customers that we offer them the best service quality with the least impact on our planet. Approaches and Initiatives OOCL Terminals Following our tradition of best practices, our Long Beach Container Terminal (LBCT LLC) continued to exceed all environmental requirements 2016 also ushered in some small, but important steps forward in by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the State of sustainability. For example, the terminal successfully deployed a new California’s Air Resources Board (CARB), and the Port of Long Beach’s coupling system for our few remaining yard tractors serving the On-Dock (POLB) Green Port Policy in 2016. Railyard which eliminated the need for the drivers to exit their tractors to connect and disconnect the brake airlines. This, combined with our Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 LBCT took a giant leap forward in environmental stewardship when the improved railyard design, has reduced the number of yard tractors first phase of our MHRP project went live in April 2016, ushering in what needed by approximately 30%, further reducing the emissions related to is demonstrably one of the greenest container terminal in the world. With the terminal. This reduces costs for the terminal while benefitting the the inaugural call of the OOCL Long Beach, the vessel was plugged into environment, standing as a perfect example of the best type of shore power (AMP) to mark the first ever Zero Emission vessel call at environmental stewardship. LBCT. With the all-electric cranes and fleet of Automated Guided Vehicles (AGVs) powered by clean energy sources the containers were moved, LBCT’s achievements were recognised by the U.S. Environmental sorted, and stored until certified “Clean Trucks” were ready to pick them Protection Agency (EPA) and selected LBCT to be the recipient of nearly up for transport throughout the country. US$ 1.5 million in funding to expand our fleet of Zero Emission AGVs in order to move cargo through the MHRP in the most environmental friendly In June of 2016 the first phase of LBCT’s On-Dock Rail Yard also went way possible. Such recognition of our efforts by one of the strictest live, allowing a large number of containers to be moved to and from the environmental regulatory agencies in the world helps highlight not just the terminal via double stack trains thus reducing the use of the Clean Truck success of our green initiatives, but also celebrate the real impact we fleet by hundreds of trips per day. have on improving the environment in the community. In November of 2016, we were joined the Mayor of Long Beach and The last pre-2007 yard tractors at LBCT’s Pier F facility have now been dignitaries from the community and the Port of Long Beach in flipping the removed from service. Our entire remaining fleet of yard tractors is now switch to activate the new Solar Carports which cover the parking spaces equipped with engines meeting or exceeding the 2007 On-Road in LBCT’s North Operations and IT (NOIT) Building, and our Marine emissions standards, again among the cleanest in the world. Operations Building (MOB). These photovoltaic panels have the capacity to produce 905 kW for at least the next 25 years, and represent the first of At LBCT, from the executive level to the newest front-line manager, many two phases of solar installation at the MHRP. of our staff actively engage in a wide variety of outdoor activities. Our dedication to the company, coupled with our love of the outdoors means that when it comes to sustainability, we Take It Personally. The Environment 25 In 2005, our Kaohsiung Container Terminal (KAOCT) in Taiwan had converted its entire container yard to a “green” enterprise by replacing its straddle carriers operation with electric rail mounted gantry cranes (RMGs) to improve energy and operational efficiencies. As a result of the improvements made over the years, electricity consumption throughput decreased by 19.7%, from 17.3 kWh/TEU in 2005 to 13.9 kWh/TEU in 2016. Currently, there are a total of 20 electrically powered RMGs in the terminal on a fixed-rail system and these gantry cranes are emission-free, quiet, and provide a much safer working environment at the port. The equipment has not only helped improve energy efficiency but also terminal efficiency as shipside productivity improved by 9.3% from 2005 to 2016 and during this same period, the annual throughput also increased by 67%. This has enabled KAOCT to effectively handle more vessels at berth and the higher productivity level helped shorten the vessel berthing period to achieve bunker saving as well as emission reduction. Green Features of New OOCL Logistics Center in Guangzhou The new OOCL Logistics Center in Guangzhou, China is part of our strategic initiative to enhance our logistics capabilities and enlarge our domestic logistics footprint in the country. In contributing to environmental protection objectives OOCL Logistics invested heavily in green facilities for the warehouses at the Center. For example, skylights are used to provide natural lighting during the day to reduce electricity consumption and ventilation windows are installed to allow for better air circulation to better control the temperatures in the storage areas, thus reducing energy consumption and the need to use in heating/cooling systems. All forklifts operating at the Center run on electricity and to minimise waste, dedicated areas are assigned for collecting recyclable items such as used cartons and pallets so that they can be properly recycled or reused in the supply chain. Group Offices Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless office” environment by eliminating the use of faxes and unnecessary paper documents. As a Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 business which has traditionally relied on paper documentation with customers, such as bills of lading and invoices, we have successfully taken innovative measures to effectively reduce our paper consumption by 20% in the first year of implementation. We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign in all our offices around the world, encouraging employees to switch off computers after work, powering off copiers and lights after use, and to install energysaving office equipment, such as energy-efficient lighting systems. In exploring areas where we can reduce the use of natural resources, we adopt the mixed source Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper for our publications, such as corporate calendars, corporate brochures and reports. 26 The Environment Environmental Awareness and Training OOCL Carbon Calculator 1. On ship In 2010, OOCL launched the OOCL Carbon Calculator online and also on smartphone platforms. The calculator allows OOCL customers to All OOCL senior officers on ships are professionally trained to measure the carbon dioxide emissions in their supply chains. It is one of acknowledge the importance of environmental protection and abide to the the first emissions calculator of its kind to offer multiple shipment Company’s policy and procedures, such as the Ballast Management Plan, searches and full intermodal emissions data. Garbage Management Plan and the Shipboard Marine Pollution Emergency Plan, to protect the environment. Subsequently, all other This calculator has demonstrated OOCL’s commitment to environmental OOCL crew members are then trained by their senior officers. care and our drive to help our customers understand and manage the carbon footprint in their end-to-end supply chains. 2. Land side The scope of the calculator spans across vessel, truck, feeder, barge and All OOCL employees undertake basic training on environmental rail with over 70,000 port pairs. It offers customers a user-friendly awareness through learning the Company’s core values within the first interface, allowing them to generate summarised reports according to few weeks on the job. This is an important part of the mandatory their preferred specifications. employee induction training delivered through the Company’s ePeopleSmart learning platform. OOCL spearheaded this project in 2010, partnering with the Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University that act as our third party verifier. The Calculator has been Shenzhen Port Green Convention checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon footprint calculations by The American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) Consulting. OOCL is one of the leading carriers that signed on to the newly introduced Shenzhen Port Green Convention initiated by the Shenzhen Transportation Commission (SZMOT) that encourages ocean going Annual Supply Chain CO2 Report Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 vessels to voluntarily use fuel with a sulphur content of less than 0.5% when berthed at the participating ports in Shenzhen. In our latest environmental initiative to better serve the needs of our core BCO customers by gathering information on their supply chain’s carbon emissions, we have made further improvements in our IT capability to OOCL Adopts Extended Speed Reduction allow us to automatically generate the Supply Chain CO2 Reports for all the shipments without having to manually input the calculating variables. Since 2005, OOCL adopted the voluntary speed reduction program at the Port of Long Beach and the Port of Los Angeles to help reduce emissions This enhancement project aims to standardise the presentation of the when sailing into port. Initially, the speed reduction program encouraged data and uses a more efficient method to generate the reports, thereby vessels to reduce their speed within 20 nautical miles of the ports and allowing us to provide a more effective and proactive approach to sharing subsequently the revised program extended the radius to a 40 nautical carbon emission information with our core BCO customers on an annual miles zone. OOCL had adopted the 20 nautical miles zone since the basis. This service capability was available since March 2014. introduction of the program and has also committed to adopting the extended speed reduction zone. Reduced vessel speed results in less Corporate reporting of greenhouse gas emissions with high quality fuel being used and therefore less emissions, such as sulphur oxides and standards has become a common practice for multinational corporations nitrogen oxides, diesel particles and greenhouse gases being released (MNCs) to respond to a growing demand from stakeholders for increased near the coastline. transparency. By providing the Supply Chain CO2 Reports on a proactive basis, we are Stop Shipping Shark, Whale, Dolphin, and Their Related Products able to better serve our customers and helping them achieve their green objectives in their supply chains. On 15th February 2016, OOCL announced that bookings for whale, shark, dolphin, and their related products will not be accepted. This new policy shows our commitment and best practices in supporting the global effort to curb the trade in at-risk, endangered and protected marine species. The Environment 27 Global Vessel Voyage Monitoring Centre (GVVMC) To enhance fuel saving and improve fleet performance, OOCL and CargoSmart™ have been working closely together to utilise the AIS signals to monitor all OOCL vessels through CargoSmart’s GVVMC (Global Vessel Voyage Monitoring Centre) that operates around the clock, 24-7, to track the movements of more than 6,500 container vessels and the status of over 1,300 container ports. The GVVMC monitors real-time vessel movements to identify exceptions earlier through state-of-the-art and innovative tools. The Centre would alert the users (i.e. container liners) if speed deviation, route deviation or any abnormal activities of a vessel during the voyage is found, allowing for a quicker response to address those issues. The implementation of the GVVMC was a big success in supporting marine operations to ensure that all containerships are in line with service loop standards and performance guidelines. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Seminar at Hong Kong Exchange In December 2015, the Hong Kong Exchange and Clearing (HKEx) announced to upgrade some of the provisions in the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide. To encourage public discussion, sharing and understanding of the revised ESG Guide, the HKEx organised training seminars and invited representatives of listed companies from different industry sectors to share their Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 experiences on their ESG reporting work. As part of our community outreach initiative, OOCL took part in the event on 18th March 2016 to talk about our ESG work over the years, including insightful ideas on how to prepare for ESG reporting and what was involved in developing our Group Sustainability Report. LBCT Installs Solar Panels at Port of Long Beach In contributing to a more sustainable environment, our Long Beach Container Terminal (LBCT LLC) installed a 904.75kW photovoltaic (PV) system at the Port of Long Beach. The PV system was built on the roof of 12 carport structures at two sites at the Port of Long Beach terminal E. It includes 3,290 solar modules and has the potential to generate approximately 1,547MWh of energy per year. The system is also expected to help avoid the emission of 1,127 tons of carbon dioxide each year. As part of the LBCT Pier E redevelopment project, the PV system will contribute to making LBCT one of the greenest, most technologically advanced container terminals in the world. 28 The Environment OOCL Malaysia Going Green by Beach Cleaning On 1st May 2016, a total of 150 participants comprising of OOCL Malaysia colleagues and their families, employees of Federal government agencies, representatives from Swiss-Garden Beach Resort Damai Laut, and local residents participated in a beach cleaning activity at Teluk Senangin in Malaysia. Although it was a hot and humid morning, our teams enthusiastically completed the task to collect up to 30 bags of trash which was more than 250 kilograms of waste! The sight of a pristine beach after the cleanup filled participants with pride. To alleviate the littering problem, OOCL also set up 3R recycling bins located near the beach area, doing our part to reduce the littering problem at the beach. Green Week Since 2007, the first week of July each year has been designated as the OOCL Green Week in support of environmental care. Improving the Going Green by Harnessing Solar Energy environment is one of our key focus under one of OOCL’s core values and demonstrates our commitment to corporate social responsibility. A total of 814 solar panels were installed at our Levington office in the United Kingdom to leverage on green energy sources. By harnessing the Green Week is a global program for everyone at our offices around the power of the sun in a solar photovoltaic (PV) array, it can provide about world to promote environmental care through special events and 50% of the office’s annual electricity consumption, thereby reducing meaningful activities. They are organised to remind our colleagues on the approximately 123,000 kilograms of CO2 emissions each year. The importance of “Going Green” and we have been successful in showing Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 expected life of the solar array is around 40 years, which means this our long-term commitment to protecting our environment through such green initiative can continue contributing to OOCL’s green credentials for initiatives. many years to come. OOCL Shanghai Offices Continue Their Green-up Efforts On 1st April 2016, colleagues from our offices in Shanghai participated in a meaningful excursion to the Lingang Logistics Park in Shanghai, China, to plant trees in an effort to green-up the environment. More than 40 trees planted by the groups of volunteers in the past two years have really greened-up and beautified the facility and its surroundings. This planting activity further reflects OOCL’s commitment to environmental sustainability and we hope to continue our green efforts through more activities like this in the future. Green Protection in Mangrove Cooperated with the Qi'ao Island Mangrove Management Office, there are 100 colleagues in Zhuhai and families participated and separated into two batches joining the grass cutting and beach cleanup activities, to protect Mangrove plants and environment on 23rd July 2016 at Qi’ao Mangrove Conservation Area. The Mangrove Management very appreciated our contributions and efforts in this activity since they usually spend much effort to cut the grass and garbage. The Environment 29 Awards and Recognition OOCL is proud and honoured to receive recognition and awards for our commitment and efforts to corporate sustainability each year and we highlight some of our achievements in 2016. Founding Constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index The Group is a founding constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index, launched in 2010 to recognise the top 30 companies with the highest scores in areas such as environmental care, social impact, and corporate governance (ESG). We have been selected as a constituent of Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Benchmark Index for the sixth consecutive year, reflecting our continual outstanding performance in ESG, which was launched 2011. Referring to their latest ESG assessment, we are ranked at the top in one of the seven core subjects of “Consumer Issues”. OOCL Takes Further Step Forward in GHG Reporting OOIL becomes a FTSE4Good Global Index Constituent In OOCL’s commitment to environmental protection and data integrity The FTSE4Good Index Series is one of the world’s most recognised and standards, OOCL took further step forward in our Greenhouse Gas respected indices measuring the performance of companies (GHG) reporting by extending the scope to container terminals, namely Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Long Beach Container Terminal, LLC. (LBCT LLC) in the United States standards for investors committed to socially responsible investments. and Kaohsiung Container Terminal (KAOCT) in Taiwan. OOIL is honoured to be the first Hong Kong-based enterprise in the Each year, OOCL ensures that such standards are consistent and upheld international transportation and logistics industry to be included in the by certifying our environmental data through independent business Index. Independently assessed according to the Index criteria, OOIL has assurance service providers. Accredited by Lloyd’s Register (LR), this is met all ESG requirements to become a constituent of the Index for the the third consecutive year that OOCL has achieved dual reporting second consecutive year since December 2015, an important milestone in standards through the use of Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) and the company’s efforts to achieving long-term sustainability objectives. ISO 14064-1:2006 verification tools. The initiative not only ensured that OOCL’s data disclosure in 2015 is transparent, accurate, complete, consistent and relevant for the carbon dioxide, sulphur oxides and GHG Scope 1 emission data of OOCL vessels and GHG Scope 2 records associated to the electricity consumption of OOCL’s head office in Hong Kong, but also verifying that GHG Scope 1 and Scope 2 data from our terminals are meeting standards. In the verification process, OOCL prepared all the proper documentation and records showing the effective management and internal controls for collecting and reporting of the required data to meet the dual standards. It also verified the adequacy of the processes being implemented in managing the consumption and emissions data of our vessels, terminals and head office. Not a single discrepancy, misstatement and nonconformity was identified. 30 The Environment “Class of Excellence” Wastewi$e Label OOCL received environmental recognition for our participation and performance in the Wastewi$e Label Scheme under the Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE) program. Under the Scheme, participants must achieve at least nine goals or more, covering at least two of three Wastewi$e categories in order to be granted with the “Class of Excellence” Wastewi$e Label. The three categories include Waste Avoidance & Reduction Measures, Collection and Recycling of Recyclable Materials, and Purchase or Manufacture of Recycled Products. Asia Sustainability Reporting Award OOCL also received recognition for “Asia’s Best CSR Communication Within Annual Report” at the Asia Sustainability Reporting Awards Ceremony and Gala Dinner organised by CSRWorks International held in Singapore on 28th January 2016. CSRWorks International’s inaugural awards drew 180 entries from companies in Hong Kong, China, Japan, India, Taiwan, Malaysia, Thailand, Sri Lanka, the Middle East, Indonesia, Lloyd’s List Asia Containership Operator of the Year Award Singapore and the Philippines. These companies are a virtual crème-dela-crème of listed companies in Asia; mainly falling among the top 50 in OOCL was named the “Containership Operator of the Year” at the Lloyd’s their respective exchanges. List Asia awards ceremony held on 20th October 2016 in Singapore. The Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 award recognises OOCL’s outstanding business performance and commitment to corporate sustainability. Global Green Future Leadership Award OOCL won the Global Green Future Leadership Award at the Global Hong Kong Green Organisation Certification (HKGOC) Green Future Summit as the “Best Green Organization of the Year” on 18th February 2016 in India. This environmental awards program was The HKGOC aims to benchmark the performance of ‘green’ organizations organised by the World CSR Congress and received over 2,500 entries to encourage them to sustain their various environmental best practices. from different parts of the world. It also presents organizations with the opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to improve different aspects of their environmental performance. In appreciation of our efforts towards environmental protection, and following on from being awarded Gold Winner in the Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE), OOCL has been given the status of ‘Hong Kong Green Organisation’ (HKGO) by the Environmental Campaign Committee (ECC). The Environment 31 Golden Vessel Award Clean Air Award OOCL and Kaohsiung Container Terminal (KAOCT) jointly received the Long Beach Container Terminal LLC. (LBCT LLC) together with the Port Golden Vessel Award from the Taiwan International Ports Corporation of Long Beach received a prestigious Clean Air Award for working hand(TIPC) to recognise our contributions to environmental protection and in-hand to reduce pollution in Southern California through the Middle pollution prevention at the port on 1st March 2016. Harbor Redevelopment Project. Presented by the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) at its 28th annual Clean Air Awards luncheon on 7th October 2016, the award recognises LBCT for the Golden Globe Tigers Sustainability Award outstanding effort to advance effective solutions to improving air quality in the region. OOCL won the Environmental Best Practices Awards for “Green Management & Future Leadership” at the Golden Globe Tigers Summit and Awards 2016 event held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on 11th April Participation in Environment-focused Organisations 2016. Organised by the Asian Confederation of Business, World CSR and CMO Asia, the awards program honours and encourages organizations As an active participant in addressing the issues of environmental that participates in environmentally-friendly or green activities to ensure protection and climate change, we are a member of a few environmenttheir business activities adequately address current environmental focused organisations: concerns while maintaining a profit. § OOCL has been a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) since 2003 and it is a Working Group of the Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) organisation, comprising of around 40 major multinational shippers and carriers. CCWG is dedicated to benefiting the environment and people by assessing and addressing the environmental footprint of goods transported around the world. Practical solutions developed by the CCWG include the Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Environmental Performance Survey (EPS), which offers consistent standards and measurements of a carrier’s environmental performance. Our mission with the CCWG is to foster continuous improvement in the environmental and social performance aspects of freight transport by sharing information and promoting best practices in the industry. Green Flag Award § The Business Environmental Council (BEC) is a non-profit organisation in Hong Kong promoting corporate social and Since its launch, OOCL has been an outstanding voluntary participant in environmental responsibility. Members share their responsible the Port of Long Beach’s Green Flag Program by complying to sail at business practices which balance economic, social and slower speeds within 40 nautical miles of the coastline. To acknowledge environmental interests. OOCL for our commitment to reducing harmful emissions, we received a Green Flag Award from the Port of Long Beach in 2016, a recognition that § The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is a leading environmental and we have received every year since 2005. conservation organisation. Membership funds are channeled into local conservation programs and community education. OOCL will continue our efforts in cutting air pollutants such as smogforming NOx, diesel particulate matters and greenhouse gases. Port officials estimate that the amount of NOx generated by container ships would be decreased by approximately 550 metric tons a year if all the vessels comply with this program. 32 Health & Safety H E A LT H & We frequently carry out comprehensive risk assessments for reefer and dangerous cargo. Prior to loading, dangerous goods are randomly inspected to ensure that they are correctly packed and properly stored. Strict onboard SAFETY checking systems have also been implemented for other sensitive cargo. Special drills for ship safety and anti-pollution measures are periodically conducted both onboard a vessel and at office locations. We take a zero tolerance approach to work-related injuries and ensure full compliance with the required health and safety laws and regulations at all locations of operations. During the reporting period, no incidents of health and safety standard violations were found. Approaches and Initiatives Our Zero Tolerance Approach The Health and Safety of our people is a high priority and remains a key focus for the Group as we work together to achieve our Zero Tolerance approach to injuries in the workplace. We believe that Zero Tolerance is a fundamental sustainability objective. Emergency Response Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 In the event of emergency and crisis situations, a Corporate Emergency We never compromise on workplace Response policy is in place to ensure such events are handled appropriately safety. Our Corporate Safety, Security and in a timely manner. Under this policy, Emergency Response Teams (ERT) are formed in each Region, reporting to the Corporate Emergency Response & Environmental Care (SSE) Policy Team (CERT), and ultimately to the Executive Committee where needed. underpins our commitment that, so far as is reasonably practicable, our Emergency Response Teams (ERT) operations are executed in a safe In the event of a serious incident, the Regional Emergency Response Team working environment to avoid any (RERT) should first become involved in dealing with the immediate situation. occupational hazards, health and If the situation becomes more serious, the RERT will escalate the case to CERT. A standardised formation of ERTs means clear communication lines safety risks to the employees and can be quickly established for an efficient crisis response mechanism. stakeholders. Maintaining a zero rate of accidents and injuries are our primary safety objective. Health & Safety 33 Verified Gross Mass (VGM) requirements under the Safety of Life at obtain VGM information and submit it to their ocean carriers to comply Sea (SOLAS) Convention and minimise the risk of held cargo or penalties. Leveraging optical character recognition (OCR) technology, truckers and cargo weighing To improve safety in the supply chain, the International Maritime parties can take a photo of a container, check the captured container Organization (IMO) has made amendments to the Safety of Life at Sea number and tare weight, and share it with the parties responsible for filing (SOLAS) convention indicating that all shippers must comply with the VGM. mandatory container weight verification requirements, or Verified Gross Mass (VGM), effective 1st July 2016. BoxSnap allows shippers to receive container weight information as soon as it is available, either when a container is packed at a warehouse or is Currently the industry is in ongoing discussions with many regulatory at a weighing station, to meet critical VGM submission deadlines. authorities and stakeholders to ascertain the implementation details and Shippers, truckers, and cargo weighing parties can save time from having policies on such requirements as well as to ensure that process and to search through carriers’ websites for container tare weights, system readiness for compliance is in order before the effective date. conveniently share scanned container information, and retain digital image records for future reference. Shippers who submit VGMs through A number of regulatory authorities have already published their guidelines CargoSmart’s online platform can designate third-parties to provide the and regulations to help the industry comply with the new VGM rules while container weight details through the app and receive alerts when they can some countries such as China have announced that they are in the final submit the VGM to their carriers. stages of policy development. Principle “No VGM, No loading.” A container without a VGM is not allowed to Direct Installation App Store SM Google Play TM load onto the vessel. The shipper is responsible for the potential for Android regulatory penalties and all costs associated to the exception handling Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 of the containers without the VGM. Dangerous Goods Transportation Due to its hazardous nature, Dangerous Goods (DG) shipments are regulated under stringent rules and regulation throughout the entire transportation process. Vessel owners, container liners, port authorities, international organisations, and other related entities in the supply chain, all set various requirements concerning safe transport of DG. Information and knowledge need to be shared and a large amount of documents and certificates need to be granted and delivered among different parties. All of these requirements lead to complex and demanding operations. There is no integrated solution for DG transportation thus far, though a few carriers maintain their own in-house systems; developed individually CargoSmart Introduces Mobile App for SOLAS VGM Compliance and isolated from their competitors. Subsequently, it has long been agreed that the best way of improving safety at sea is by developing CargoSmart announced BoxSnap, a free app to easily collect and share international regulations, as well as treaties adopted by the IMO. container weight information through a smartphone to comply with the Safety of Life at Sea Convention’s Verified Gross Mass requirements (SOLAS VGM) on 29th September 2016. The mobile app simplifies and expedites the process for shippers, truckers and cargo weighing parties to 34 Health & Safety Our Service The major regions that we serve in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Asia Pacific, all have specific handling procedures and approval process for DG applications. A shipper or customer's DG cargo will be checked for its content accuracy and any legal requirements concerning its transport will be taken into account. In addition, OOCL ensures the relevant stowage and segregation requirements of dangerous goods are met. This helps provide additional safety to the cargo, vessel, crew, cargo handlers and the overall environment. OOCL's DG teams are also available to discuss and provide advice to our customers on all issues relating to different international and domestic regulations. DGSmart OOCL's Dangerous Goods System has a powerful training program, Crew members are expected to apply the knowledge acquired within the known as “DGSmart”, which covers all parties involved in the DG context of their ship’s operation after the course is completed. transportation process, including carriers, forwarders, manufacturers, port Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 authorities, and DG / chemical experts. For over 10 years we have conducted the Bridge and Engine Resource Management Courses for OOCL officers and engineers. These courses Each party provides certain information and performs functions that are were conducted at the OOCL Maritime Academy (formerly called the shared, followed up, and cross-checked further down the processing Zhoushan Orient International Seaman Training Centre) in China and chain. DGSmart also links all the process involved in the whole DG sponsored by the Tung Group and OOCL. All OOCL sea staff, including transportation; our technical standard for data processing is regarded as ship masters, officers and engineers, would be sent for mandatory consummate. training and re-education courses every four years on a rotational basis. To promote safety and quality training for future seafarers, OOCL also Safety Training sends our experienced technical staff, ship masters and chief engineers to conduct presentations on topics such as safety, security, shipboard In addition to the IMO’s mandatory safety training, we also offer additional communication skills, and our in-house SQE System (Ship Safety / safety programs for our sea staff, which is in line with one of our core Security, Quality and Environment System) to students at the Zhejiang values, “People, People, People”. One of our ongoing programs is the International Maritime College in China. Onboard Mentoring Program, which helps train newly recruited or promoted sea staff and cadets on safe and efficient performance. The Master, Chief Officer, Chief Engineer and Second Engineer would closely “mentor” them for a specific period of time with continuous appraisal Safety Review 2016 reports. In addition to carrying out regular safety training and comprehensive risk An Onboard Safety Culture is constantly being promoted and all crew assessments, one of the most important adoptions to help maintain a members are kept up-to-date on safety measures and initiatives through zero rate of accidents and injuries is that we have “No Blame Policy” in various training and re-education systems. OOCL offers a web-based place to encourage our sea staff to report incident of any scale to us. training program and is designed for individual self-study with the purpose of upgrading safety awareness. The course is accredited by recognised Rather than focusing on blame, this policy helps us perform investigations organisations and an examination is given at the end of each module. that focus on identifying real and fixable root causes. Health & Safety 35 Preventive Measures of Infectious Disease Our guidepolicy of preventive measures of infectious disease is in place to provide guidance to Regions in ensuring that consistent preventive measures of infectious disease are in place for all individuals and in all offices. It defines infectious disease and outbreak; proposes action to prevent infectious disease, and provides guidance in personnel, hygiene and environmental hygiene, as well as proper actions in case of suspected or confirmed infectious disease. In addition, subject to the situation, the Company may provide with preventive vaccination in the office / Region where there is an outbreak. Each region shall use the colour-coded alert system and principles to work out and adopt its own contingency plan according to the local situation. The contingency plan should be regularly updated to ensure its validity. Priority is to ensure health, safety and business continuity. Awards and Recognition AMVER Awards Program On 21st July 2016, OOCL was presented with over 20 AMVER Awards for the year 2015. AMVER is a worldwide voluntary reporting system sponsored by the United States Coast Guard. The basic premise of the Atlantic Merchant Vessel Emergency Reporting system (AMVER) program is for all mariners to help other mariners in need regardless of their nationality. AMVER is a unique, computer-based, and voluntary global ship reporting system used worldwide by search and rescue authorities to coordinate rescue efforts for ships in distress at sea. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Our Company makes safety at sea a top priority and our participation in the AMVER system shows our support in maritime safety. We believe the AMVER program helps protect lives and make the ocean a safer environment for all seafarers. OOCL has participated in the AMVER system for over 10 years and many of our ships have since received a number of AMVER awards. Qualship 21 Certificates OOCL vessels have been recognised for our exceptional safety and environmental standards under Qualship 21 since 2004. Our vessels were recognised as Qualship 21 participants for their high standard of excellence; marking the most OOCL vessels ever certified under the program to date. We are particularly proud of the fact that according to the United States Coast Guard, less than 10 percent of the foreign-flagged ships that operate in the US have qualified for this initiative. 36 Security SECURITY In a world where cargo security are becoming more complex in the international trading community, OOCL is strongly committed to the security of our operations against possible compromise and to the maintenance of the highest level of compliance in security related areas. Corporate Security Policy As a responsible company, we have to ensure the safety and integrity of all our employees, ships, customers' cargo and our port facilities. In this regard, we are obliged to offer our utmost cooperation to the Authorities including the Governments of all States in their fight against any act that will impinge on maritime or cargo security. Such acts may include, but not limited to, the following: • Terrorist attacking a port facility • Hijacking of ship • Bomb threat • Piracy • Sabotage • Shipping of weapons or agents of mass destruction • Drug smuggling • Stowaway / human smuggling • Tampering with documentation / container / cargo • Cargo Pilferage Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 We are committed to maintaining our vigilance to prevent any potential Security Code threats to security. Security measures, From our offices to ports, warehouses, shore facilities and onboard our plans and standards are all in place vessels, we work with the authorities to ensure that every measure is in place to maintain the highest commercial and operational security standards as and audited at every level of our possible at all times, while all employees are educated and regularly updated organisation. We take every through security training. precaution to provide the highest levels of security for our customers and employees. Security 37 International Ship and Port Facility Security Code OOCL Logistics (China) Limited now officially an Advanced Certified Enterprise OOCL complies with the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS” Code) to ensure security threats are detected and OOCL Logistics (China) Limited was proud to obtain credentials as an assessed and preventive measures are in place on our vessels and at our Advanced Certified Enterprise (ACE)following five months of rigorous port facilities. A designated officer on each ship and at each port facility scrutiny by the General Administration of China Customs. OOCL Logistics reports to the Company Security Officer who oversees the security plans, completed the comprehensive preparation work in order to prove that our drills and training. With this in place, all our vessels continue to have an operation met the high standards of the Authorised Economic Operator exemplary record containing zero breaches of security and clean classification system as an ACE applicant. We are among the first group detention records. of enterprises obtaining the official ACE certificate. Partners in Protection Our Company has been certified as a “Partners in Protection” (PIP) carrier by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Partners in Protection. It is a voluntary program established by the CBSA for companies which assist to enhance border security, combat organised crime and terrorism, detect and prevent contraband smuggling, and increase the awareness of issues to secure the flow of goods and travellers across the U.S.-Canadian border. Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Our Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines fully satisfy the U.S. Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) initiative. We regularly conduct internal security checks to identify, evaluate, and prevent any security threats. Our security profile has been validated by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency through “on-site” checks To combat the increasing threat of maritime piracy, OOCL applies antiof our Group’s offices and facilities including terminals, warehouses, piracy measures by adopting best practice guidelines and establishing depots and vessels. close communication with staff onboard Piracy Container Security Initiative Piracy was common across the Middle East region and with occurrences OOCL is also committed to other international initiatives, rules and in the southern end of the Red Sea, Gulf of Aden, Arabian Sea and down regulations such as the Container Security Initiative (CSI) and 24-Hour into the Indian Ocean, stretching from the Somali coastline all the way Advance Manifest Rule. We also actively engage various governments across to within close proximity of the Indian coast. and authorities worldwide in their efforts against any act that would impinge upon maritime or cargo security. Authorised Economic Operator Similar to the C-TPAT, the EU Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) is a voluntary-based public-private partnership where participants who fully meet AEO requirements, such as customs compliance, appropriate record-keeping, financial solvency and, where relevant, security and safety standards, will be offered an AEO certification. Since 2011, twelve of our EU-based branch offices have been AEO-certified. 38 Security Anti-piracy Measures As an industry leader in technology, OOCL strives to provide the most innovative international container transport and logistics services in the OOCL follows anti-piracy measures before our vessels enter the High business. As part of its core business philosophy, OOCL excels in its Risk Area (HRA). One of the key measures is to maintain a 24-hour, 360services through continuous improvement and adoption of cutting-edge degree counter-piracy visual and radar watch and to assign additional technology and information systems. watch-keepers at the bridge and on the deck while transiting through the HRA to watch out for suspected pirate crafts. Cyber Security Awareness Training OOCL has also adopted the Industry Best Management Practices to avoid, deter or delay pirate attacks. We cooperate with navy forces and Traditionally, antivirus and malware detection software would provide a relevant anti-piracy organisations to exchange information on safety and boost to our computer security by helping our computers stay away from security measures, piracy policies and procedures. Close communication being “infected”. But as the development of the Internet is becoming more is also kept between the vessels and our Fleet Management Department sophisticated than ever, signature-based virus / malware detection tools office which has a 24-hour emergency hotline and is always on standby in alone are no longer sufficient today. case of any emergency. This is because the “Advanced Persistent Threat”, a set of stealthy and continuous computer hacking processes often orchestrated by attackers Information Security targeting a specific entity by taking advantage of security loopholes, is growing. APT has been observed to target organisations and/or nations Security Certification in OOCL Data Centre for business, financial and/or political motives. “Corporate Security Breaches”, “Email Spoofing”, “Spear Phishing” and “Social Media Fraud” OOCL was successfully certified with the new ISO/IEC 27001:2013 are some of the common types of cyber attacks. standard that puts more emphasis on measuring and evaluating how well an organisation’s Information Security Management System (ISMS) To boost our employee’s knowledge and awareness of cyber security, conforms to risk assessment requirements and meets the high corporate new initiatives and programs have been developed to ensure everyone IT Security management, planning and control standards. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 takes part in protecting our assets and become more resilient against such threats. This includes an annual cyber security training and The ISO 27001 Information Security Certification is an internationallymandatory test for all employees, monthly knowledge and trend updates, recognised code of practice for the management and protection of and sophisticated monitoring and protective systems. This Worldwide information security. With the certification, it recognises that the data Cyber Security Awareness Training program demonstrates our centre is professionally secured to world-class standards. The importance commitment to IT security and best practices to protect Company and of information security is to ensure that timely and accurate information customer information. are available when delivering products and services while at the same time, preventing and minimising security incidents. We initiated a Big Data Security Analytic project to further enhance our protection systems. It is to reduce the danger of zero-day malware when OOCL has been accredited with the ISO 27001 Certificate since 2005 APT happened and unknown attacks in our environment by providing and successfully upgraded to new edition of ISO/IEC 27001:2013 in 2014 early detection and near-real-time alerts. by SGS, an international certification body. The certification covers the primary production Data Centre and also Phishing Email Awareness Exercise extends to secondary Data Centres for “Research and Development” and “Disaster Recovery” services. Cyber attacks can seriously affect businesses and it is vital that our colleagues learn how to prevent these attacks and deal with suspicious The ISO 27001 specifications contain a number of objectives and emails. In March 2015, OOCL announced the launch of our first controls. These include: Information security policies, Organisation of awareness exercise focusing on phishing emails. Emails were sent out to information security, Human resource security, Asset management, our staff under the guise of a hacker designed to track how people fall Access control, Cryptography, Physical and environmental security, victim to the phishing and help to assess our organisation’s vulnerability Operations security, Communications security, System acquisition, to an actual attack. Development and maintenance, Supplier relationships, Information security incident management, Information security aspects of business continuity management and Compliance. Our People 39 OUR The Group is an equal opportunity employer with a clearly defined policy covering areas such as treating all employees with fairness and dignity, promoting the corporate culture of encouraging open and frank PEOPLE communication throughout the organisation, investing in its employees and caring for their hopes and aspirations through people-development programs and education, as well as recognising their efforts and achievements. Employee Profile We employ more than 10,200 full-time employees around the world where the majority of them are hired locally and 90.96% of the employment are on a regular basis. Total Group Work Force (By Region) Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 As a responsible corporate citizen employing the highest standards of business ethics in all that it does, the Group understands that the process begins with the treatment of its employees. As a successful Total Group Work Force corporation, the Group appreciates (By Age Group) that its success, growth and performance are attributable to the skills, dedication and teamwork of its employees. It regards people as its greatest asset and takes good care of them. 40 Our People Staff Retention Global Recognition Program The OOIL Group is a very stable organisation with a good staff retention Global Recognition Awards are designed to promote and recognise the rate. The Company has proactive strategies in place to try and retain “Take It Personally” spirit among OOCL employees with the purpose of employees through various programs to enhance job satisfaction and promoting quality service to all our customers. improve staff retention. In 2016, the turnover rate for employees across our operations was 12.2%. SPOT Award Long Service Awards Everyone likes to be thanked and recognised for a job well done. At OOCL, we strongly believe in the importance of encouraging, thanking In recognition of our staff’s hard work and dedication to the Group, we and recognising the contributions and hard work from our colleagues. celebrated with over 700 Long Service Award recipients from our offices This could be making a suggestion which improved efficiency at work, across the world. In 2016, there were 56 proud colleagues who received completing a job which exceeds expectations, or even demonstrating the 25-Year Long Service Award, while 336 were recognized for their 10behaviour which exemplifies our Core Values and/or Core Competencies. Year Long Service, and about 330 for their 5-Year Long Service. The SPOT Award is part of our “Global Recognition Award” which is aimed at promoting quality customer service both internally and externally. Our People’s Success is OOIL’s Success Staff Movement – Transfer / Reassignment The framework for Staff Movement is established to facilitate effective Professional Development human resources deployment, supporting achievement of business objectives and employee development. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 At OOIL, we encourage openness and innovation in our work environment. Every employee is entitled to equal training and development opportunities There are many opportunities available for career growth at OOCL. We through nomination and selection. Our policy on “Training & Development” may, in the interest of staff career development and the operational needs sets out to groom our people to support our business growth and their own of the Company, assign them to different positions, or transfer them to professional development while discharging duties at work. The Group different departments or Group companies, either on a temporary or provides employees with extensive opportunities to realise their potential permanent basis. When such opportunities become available, we will and improve their knowledge and skills through job assignments, internal consider their career goals and provide career counseling at their request. or external courses, and various vocational training and development In addition, they may take advantage of career opportunities by applying programs. for open positions within the Company. Position openings will be posted through our Internal Recruitment Bulletin. A Learning Environment Six-month Short-term Job Rotation Program People development remains a cornerstone of the corporate culture and enables the effective operation of OOIL’s career development policy With “People, People, People” being the first of our 4 Core Values, OOCL through recruitment and promotion from within. is committed to investing in our people – our greatest asset! While on the job, our employees can be nurtured and given numerous As part of our continuous people development effort, OOCL launched a 6learning and development opportunities. OOIL has, over the past years, month short-term Job Rotation Program to broaden colleagues’ exposure, dedicated a great deal of time and effort into its various peopleexperience and perspective by development programs. OOIL advocates continuous learning and supports employee career development through job rotation, local and overseas job • Working in different cultural and business surroundings; assignments in conjunction with the offering of formal and informal • Taking on a challenge with full accountability and performance learning and development opportunities and sponsorships for performance measurement in a different functional setting; enhancement. • Learning to appreciate a new set of business issues in a different geographical environment. Our People 41 Program participants benefit from the exchange of knowledge, skills, insights and best practices, as well as the opportunity to enhance their communication and collaboration abilities to foster continuous improvements on business processes and decision making, thereby heightening overall organisational capability. Success Management System (SMS) The Success Management System has been an effective tool to evaluate an individual's performance in terms of meeting both the Company’s objectives and their own goals and competency requirements. Staff Communication / Knowledge Sharing The Group employs an innovative approach to internal communications, employee learning and people development. The Group recognises that International Executive Development Program (IEDP) on demand performance support to its employees is the key to help them deliver what customers need and unleash potential. Since 2010, the We run IEDPs for managers and executives worldwide. The program was Group has utilised its intranet, called “InfoNet”, as a learner-centric first launched in May 1998. To-date, more than 770 OOCL executives platform for dissemination of company news and business updates while from across all regions have completed the IEDP. providing its employees with a tool to share knowledge, exchange views and formulate ideas. In 2011, the Group adopted a wide range of enterprise level collaboration tools. In addition to conventional methods of Global HR Meeting in Germany Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 communication such as email, other tools such as OOCL Wiki, OOCL Channel, Jabber, and Tibbr, have become very effective in the global With a corporate culture focused on “People, People, People” our sharing of information and knowledge as well as facilitate collaboration company understands that sharing, teamwork and communications in amongst colleagues around the world. They have also helped us support Human Resources management among our offices and regions across accelerated learning by providing us with the means to leverage the globe will enable us to facilitate and strengthen our people resources, ideas and hence solutions. Since 2016, we have also enlisted development goals, nurture performance excellence and unleash the resourceful usage of the Office 365 cloud-based information platform employees’ potentials in their long-term career with the Group. to further our internal communication goals. To this effect, and in our effort to make people development and employee relations a global priority from a corporate perspective, our HR Lunch & Learn teams from Hong Kong, Europe and North America gathered in Bremen, Germany, for a global HR meeting in January 2016. The gathering Launched in 2013, OOCL’s “Lunch & Learn” Program was created to offer provided colleagues from different offices the opportunity to discuss and colleagues the opportunity to learn more about a topic or business area exchange views on various best practices in HR, people development which is not normally within their own job scope in a relaxed environment and deployment skills, succession planning and cultural rejuvenation from during lunch. The Lunch & Learn program first started in Hong Kong and diverse views and values. The meeting was a success, allowing our team over the past year the success of the program encouraged other regional to build a stronger network to foster better communication and offices to conduct their own programs. collaboration in their work. Training and Development Programs Knowledge is Power In addition, our employees are also provided with various management At OOCL, information and knowledge are always at our fingertips, so that and functional training programs aimed at further enhancing their we are always well informed and in touch. That is what makes us stand competencies to better serve our customers and contribute to the growth out from our competitors. All this knowledge is aggregated from our staff of the Group. in various departments. 42 Our People We have various tools for sharing: Tibbr, for giving and receiving information and help; OOCL Wiki, for recording and discussing information to build a powerful reference database; E-mail, which remains useful for all kinds of sharing; and Instant Messenger (IM) for instantaneous communication. Tibbr Tibbr was rolled out in February 2011 and we have over 90% of our employees using this tool around the world. We now consider Tibbr as one of our official communication tools, used by all our employees. Tibbr breaks down barriers between local offices, improve collaboration, speed up distribution of knowledge and skills and builds an asynchronous communication platform. OOCL Wiki OOCL Wiki is an internal platform that hosts and shares information and knowledge about the Group and our industry. All our employees are encouraged to create, edit and facilitate discussions. To date, we have created over 8,480 Wiki pages with more to come! The ten most popular pages accumulated more than 3.0 million visits. Work-life Balance (Health Wellness) Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 We have many different clubs that cover a broad range of recreation and special interest areas and they are formed with the aim of promoting work-life balance for all colleagues who can gather together for various activities after work. Colleagues can take these great opportunities to meet others in the Company who share the same interests. The recreation club, for instance, organises annual outing, cooking, kickboxing, painting, clay, baking classes, calligraphy, wine appreciation workshop, DIY ukulele and ice-cream workshop, yoga, champagne glass etching, cloth bag pad-printing, sport climbing, jazz dance, 3D latte art & etching, environmentally friendly leather crafting, laser war game, archery and different activities that allow colleagues to relax and learn after work. For some particular clubs that are more popular among colleagues, they would gather more often to have regular activities and even organise for sports competitions too! Currently, we have sports and special interest clubs that include badminton, biking, bowling, hiking, photography and soccer. These clubs not only help our colleagues attain better work-life balance, but they also make the workplace more fun and bring about the employee’s sense of belonging to the Company. In addition, colleagues joining these clubs can build their leadership and organisational skills through arranging different activities. Our People 43 Healthy Work Environment We conduct various approaches to promote public health and hygiene in our work environment. This includes organising various health talks for the staff to learn how to prevent the outbreak of an infectious disease that could have a devastating impact on our operations. Health Square Health Square promotes the need for a healthy lifestyle to our colleagues through various channels. Prevention is better than cure so we promote health awareness by organising health talks and classes for all colleagues. Our Health Square program organises a series of health classes, such as Wellness Yoga, “Tai Chi”, “Wing Chun”, Boxing Aerobics, “Qi Gong”, Yogilates, “Ba Duan Jin”, Acupuncture Points Pain Relief Massage and Lymph Exercise, to promote a healthy lifestyle to our colleagues. Our aim is to arouse their awareness of staying healthy and develop an interest in doing different forms of exercise. 2016 Hong Kong Badminton Family Fun Day To promote badminton as a way to lead to a healthy lifestyle, the OOCL Badminton Club invited colleagues and their family on 2nd May 2016 to share the benefits of playing this sport together as good exercise. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Hong Kong Trailwalker 2016 On 20th November 2016, five OOCL teams with over 70 supporters took part in the annual “Trailwalker Race” in Hong Kong, a challenging 100 km race through some of Hong Kong’s most beautiful country parks and highest peaks in the territory. Our colleagues were pleased with their results in and reaching their goals while raising funds for Oxfam's various poverty alleviation and emergency relief projects in Africa and Asia. Japan Colleagues Build Team Spirit at Sporting Events On 16th October 2016, our Osaka colleagues and their families took part in the 37th Sports Meet organised by the Foreign Transportation and Finance Health Insurance Association (FTFHIA) at the Maishima Sports Island in Osaka. The sports event is an effective health promotion activity supporting good sportsmanship, cooperation and a sense of solidarity with the community. With the goal of promoting healthy lifestyles, health check programs and sports classes were also provided. Teambuilding Challenge – Spartans 300 Warrior On 30th April 2016, our Malaysian colleagues from all branches gathered at the Swiss-Garden Beach Resort Damai Laut, Lumut for The “Spartan 300 Warrior” teambuilding and training session. After the challenging sessions, colleagues realised how the actions they take, words they use, and approaches they make on certain situations can affect the quality of teamwork. 44 Our People Remuneration, Fringes Benefits and Compensation Our employee salary and benefits are maintained at competitive levels. Employees are rewarded on a performance related basis within the general policy and framework on the Group’s salary and bonus schemes which are regularly reviewed. For promotion, the Group assesses all possible candidates and ensures that nobody with potential has been overlooked. Human and labour rights, safe and healthy working conditions and non-excessive working hours are provided. Under the guidepolicy of “Employment Terms and Conditions”, benefits and compensation includes but are not limited to: Rest Periods, Holidays and Leave Entitlement, and Contribution Scheme. Other welfare and benefits include medical insurance and pension funds to ensure our employees are well taken care of. During the reporting period, no incidents of human rights violations, discrimination and labour right issues were observed. The Group fully complies with relevant standards, rules and regulations on compensation and dismissal, recruitment and promotion, working hours, rest periods, equal opportunity, diversity, anti-discrimination and other benefits and OOCL Singapore Hosts “People, People, People … Office Day Out welfare. 2016” On 7th May 2016, our Singapore colleagues enjoyed a big day out as part Code of Conduct of the annual team building event with the theme of “People, People, Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 People … Office Day Out 2016”. In the interest of adhering to the highest ethical standards on an ongoing basis, the Group has a formulated Code of Conduct which serves as a To ensure that everyone benefitted from an exciting day of activities guideline to ensure compliance with all local, national and international under the sun, they were divided into three teams playing challenging legal standards and to preclude offences under local, national and games designed to promote Teamwork, Patience, Bonding and Strategy international laws, any breaches of confidentiality, non-disclosure among the participants. requirements or intellectual property rights and any conflicts of interest, acts of bribery, corruption or political contribution and any other areas of deemed misconduct. Equal Opportunity and Anti-discrimination We have set up procedures to identify, manage and control risks that may We are committed to equal opportunity in recruitment and employment. have an impact on the business of the Group. The Group’s “Whistle The Group would like to encourage and retain the diversity of employees Blower Policy”, established in 2006, is one of our formalised procedures in all the locations it operates to offer local employees fair promotion through which employees can anonymously file reports or register opportunities and benefit from the diversity of thought. It is the Group’s concerns and helps govern the reporting and thorough investigation of policy not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for allegations of suspected improper activities. recruitment and employment on the grounds of race, colour, religion, creed, age, sex, disability, pregnancy, childbirth and related marital status, sexual orientation, veteran status and any other category as guided by local laws and regulations. In case of redundancy, voluntary or involuntary, the Group has established a proper procedures so as to ensure that there is no discrimination and to remove any effects which could be disproportionate and unjustifiable. The Community 45 THE We believe that our community contributes greatly to our Group’s success. We have policies on community engagement as we try to understand the needs and interests of the communities where our Group operates and to COMMUNITY adjust our activities accordingly. In addition to our environmental contribution, we also give back to the community in other three distinct areas, namely Education of Youth, Community in-Need, and Promotion of Arts and Culture. Education We believe it is essential to contribute to the skills development and capacity building of young people. The founder of the Company, C. Y. Tung, had a vision of reviving the Chinese Maritime greatness with ships owned, manned, and operated on world routes entirely by Chinese. More than this, however, C. Y. Tung was dedicated to education for others. “I have learnt there is a link between ships and education,” as he was fond of saying. “They can be used for carrying ideas as well as cargo.” Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 We embrace Community Tung OOCL Scholarship Responsibility as one of our Core In line with C. Y. Tung's belief and the Company’s long tradition of giving back Values. These values are our to the communities where our employees live and work, The “Tung OOCL underlying beliefs and the foundation Scholarship” program was set up in 1995 and is sponsored by the Tung Foundation and OOIL Group. It comprises of two programs, namely, the Tung of our corporate ethos, shared by OOCL Scholarship for Universities and Tung OOCL Scholarship for every member of the Group. Our Employees’ Children. core values provide us with a The Tung OOCL Scholarship program is aimed at recognising the balanced yardstick by which we measure and development of young people who demonstrate outstanding academic achievements and active involvement in contributing to the community. In make our judgments and decisions. keeping with the Group’s long tradition in education and giving back to the community, the Tung OOCL Scholarship had committed to more than USD548,000 in 2016 for students in mainland China and our employees’ children. 46 Our Community OOCL Academy To further our Education for Youth objectives, an initiative called the “OOCL Academy” was launched in 2008 on a global scale. It aims to leverage the competencies of OOCL and align with the four Community Responsibility focuses of the Group. The Academy offers students unique opportunities to learn and practice in the areas of container transportation, logistics and information technology. These opportunities are offered to undergraduate and postgraduate students studying in these three areas and could take the form of internships, work placements, mentorships, sponsorships, and personal development programs. The Academy also supports university research projects and places strong emphasis on the importance of collaboration. Management Trainee Program We also offer Management Trainee Programs to outstanding candidates with MBA qualifications from leading universities with proven working experience, as well as fast track development programs for employees who have potential for a higher level of professional development. Internship Program Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Internship is one of the opportunities offered to undergraduate and postgraduate students of Maritime, Logistics and Information Technology from our OOCL Academy Program. Other than recruiting from universities, we also encourage employees’ children to apply for our internships. Tung OOCL Scholarship for Universities Through the internship program, We offer various business development projects to enable summer interns to gain experience in their field of study The University Scholarships have been established in five renowned and broaden their global perspectives. universities. They are Tsinghua University, Fudan University, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Zhejiang University and Nanjing University. Since the establishment of the Scholarship, more than 5,600 undergraduate and OOCL Internships Around the World post-graduate students have been awarded with more than US$4.6 million in funding. Each year, a selection panel will be set up in each Education of Youth is one of the few important community outreach university to short-list the potential candidates based on their academic initiatives of OOCL. The OOCL Academy offers students unique results and performance, plus active participation in extra-curricular opportunities to learn and practice in the areas of container activities. With this program, we hope to facilitate the well rounded transportation, logistics and related information technologies. These development of our youth. opportunities are offered to undergraduate and postgraduate Maritime, Logistics and Information Technology students in the form of internship, mentorship, sponsorship, or personal development. programs. Tung OOCL Scholarship for Employees’ Children This year, OOCL regional offices around the globe opened their doors to Established since 1995, the Tung OOCL Scholarship for Employees’ offer internships to deserving students for the summer months. Children had benefited over 655 students who are the children of our Participating offices in Hong Kong, Vancouver, Toronto, Salt Lake City, employees. The Scholarship is open to all employees from all countries to Chicago, China, Pakistan, Singapore, Bangladesh, and Rotterdam hosted recognise their children’s outstanding achievements. A total of 56 a total of 42 interns, offering them the opportunity to work with us and scholarships were endorsed by the scholarship committee in 2016. learn more about our industry. The Community 47 Graduate Training Scheme Collaboration with Academic Institutions We have always been recognised as a pioneer in information technology OOCL Maritime Academy development for the liner and logistics industry and investing in a tremendous amount of resources on training young IT talents to further Twenty years ago, we collaborated with the Zhoushan Municipal boost their professional development. Government to construct the Zhejiang International Maritime College (ZIMC) in China, the first of its kind in the country. Today, to be in line with We continue to contribute to the Hong Kong community through our continual commitment to the education of young people, and to help academic engagements. We have been certified as a Hong Kong provide training to our crew members, a renewed collaborative agreement Institution of Engineers (HKIE) Scheme “A” Company in 2009 and since was reached with the ZIMC that lead to the construction of a new training then, we have been running HKIE Fresh Graduates Trainee programs to base on the college’s campus. provide young talents with a nourishing ground to become seasoned IT professionals through a structured training module. With the mission to promote maritime education and supporting the role that Chinese seafarers play in the world’s maritime transportation and logistics industry, OOCL Maritime Academy and the International Seaman Launch of “OOCL IT Academy” Training Centre was unveiled on 6th March 2012 in Zhoushan, Zhejiang Province, China. In 2014, the “OOCL IT Academy” was established with the aim of strengthening and ultimately grooming our IT talent pool in a more This training facility called the OOCL Maritime Academy (OMA) was structured way. constructed for international seafarers and is used to train crew members and recruit talented young cadets by providing them with opportunities to The idea behind the OOCL IT Academy was to provide a 3-month work onboard our vessels. This also includes training and exposure for intensive boot camp-style training for all our newly-hired IT the ZIMC teachers and faculty through workshops and seminars graduates. The training would encompass technical know-how, process, conducted by key members of our experienced fleet management team and hands-on experience as well as knowledge sharing on OOCL culture. and other senior sea officers. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 The training helps to motivate them to continue on their learning journey Currently, we are the only shipping company in China to have established throughout their career at OOCL. With the academy set up and running, an own-operated training centre in collaboration with a maritime college. the plan is for all future IT graduates to complete the boot camp before This partnership greatly helps promote the important role that China plays they begin working at the Company. in the global maritime arena – with the aim to strengthen safety, security, and environmental protection practices as well as encouraging Chinese students to join the maritime and shipping industry. OOCL IT Academy Boot Camp Graduation Ceremony OOCL IT Academy (ITA) was set up to provide boot camp-style training to strengthen and groom our IT talent pool in a more structured way. To date, there have been five successful ITA boot camps, with the 5th intake of trainees having celebrated their graduation on 30th September 2016. After the last boot camp, forty trainees from the 2016 Summer class joined various project teams in different roles, such as developer, business analyst, quality assurance or IT support positions. In addition to inviting external trainers from two top IT training centres to conduct the sessions, we also appointed 21 experienced OOCL IT experts to take up roles as ITA Teachers and Teaching assistants. Our experts tailor made a training program for the ITA trainees, conducted lectures, project demos and group task assignments. Aside from the technical training, we also conducted soft skills training which included communication skills enhancement and time management. 48 Our Community OOCL Supports Global Warming Research OOCL Vital Link We have a history of collaboration with the University of Washington in their research efforts. We are currently helping with their latest project in which their scientists board our container vessel to carry out their research. While at sea, concentrations of dissolved CO2 and oxygen gases, nutrients, chlorophyll, and suspended particles as well as the temperature and salinity of the water are measured by the scientists. These measurements allow the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration that funds the research to estimate the rate at which the atmospheric CO2 is being absorbed by the phytoplankton activity in the ocean. Community-in-Need OOCL Hong Kong formed an official volunteer team, called the OOCL Vital Link in December 2004 and currently there are 55 members in this Being an integral part of the community, we are a caring company that team. Since its establishment, a total of 101 charitable events were actively considers the needs of the people in our society. Our main focus organised. These include fund-raising, donation and servicing events. is on underprivileged children and other similar groups in the community. In 2009, the team also added a focus on environmental protection to raise All our employees from every office around the world are encouraged to the awareness of colleagues in environmental care. Moreover, a Charity give something back to the communities in which they live through Credit Program was launched in 2006 to show our appreciation for our charitable activities such as fundraising and volunteering their time and colleagues’ active participation in public service initiatives, community efforts to helping others in need. outreach and volunteerism. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Charitable Support Disaster Relief OOCL assists in transporting medical diagnostic equipment and supplies In our guidepolicy of “Community Responsibility” for disaster relief, the from the U.S. to China to care for those children who need urgent Group may initiate joint relief efforts in conjunction with relevant regional treatment. In 2016, the Group donated about US$279,000 and in addition offices of the Group. Employees may also raise funds for local charities to financial donations, the Group also contributed in-kind, such as offering on their own where the Group may consider providing further financial transportation and logistics support to send relief to the affected areas. support. In-kind donations such as operational equipment and office equipment may be considered for designated charity organisations and schools to the benefit of the community. On certain disaster relief or general charity occasions, container transportation service might be provided by the Group. The Community 49 Walk for Millions in Hong Kong On 10th January 2016, around 110 colleagues from OOCL and OOCL Logistics were joined by their families and friends to take part in the Walk for Millions event organised by The Community Chest in Hong Kong, walking alongside them in this community outreach event was also our OOIL Chairman and OOCL CEO. The walk covered a distance of approximately 10 kilometres and all of our participants finished within three to four hours. Everyone was happy to be a part of this meaningful charity walk to help raise funds for the local social welfare agencies that provide various family and child welfare services. 100% of the funds raised from the walk will go to support 24 member social welfare agencies in providing Family and Child Welfare Services to assist and strengthen family bonding and establish mutual support. Hong Kong Colleagues Participate in the Veggie Run In an effort to reduce food waste at its source, at the same time alleviate hunger and relieve poverty, OOCL Hong Kong colleagues participated in the Veggie Run, a voluntary service event to serve the community in need on the evenings of 19th, 26th July, and 17th August 2016. The participants collected unsold vegetables, fruits and other foodstuff from public market stalls and re-distributed them to low-income families in the neighbourhood. The event was hosted by the People Service Centre, a Hong Kong charity aimed at assisting people in need, especially the elderly, unemployed, and low-income families. The Veggie Run initiative is part of the Centre’s Food Friend Action project, in which volunteers collect veggies, fruits and other food from wet markets to Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 support underprivileged families. We are pleased to share that for the three nights, 39 volunteers collected a total of 270 kilograms of food. Participating in the Bread Run to Reduce Food Wastage On 28th July 2016, 60 OOCL colleagues and their family members participated in a charity event called “The Bread Run” hosted by Feeding Hong Kong. In order to help minimise Hong Kong’s food wastage problems and at the same time help feed those in need, OOCL’s volunteering bread runners helped to collect surplus fresh bread and sandwiches from bakeries and sandwich shops across Hong Kong and deliver them to designated food banks. Donating to the Children’s Heart Foundation OOCL colleagues participated in one of the largest running events in Hong Kong, The Standard Chartered Marathon 2016, as part of the Company’s “Run for a Reason! OOCL SCHKM” campaign. The money raised by OOCL SCHKM was donated to the Children Heart’s Foundation as part of OOCL’s mission to contribute to the betterment of our community and encourage corporate citizenship through public service initiatives, community outreach and volunteerism. 50 Our Community Visiting Hidden Elderly Home ‘Hidden Elderly’ are seniors who usually stay at home without any social contact and are difficult to reach by social workers. They do not take part in community activities nor do they proactively seek community support and assistance. In partnership with the TWGHs Wong Cho Tong District Elderly Community Centre, our Hong Kong colleagues took the opportunity in their community outreach initiative to share the joy and love of MidAutumn’s Festival with the Hidden Elderly by making a home visit on 3rd September 2016 and sharing our handmade lanterns and gifts with them. OOCL Logistics Do Their Part for Poverty Relief and Rescue In a continuing effort to give back to the community in need, our Changsha colleagues arranged a visit to underprivileged families and their children in Yanling Village of Hunan, China, on 20th August 2016. The majority of children in the village, are left-behind children living without both their parents for long durations of time, and lacked proper nurture, guidance and care. OOCL remains firmly committed to carrying on this worthwhile and necessary community outreach initiative every year, lending a helping hand to children in need by donating new stationeries, school bags and clothes for the children who would be entering their new semester in school. Visiting Rest Home for the Elderly On 14th April 2016, colleagues from OOCL Shanghai visited the elders at Pu An Rest Home and it has been an annual tradition for our employees there since 2012. During the visit, residents at the rest homes shared Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 their wonderful stories and life experiences with the volunteers and were very appreciative of the care and consideration shown by our colleagues. One elder recalled our colleagues’ visit during the last Double Ninth (Chung Yeung) Festival, and shared memories of performances they all enjoyed along with photos from that special day. We are very pleased that our company's visits over the years have left lasting impressions on our respected elders, and we look forward to many more of these gatherings to come. Charity Run with Love On 15th May 2016, 20 colleagues from Shanghai took part in the CIIC Cup Charity Health Run. This popular event has been organised by SITC for the past 10 years as an initiative to encourage a more active lifestyle of corporate employees in China. Since 2006, all monies raised by CIIC Cup went to public welfare projects and initiatives. Funds raised from the 2016 competition were donated to more than 10 different charities to aid children’s welfare, help people with mental disorders, promote rural education, support ethnic minority cultural heritage, and care for the hearing impaired. The Community 51 “ “Be Your Eyes” Charity OOCL Logistics Xiamen Colleagues Participate in Charity Walk-athon On 10th and 17th April 2016, our colleagues in Shanghai participated in a meaningful event organised by the “Be Your Eyes” charity at the For those of us who live in the comfort and convenience of modern cities, Hongqiao Centre Gardens. The purpose of this event is to facilitate the clean running water seems like an expected part of everyday life. But for idea of living a barrier-free life for the visually impaired. Be Your Eyes is a people living in remote areas with poor infrastructure and facilities, such charitable organization launched in 2015 to help those with vision as children in the mountainous ranges of Fujian province, China, this daily disabilities. It works to pair visually impaired runners with volunteers who necessity we take for granted is something more difficult to come by. To together will participate in training events and races. raise money to help rural schools buy water purifying systems and ensure that every child in remote areas has access to clean water, the Fujian Volunteers were first trained and introduced to the difficulties faced by the Province Youth Development Foundation together with Coca-Cola visually impaired so that the experience can help them become better Xiamen Corporation organised the Xiamen Charity Hiking – Pure Joy All guides for the visually impaired while also building trust and confidence. the Road. More than 10,000 people in 2,500 teams participated in the 26 kilometres charity walk across the Xiamen Xingling Bay. Colleagues from Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Using the skills they had learned and understanding the challenges face OOCL Logistics Xiamen formed into four teams to take part in this by those who cannot see, the volunteers were successful in guiding their meaningful event for the second consecutive year. The teams had 8 partners to various activities and tasks, including walking, jogging, and hours to complete the walk and all four teams proudly completed the long even running in unison!. hike after 7.5 hours and received Gold Medals awarded by the organisers. OOCL Shanghai Colleagues Participate in “One Egg Walkathon” Solidarity and Hope at L’Amazone 2016 The One Egg Walkathon is an event organised by Shanghai Lianquan Charity since 2011 aimed at raising funds to ease the financial burden for On 6th June 2016, dressed in pink and ready for action, our colleagues children living in poverty. In addition to coming up with innovative ways to from France participated in the L’Amazone 2016’ race-walk in Le Havre raise funds, participants also need to complete a 50 kilometres hike within for the second consecutive year. Since 2008, the annual event has been 12 hours. a meaningful, fun-filled, exciting day for a good cause. On 23rd April 2016, three teams of colleagues from Shanghai participated The theme in 2016 was solidarity and hope, attracting more than 15,000 in the Walkathon and started their journey from the Shanghai Science participants who tackled the 6 kilometres course. The event brought and Technology Museum and passed by local landmarks such as the together an incredible community of people who wish to show their Zhangjiang High-technology Park, Handang Qiantang Village, and North support in the fight against breast cancer. Cai Place during their hike. The hike gave our colleagues the opportunity to not only contribute to a worthy charitable cause, but also escape their concrete jungle lives to enjoy the natural scenery. Many relatives and friends of the participants supporting the teams and also made donations to strengthen the community outreach spirit. 52 Our Community Vancouver and Toronto Colleagues Run for the Cure UK Colleagues Brave the Elements for Charity On 2nd October 2016, our colleagues in Canada have once again As part of continuing efforts to give back to the community, our participated in the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation’s national charity colleagues in the UK organised a meaningful event to raise money for the run and walkathon event called the CIBC Run for the Cure. The ‘Make a Wish Foundation”, a charitable organization that tries to help extravaganza drew over 100,000 participants from 63 communities across make terminally ill children’s dreams come true. This event was held on Canada in support of an important shared vision: creating a future without 16th October 2016, where OOCL colleagues participated in the local breast cancer. “Whole Hog Event”. Just as intimidating and terrifying as the name sounds, the grueling competition took our participants through a 7-mile Proudly embodying our Company’s core values of community outreach race scattered across rough and rocky terrain – undulated with more than and responsibility, OOCL raised over $3,900 Canadian dollars for this 30+ challenging obstacles, all of which were designed to get our meaningful cause. contenders as muddy and wet as possible. Due to their team efforts, our UK colleagues raised a total of £1,270 GBP for the charity. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 OOCL Logistics Lanka Lends a Helping Hand to the Community President’s Challenge OOCL Logistics Lanka stepped up to the plate to help the community during the unexpectedly heavy rain falls in Sri Lanka during the second Our colleagues from Singapore participated in “The President's half of May 2016 that affected thousands of people. Colleagues took Challenge”, a movement supported by the kindness and generosity of action and joined hands with other logistics companies to help receive people from all walks of life, regardless of culture, religion or family and distribute badly needed relief supplies to the affected areas, including background, under the President’s patronage to help those who are less dry and ready-made food, child care and sanitary items, household fortunate. Each year, the President's Challenge runs a fund-raising goods, and housing repair equipment. campaign for the beneficiaries selected every year by the President's Office. Fifty-seven beneficiaries benefited from the drive in 2016. The Community 53 Promotion of Arts and Culture We believe that exposure to different cultures can enrich people’s lives. By supporting and sponsoring the performing arts, we aim to stimulate the public’s interest and appreciation of the cultural treasures from around the world. Sponsorship for Musical and Shows As part of the Group's support to the community, we have been bringing a variety of world class performing arts to Hong Kong and around the region to enrich the cultural exposure to the people. OOCL Sponsors Ballet West’s Madame Butterfly In our support of arts and culture in the community, OOCL was proud to partner with Ballet West, a prestigious and iconic non-profit arts organization in the greater Salt Lake City area, as the official production sponsor for the Madame Butterfly performance. OOCL provided VIP international transportation assistance by arranging the shipment from Australia to the United States and the show was a huge success. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 54 Our Community Others Hong Kong Voluntary Observing Ships Scheme Under the Voluntary Observing Ships Scheme by the Hong Kong Observatory (HKO), our ship officers would make regular weather observations and report the conditions to the HKO for analysis. These observations can provide vital information about the weather conditions at sea and are particularly important for the timely preparation of warnings of hazardous weather to highly populated areas. There are over forty OOCL vessels participating in this voluntary scheme. OOCL Volunteers for the Australian Bureau of Meteorology OOCL‘s Sydney office was approached by the Australian Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) who were looking for potential ships to participate in the Integrated Marine Observing System (IMOS) Ship of Opportunity Sea Surface Temperature Project. A volunteer fleet samples sea temperatures in the top 800m of the ocean along particular sampling lines on the OOCL Receives Recognition from HKO, WMO and IOC for Valuable appropriate route. Contributions to the Observatory and Maritime Communities OOCL were identified as having two ships which follow the same route In 2016, forty-two OOCL vessels participated in the Hong Kong Voluntary and a request was made for participation in this program. These two ships Observing Ship (HKVOS) program by the Hong Kong Observatory (HKO) Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 are the OOCL Panama and the OOCL Houston. to gather and provide marine climatology data needed to help identify prevailing weather conditions for preparing forecasts and warnings to the OOCL is delighted to assist in this program and continue to offer our maritime community. To recognise vessels’ outstanding efforts in ongoing service to the BOM and the wider community through our active volunteering their time to help improve maritime safety, the HKO participation. presented one ‘Diamond Award’, one ‘Platinum Award’, and three ‘Gold Awards’ to a total of five OOCL vessels on 31st May 2016. Apart from the quantity of the reports made, nine OOCL vessels were also presented Awards and Recognition with participation certificates jointly issued by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO (IOC) for the high quality of the reports sent. According to the OOCL Honoured with the Ten Years Plus Caring Company Logo HKO, observational data received from these ships in the Voluntary Observing Ship Scheme Climate Fleet (VOSClim) are highly valued by the international scientific community for climate research and climate change studies. We have been recognised by the Hong Kong Council of Social Services (HKCSS) for our years of contributions to caring for our community. We were awarded with the “10 Years Plus Caring Company” status by the HKCSS and it is given to companies that have demonstrated a caring spirit with the aim to cultivating good corporate citizenship and strategic partnership among the business, public and social service sectors. Sustainable Development Goals 55 S U S TA I N A B L E As ethical business behaviour and corporate sustainability are becoming increasingly more important, many companies are taking a closer look at themselves to openly communicate and measure their business values and DEVELOPMENT GOALS impact on the environment and communities in which they operate. As a socially responsible company, we are committed to maintaining safe and secure business operations for a sustainable future. To continue with our commitment in meeting and exceeding international standards on all our sustainability goals and objectives, we have introduced new targets to help us better benchmark our performance. The United Nations (UN) has adopted a set of bold new Global Goals that charts sustainable development for the people and planet by 2030 as a universal, integrated and transformative vision to make our world more prosperous, inclusive, sustainable and resilient. The OOIL Group supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) set out by the UN and we are committed to taking action and formulating the relevant SDGs to contribute to tackling global environmental and social challenges we face across industries while building on our ESG profile and recognition as an industry leader on sustainability initiatives. Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 To continue with our commitment in meeting and exceeding international standards on all our Sustainable Development Goals and objectives, we have introduced new targets to help us better benchmark our performance. 56 Sustainable Development Goals Offer scholarships for Universities and employees’ children, vocational training, internships, and other programs to over 20,000 beneficiaries by 2030. Education is a fundamental Climate change and Increase 300% of solar human right and is extreme weather has energy generation at our indispensable towards already affected millions of sites from the 2016 level by improving people’s livelihood people around the world 2022. and supporting the future with disruptive impact on workforce in our communities. certain economies. Reduce 30% of CO2 emission from the 2010 The development and use of Ocean routes and sea level by 2020. clean and sustainable energy passages have long been Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 is fundamental to human vital conduits for maritime Introduce efficient and environmental friendly prosperity. Modern society trade and transportation and vessels (up to 40% more depends on reliable and some of them are at risk from efficient than the current affordable energy sources to the threats of pollution, fleets in average). ensure a more sustainable resource depletion and future. climate change, many of which are caused by human activities. Participate and initiate over 100 marine life protection and conservation causes, activities, and programs by 2030, with every Region where OOCL has presence to have been involved in initiative related to Life below Water. Sustainable Development Goals 57 For the year of 2017, these objectives and targets are: The Environment : Make every effort to minimise the impact of our business activities on the environment. • Target to reduce 30% of CO2 emission from the 2010 level by 2020. • No breach of any environmental rules and regulations. • Increase environmental program participations compared to last year. The Environment : Enhance our GHG Assurance and Reporting. • Employ independent checker to assure our GHG Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission data integrity. • Enhance the GHG verification scope to staff business travel. Health & Safety : Maintain high health and safety standards. • Zero occurrence of major maritime accident. • Participate in at least two safety programs. • No severe or fatal crew injury cases. Health & Safety : Proactively promote an Onboard Safety Culture. • Ensure our existing training materials and procedures are up-to-date. • Regularly review and deliver updates of any international safety standards and regulations to every crew member. Security : Ensure that every measure is in place to maintain the best commercial and operational security standards Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 possible at all times. • Maintain our compliance with C-TPAT, AEO and related security programs at all times. • Constantly and meticulously follow any updates regarding security issues. Our People : Maintain an open environment in the workplace for better staff communication and corporate culture. • All staff members are given access to various internal communication channels based on their job nature and requirements. This access allows our employees to submit feedback, contribute ideas and share knowledge across our global offices for effective collaboration and teamwork. The Community : Reinforce commitment to local communities through employee volunteering activities. • Maintain an average of two hours volunteering service per full time employee count. 58 Targets Review TA R G E T S ü Environmental Program Participations REVIEW ü GHG Scope 1 & 2 Reporting Integrity ü GHG Scope 3 Reporting ¡ Long Term CO2 Emission Reduction ü Review Safety Regulation ü No severe or fatal crew injury cases ü Maintain High Health & Safety Standards Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 We established programs or action plans to monitor and ensure our ü Safety Programs sustainability targets are met. Objectives and Targets aim for ü Review Safety Training continual improvement in sustainability agenda or for minimising ü Zero Major Maritime Accidents the relevant impact. Targets are therefore quantified wherever possible to measure our ü Security Issues Updates achievements. ü C-TPAT & AEO Compliance ü Staff Communication Legend Achieved ü Employee Volunteering ü ¡ In Progress Performance Data Summary 59 P E R F O R M A N C E D ATA S U M M A R Y We gather a wide variety of measurable data to help monitor and evaluate our sustainability performance and identify any critical areas for improvement. i GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2015 2016 G4-EN1 Materials Consumption Paper Metric Tons Actual 162.2 134.3 Printer Cartridge # Actual 4,461 4,410 Battery # Actual 13,877 15,183 Refilled Refrigerant ~ R134a Kg Actual 4,046.2 7,746.8 Refilled Refrigerant ~ R404a Kg Actual 21,493.0 26,585.0 Refilled Refrigerant ~ R407c (NEW) kg Actual 3,640.0 Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Refilled Refrigerant ~ R507a (NEW) kg Actual 45.0 G4-EN2 Recycling Paper Metric Tons Actual 47.3 51.0 Oil Sludge Metric Tons Actual 20,117 22,926 Plastic kg Actual 3,128 5,107 Printer Cartridge # Actual 1,552 1,698 Battery # Actual 3,916 3,602 G4-EN3, 4 Energy Consumption Electricity MWh Actual 61,177.12 76,513.54 Renewable Energy ~ Solar Energy ii kWh Actual 77,590 224,790 Natural Gas Thermal Actual 12,749 47,003 Fuel Vessels Metric Tons Thousand 1,719.82 1,712.60 Fuel Onshore Litre Thousand 2,942.97 2,483.02 G4-EN5 Energy Intensity Electricity Intensity kWh/TEU iii Actual 10.97 12.58 Natural Gas Intensity Thermal/TEU Thousandth 2.29 7.73 Fuel Intensity Metric Tons/TEU Actual 0.31 0.28 60 Performance Data Summary GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2015 2016 G4-EN8, 22 Water Consumption, Reuse and Discharge Water Metric Tons Thousand 235.87 248.88 Water Intensity Metric Tons/TEU Actual 0.042 0.041 Seawater for Ballast Exchange Metric Tons Thousand 1,955.97 2,091.80 Water Discharge iv Metric Tons Thousand 235.87 248.88 G4-EN15, 16, 17 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Direct Metric Tons Thousand 5,375.23 5,350.92 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Indirect Metric Tons Thousand 29.36 34.85 Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Business Travel by Air (NEW) MtCO2e v Thousand 1.931 Methane (CH4) Direct MtCO2e Thousand 2.90 2.89 Nitrous Oxide (N2O) Direct MtCO2e Thousand 72.63 72.33 Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Total vi MtCO2e Thousand 5,480.12 5,462.92 G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Intensity MtCO2e/TEU Actual 0.98 0.90 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Intensity Vessels g/TEU-km Actual 56.26 55.62 G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Export Solar Energy to Local Electricity Grid (New) kWh Actual 34,361 68,684 G4-EN21 Other Air Emissions Sulphur Oxides (SOx) Metric Tons Thousand 79.81 86.32 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Metric Tons Thousand 159.21 158.58 Particulate Matter (PM) Metric Tons Thousand 12.1 12.1 Non-Methane Volatile Organic Compounds (NMVOCs) Metric Tons Thousand 5.30 5.27 Carbon Monoxide (CO) Metric Tons Thousand 4.76 4.74 G4-EN23 Wastes General Wastes Disposal Metre Cubes Actual 6,178 11,147 General Wastes Incineration Metre Cubes Actual 642 662 Hazardous Wastes Litre Actual 7,320 9,301 General Wastes Intensity Metre Cubes/TEU Thousandth 1.22 1.94 Hazardous Wastes Intensity Litre/TEU Thousandth 1.31 1.53 G4-EN24 Spills No. of Spills # Actual 0 0 Toxic Waste Spilled Metric Tons Actual 0 0 Performance Data Summary 61 GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2015 2016 G4-EN29 Environmental Incidents Cases of Environmental Incidents (NEW) # Actual 0 1 vii Cost of Fines, Penalties or Settlements (NEW) # Actual 0 0 G4-10 Workforce by Region Mainland China % Actual 49.57 48.70 Hong Kong % Actual 12.67 13.07 North America % Actual 8.46 8.31 Europe % Actual 7.51 7.46 Others % Actual 21.79 22.46 G4-10 Employment Type Regular % Actual 90.85 90.96 Contract & Temporary % Actual 9.15 9.04 G4-10, G4-LA6 Health & Safety No. of Employee Shore Staff FTE viii Actual 7,866 8,189 No. of Employee Sea Staff FTE Actual 2,023 2,058 No. of Employee Consolidated Group Total FTE Actual 9,889 10,247 Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 No. of Fatalities Shore Staff # Actual 0 0 No. of Fatalities Sea Staff # Actual 1 ix 0 No. of Fatalities Consolidated Group Total # Actual 1 0 No. of Cases with the Actual Lost-time Injury x Shore Staff # Actual 4 4 Lost-time Injury Rate xi Shore Staff # Actual 0.0509 0.0488 No. of Cases with the Actual Lost-time Injury Sea Staff # Actual 4 2 Lost-time Injury Rate Sea Staff # Actual 0.198 0.097 G4-LA1 Employee Turnover (Voluntary) Shore Staff % Actual 12.5 12.2 Sea Staff % Actual 9.6 10.7 Consolidated Group Total % Actual 11.9 12.0 By Region Mainland China % Actual 14.8 15.5 Hong Kong % Actual 12.5 9.2 North America % Actual 4.3 5.6 Europe % Actual 6.5 8.5 Others % Actual 10.1 9.3 62 Performance Data Summary GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2015 2016 By Gender Women % Actual 10.9 12.3 Men % Actual 13.0 11.5 By Age Group Under 30 Years Old % Actual 20.3 22.0 30-39 Years Old % Actual 8.5 7.6 40-49 Years Old % Actual 5.0 4.4 50 Years Old and Above % Actual 3.0 2.0 G4-11 Labour / Management Relation Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) xii % Actual 100 100 G4-LA10 Trainings Online Courses or Exams at ePeopleSmart Enrolled # Actual 27,411 30,964 Competition Compliance Training (participation rate) % Actual 99.59 99.89 Cyber Security Awareness Training (participation rate) % Actual 96.23 97.74 G4-LA12 Breakdown of Workforce (Onshore) By Gender Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Women in Workforce % Actual 53.89 53.93 Men in Workforce % Actual 46.11 46.07 By Age Group Under 30 Years Old % Actual 40.16 39.76 30-39 Years Old % Actual 32.97 32.51 40-49 Years Old % Actual 16.33 16.83 50 Years Old and Above % Actual 10.54 10.90 G4-LA12 Nationality Mix of Seafarers Mainland China % Actual 61.8 59.5 Hong Kong % Actual 5.7 5.3 Europe % Actual 5.7 4.7 Malaysia % Actual 4.4 4.3 Philippines % Actual 20.7 24.5 Singapore % Actual 1.4 1.4 Others % Actual 0.3 0.3 G4-HR3 Human & Labour Rights Incidents of Discrimination & Labour Right Issues xiii # Actual 0 0 Performance Data Summary 63 GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2015 2016 Actions Taken in Response to Incidents # Actual 0 0 Incidents of Human Rights Violations xiv # Actual 0 0 Actions Taken in Response to Incidents # Actual 0 0 G4-SO5 Corruption Anti-corruption Training (participation rate) xv, xvi % Actual 33.3 33.3 Communication of Anti-corruption Policy to Employees xvii % Actual 100 100 Incidents of Corruption # Actual 0 0 Actions Taken in Response to Incidents # Actual 0 0 Cost of Fines, Penalties or Settlements # Actual 0 0 G4-SO6 Public Policy Political Contributions Made US$ Actual 0 0 G4-EC1 Economic Performance Revenue US$ Thousand 5,953,444 5,297,693 Carbon Offset Renewable Energy Credits VCU xviii Actual 3,402 6,367 Management Systems Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 Percentage of Owned Vessels with SQE Certification xix % Actual 100 100 Notes: i. The companies under the Group are omitted from the Sustainability Report either due to a low percentage of ownership or insignificant size of the companies. ii. Solar energy was harnessed in the Company’s solar panel installation project in UK. iii. TEU stands for Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit. iv. Water discharge is assumed to be equivalent to the consumed potable water. v. Metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent denoted as “MtCO2e”. vi. Emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) are considered negligible and are not quantified. vii. A minor incident was reported on the improper discharge of food waste. We took immediate measures to make improvements and enhance the implementation of the Safety Management System on board the vessel. An internal audit and investigation on board was conducted to better understand the root cause of this case. As a lesson learnt, we have shared our experience from this case with the crew on all our other vessels. No fine was imposed by the authorities. viii. Headcount is in terms of Full Time Equivalent (FTE). ix. Case reported to MARDEP. Investigation carried out and Case Studies issued. The case was shared with fleet vessels. x. Lost-time Injury means the result in the lost time of a minimum of one day. xi. Lost-time Injury Rate represents the number of Lost-time Injuries per 100 employees per year. xii. Percentage of crews covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA). xiii. Labour issues covers child labour, forced labour, working hours, wage, etc. xiv. Human rights represents workforce diversity, equal opportunities, discrimination, etc. xv. Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) was invited to provide seminar for Hong Kong staff to understand the legal requirements and company policy in preventing corruption; and acquire enhanced knowledge / skills to handle ethical dilemmas at the workplace; and arouse their awareness on the vulnerability and corruption risk at work. xvi. It represents the participation rate of Hong Kong staff. xvii. The updated Code of Conduct with anti-bribery policy is available in an accessible format at our intranet HQ Portal for employees. xviii. VCU stands for Verified Carbon Unit. xix. The general management principles embodied by the ISM Code, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 have been incorporated in SQE certification requirement. 64 HKEx ESG Reporting Guide Index Appendix 27 Compliance List Section / Statement Aspect A1: Emissions General disclosure Disclosure statement Corporate Governance (p.10); The Environment (p.19); Performance Data Summary (p.61, 63) KPI A1.1 Type of emissions and data Performance Data Summary (p.60) KPI A1.2 GHG emissions in total tonnes and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.60) KPI A1.3 Hazardous waste produced and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.60) KPI A1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.60) KPI A1.5 Measures to mitigate emissions and results The Environment (p.20-24, 26) KPI A1.6 Handling of waste and reduction initiatives The Environment (p.23, 25) Aspect A2: Use of Resources General disclosure Disclosure statement Corporate Governance (p.10); The Environment (p.24) Direct / Indirect Energy consumption by type and KPI A2.1 Performance Data Summary (p.59) intensity KPI A2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.60) KPI A2.3 Energy efficiency initiatives The Environment (p.22, 25, 27-28) KPI A2.4 Issues in sourcing water & water efficiency initiatives The Environment (p.23-24) KPI A2.5 Total packaging material Not applicable as our business does not manufacture or sell any physical product Aspect A3: The Environment and Natural Resources Orient Overseas (International) Limited ï Sustainability Report 2016 General disclosure Disclosure statement Corporate Governance (p.10); The Environment (p.23) KPI A3.1 Description of significant impacts of activities The Environment (p.23, 25, 28) Aspect B1: Employment General disclosure Disclosure statement Corporate Governance (p.11); Our People (p.44) Aspect B2: Health and Safety General disclosure Disclosure statement Corporate Governance (p.10); Health & Safety (p.32) Aspect B3: Development and Training General disclosure Disclosure statement Our People (p.40-41) Aspect B4: Labour Standards General disclosure Disclosure statement Corporate Governance (p.11-12) Aspect B5: Supply Chain Management General disclosure Disclosure statement Corporate Governance (p.10) Aspect B6: Product Responsibility Corporate Governance (p.10, 13) / We have covered the information on policies and compliance matters relating to health and General disclosure Disclosure statement safety, advertising, and privacy matters relating to services, except labeling to product, which is not applicable as our business does not manufacture or sell any physical product Aspect B7: Anti-corruption General disclosure Disclosure statement Corporate Governance (p.11-12) Aspect B8: Community Investment General disclosure Disclosure statement The Community (p.45, 48) Orient Overseas (International) Limited (Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability) 33rd Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong Telephone: (852) 2833 3838 www.ooilgroup.com Printed on FSCTM certified paper and with soy ink 本書刊採用FSCTM認證紙張及環保大豆油墨印製
