Will you wait for the future to happen, or take a hand in shaping it? As a founding member of the United Nations Global Compact Network in Romania, we are committed to supporting sustainable development, thus building a better working world. The better the question. The better the answer. The better the world works. Foreword We uphold the UNGC by: Business has always been a risky, but full of opportunities endeavor. This is all the more true today, when the changes in technology happen at an astounding pace. The widespread access to information has produced more knowledgeable consumers and investors, who demand from companies to take responsibility for the effects Supporting Supporting Supporting a they have on people and the environment. This implies that, at the very least, companies should our people our clients sustainable 16 make sure that they’re not turning the world into 5 10 environment a worse place to live in. At EY, we’re aiming higher; we strive to build a better working world – a world in which poverty and inequalities are sparse, a world which enjoys long-term prosperity. We are a founding member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Romania Network because we believe that its Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals represent our higher goal, that no company can reach by itself. Bogdan Ion In 2016, we have continued to support the growth Country Managing Partner EY Romania of Romanian entrepreneurial companies and diverse communities. We have provided regulators and investors with the expertise that comes from our multi-skilled and multicultural teams. This report highlights our efforts to uphold responsibility and sustainability throughout our activities. We thus renew, once again, our proud commitment to the UNGC. Communication on Progress / 2016 3 UN Global Compact This Communication on Progress provides brief highlights of actions that EY is taking in Romania to address United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti–corruption. The 10 principles are listed below, and throughout the report you will see how EY upholds them. Principles 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human rights internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our people 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining come first 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Labor 5 The effective abolition of child labor 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation At EY Romania, our people are the most After all, a diversity of ideas enables us to provide the best services for our clients. important and we do our best to create a We want to make sure that our talented working place where they feel rewarded. people have the best environment to develop 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to That’s why we attract individuals from professionally and personally, so that they can environmental challenges different backgrounds who bring their own reach their goals, have amazing experiences 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental and create their own personal brand. We responsibility points of view and unique business skills. attract people with integrity, who have a Environment 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Creating the highest-performing teams with clear sense of personal and professional friendly technologies people that hold a variety of perspectives is accountability, people with courage to lead, who can inspire and motivate others, people central to EY’s long-term strategy. with energy and enthusiasm, passionate about helping our clients meet their expectations. To support this promise, we create a valuable professional experience, by seeking out Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should support and respect the protection of diversity, promoting constant learning and internationally proclaimed human rights development, offering flexibility and, above all, protecting the safety and the well-being of our employees. 4 Communication on Progress / 2016 5 “The record of candidates enrolled in the junior recruitment program reflects the activity of the last few years, in which we have built together with the students Junior Recruitment Students from Bucharest, Cluj-Napoca, a solid bridge of mutual Iași, Timișoara, Craiova and Chișinau knowledge. Romanian students Campaign applied for junior positions at EY and had the opportunity to meet us In 2016, more than 3500 students went through a complex recruitment both in the virtual space and applied for positions opened at EY process that lasted more than three directly, which helped them Romania 55% more than the previous months. It had six stages: online have a clear picture of what it year. This number represents an applications, CVs preselection, initial means to work at EY Romania. absolute record for our company, in assessment by psychometric testing of They found here a charming almost 25 years of presence on the logical and verbal intelligence, video combination of passion for Romanian market. Out of the 3 500 interviews, participation in the EY Mega excellence, authenticity and participants, 80 were recruited to Days evaluation center and face-to-face join EY in autumn. More than half of enthusiasm, on top of the final interviews. them are going to work for the Audit professional rigor.” 70 professionals from the company department, and the rest will join Andreea Mihnea and 20 students, EY ambassadors from the Tax and Legal, Transactions and Bucharest, Timisoara and Craiova, were HR Director, EY Romania Advisory departments. actively involved in 45 career events, held from January to June 2016: job fairs, workshops, conferences, open doors events or career days. The exceptional EY experience Because time is people’s most valuable possession, we want to make sure that, at EY Romania, we provide the best environment for everybody’s career development complex projects that are essential for honing old skills and Building diverse leadership teams by increasing the number of senior women leaders is a key focus for us: 3500 6 80 joined developing new ones. applicants selection We also think that learning is an ongoing process, that’s At EY we work to ensure stages why our global learning curriculum helps employees to that everybody has equal acquire the knowledge and skills that are designed to last opportunities. As a result, a lifetime. We currently offer more than 16.000 courses out of 716 people* working at EY Romania, 465 are women. 65% on our learning management system. They are designed to women teach or help refresh technical skills across service lines, in order to provide excellent services to our clients. There are also many opportunities to enhance leadership skills, building an expertise that can be used both inside and outside EY. Furthermore 68% of managers in Over 3,500 applicants 6 selection stages Over 80 juniors joined 68% from Bucharest, Chișinău, EY in September 2016 Promoting diversity and inclusiveness women are women. Timișoara, Iași, Cluj-Napoca, Online applications We think broadly about differences background, Craiova CVs preselection education, gender, ethnicity, nationality, age, working and thinking styles. Each of us is different and we value Within our management team, 51% of Aptitude and psychometric testing and respect the things that make us unique. We make our Partners & Executive Directors are women best to create an environment where all of our people feel Video interviews valued, where they are able to bring their differences to work each day. EY Mega Days assessment center Inclusiveness is about leveraging those differences: everyone’s opinion is important and we want our people Face to face final to feel the easiness of sharing their thoughts no matter interviews what. In this way everyone contributes to their personal * Average number of employees in Romania in 2016 best in every encounter and this ultimately achieves better business results. 6 Communication on Progress / 2016 Communication on Progress / 2016 7 Are today’s businesses prepared for what doesn’t exist yet? Navigate the transformative age with the better-connected consultants. ey.com/consulting #BetterQuestions #BetterConnections EY Young Tax Development through Flexible work environment Professional of the Year world-class learning Flexibility has become increasingly Program more important for employees, Helping our people through their EY Young Tax Professional of the learning process is fundamental in order who want to have a career without Year Program is organized every to create value for both our employees neglecting the personal aspects of their year and offers students from 20 and clients. To do that, we have a unique lives, such as family commitments, countries the opportunity to show global career development framework volunteering or doing sports. At their technical and professional skills called EYU, standing for EY and YOU EY Romania, people can apply to in the field of taxation. EY Romania is and focused on coaching EY people to WorkSmart program, which allows affiliated to the global program since achieve their goals. them to work remotely, choosing 2010. In 2016, 38 students were flexible hours. 48% of our people EYU links to our global Performance have accessed the program in 2016, selected from over 600 sign-ups to Management and Development participate in the EY Tax Academy. which is an increase of more than 10% Process (PMDP). This program focuses compared to 2015. We encourage on feedback, development and the everyone to apply and use the flexible Following this edition, 18 finalists relationship between the counselor and arrangements available. received junior positions at EY the counselee and their engagement Romania, and Iulia Laura Samson with the business strategy. One of was elected as the winner of this the aims of this program is to create year’s competition. a common understanding across the During the final stage of the organization, agree on expectations and competition, that takes place in use these agreements as the basis for Amsterdam, students will have to measurement, review and preparation analyze case studies and will be of plans for performance improvement interviewed by the jury. and development. To make it easier for our people to monitor their performance path and seek feedback along the way, we created My Development Site. We think that our employees’ development is the heart of our culture because it contributes to an engaging workplace, provides opportunities for everyone and helps deliver unique services to our clients. The better the question. The better the answer. The better the world works. Communication on Progress / 2016 9 Our values are the core of our business Our values are the backbone of EY’s culture and they guide our actions and behavior. They represent our commitment to all our stakeholders that we understand the confidence that they place in us to deliver quality and excellence in everything we do. Who are we? Code of conduct Our Global Code of Conduct is The Global Code of Conduct applies organized into five categories to everyone at EY, regardless of their The EY Global Code of Conduct containing guiding principles that individual role, position or practice. provides the ethical framework on should be used by everyone within EY which we base our decisions — as to guide our behavior across all areas individuals and as members of our of our activity: global organization. The Code is anchored in our values Working with one another and beliefs, and underpins all that Working with clients and others we do. People with energy, People who build People who demonstrate Acting with professional integrity enthusiasm, and the relationships based on integrity, respect, and Maintaining our objectivity and courage to lead doing the right thing teaming independence Respecting intellectual capital 10 Communication on Progress / 2016 Communication on Progress / 2016 11 Compliance with legal requirements Anti Bribery Trade sanctions Internal quality control The Anti-bribery Global Policy Given the level of EY’s global systems emphasizes the obligation of our integration, it is important that we are Providing high-quality professional people to comply with anti-bribery laws aware of the ever-changing situation audit services independently, and provides a clear definition of what in respect of international trade objectively and ethically is fundamental constitutes bribery. It also identifies sanctions. EY monitors sanctions to EY member firms’ success as reporting responsibilities when bribery issued in multiple geographies and independent auditors. is discovered. provides guidance to our people on impacted activities. We continue to invest in initiatives Anti Money Laundering to promote enhanced objectivity, Our risk policy sets out the principles Insider trading independence and professional skepticism. For example, we have: to be applied by our staff to counteract The Insider Trading Global Policy money laundering and terrorist reaffirms the obligation of our people • Designed a comprehensive set of financing. The two major subjects are not to trade in securities with insider global audit quality control policies and client examination and the reporting of information, provides detail on what practices that meet the requirements unusual transactions; both subjects are constitutes insider information and of the International Standards addressed in this policy. identifies with whom our people on Quality Control, issued by the should consult if they have questions International Auditing and Assurance Document retention regarding their responsibilities. Standards Board (IAASB). EY member firms apply their retention policies to all engagements and Data privacy • A Client Acceptance and Continuance Policy that sets out principles to personnel. All documents must be The Global Personal Data Privacy Policy determine whether to either accept preserved whenever any person sets out the principles to be applied a new client or engagement or becomes aware of any actual or to the use and protection of personal to continue an existing client or Supporting translate their strategy into reality through better risk management, reasonably anticipated claim, litigation, investigation, subpoena or other data, including that relating to current, past and prospective personnel, clients, engagement. Is your nonfinancial our clients Independence practices improved finance functions, and government proceeding involving us suppliers and business associates. better supply chain and customer performance or one of our clients that may relate to For more information, see EY Romania Auditor independence is fundamental management. our work. revealing the Transparency Report 2016. to the quality of audits and investor Services that build a Advisory’s sub-service lines include: true value of www.eyromania.ro/ confidence in financial reporting and Performance Improvement, Risk, and better working world IT Risk and Assurance. It has deep your business to transparencyreport2016.pdf more broadly in the capital markets. We have a number of policies and Through every interaction with a client competencies in risk, finance, supply investors? systems in place to support this. or colleague, our people are making the chain and customer and information www.eyromania.ro/ working world a better place than it was technology. eyccassinvestorsurvey2017.pdf Audit partner rotation before. And our services are helping to EY supports audit partner rotation build trust and confidence. Helping companies become because it provides a fresh perspective The Assurance service line brings more sustainable and promotes independence from confidence to stakeholders. Auditors company management, while retaining Through the Climate Change & expertise and knowledge of the play a vital role in the efficient Sustainability Services, we help clients Detecting fraud and business. Audit partner rotation, functioning of our capital markets by deal with one of the most challenging combined with independence promoting transparency and supporting issues of our time. We have a wide managing risk investor confidence. requirements, enhanced systems span of services, ranging from waste Our fraud investigation & dispute of internal quality controls and The Transaction Advisory Services management to environmental professionals help clients deal with independent audit oversight, helps (TAS) helps clients raise, preserve, reporting. complex issues of fraud, regulatory strengthen independence and invest and optimize capital. compliance and business disputes. We objectivity. In addition to creating greater transparency, this can also help reduce do this by assembling teams who bring Tax service line helps clients meet the use of natural resources, increase their broad sector experience, their their complex tax obligations and to efficiency and improve operational deep subject matter knowledge and understand risks associated with their performance. the latest insights from our work. As a tax decisions. consequence, we are helping to build Advisory service line improves clients’ Transparent reporting increases a trust in the marketplace. performance by helping them to company’s reputation, its access to capital and the trust of its stakeholders. 12 Communication on Progress / 2016 Communication on Progress / 2016 13 Communication and Supporting EY Entrepreneur Of The Year™ Corporate Social Entrepreneurs As the first and only truly global award of its kind, Responsibility the EY World Entrepreneur Of The Year™ celebrates those who are building and leading successful, growing and dynamic businesses, recognizing them through regional and national awards programs in over 150 cities in more than 60 countries. Each nation’s winner then competes for the title of EY We believe entrepreneurs are key to CSR Initiatives EY Thought Leadership Spreading the knowledge economic health. Nowadays, when volatility World Entrepreneur Of The Year™. is higher than ever, the entrepreneurs are Our aim is to improve disadvantaged in Romania In 2016, we brought our knowledge to In 2016, we organized the third edition of EY circumstances through support and the general public through 170 press those who continue to create value and to We conduct annually surveys Entrepreneur Of The Year in Romania, which had 50 involvement of individuals and groups. releases, various interviews and opinion believe in the future of business and in their and studies that provide relevant teams. That’s why we made it our aim to participants. The companies they represent cover The EY volunteers tribe has worked information on the local market. Thus, pieces. Similar to the previous year, EY discover, celebrate and support our local various economic sectors: from food industry and with children in orphanages over the EY has become a valuable source Romania ranked first in terms of share entrepreneurs. production of bicycles, to IT expertise, healthcare summer of 2016 and, in October, we of insights, for both clients and the of voice, by capturing 36% of all articles and publishing. All in all, they have an aggregated have organized the first volunteering mass-media. In 2016 we developed mentioning Big4 companies, according We also believe that by supporting fair at the office, in order to connect to the Mediafax monitoring program. revenue of 535 million euros, 8.000 employees and eight local surveys, mainly focused on entrepreneurship — through teaching, our people to NGOs and projects that an average number of 180 employees in 2015. entrepreneurship, talent and M&A. collaboration and our intellectual capital meet their personal beliefs and desires. — we can address the issue of youth Find out more: www.eyromania.ro/eoty Our effort is built up throughout the EY contributes actively to the local 7000 unemployment. This is why, in addition to year and we will continue to bring the hundreds of young people we hire, we CSR culture by playing a leading unique and timely information about help thousands more develop the skills The winners of role in assessing the Romanian CSR the local economy. needed to join the working world as young environment. In partnership with press references Entrepreneur Of The Year Romania 2016 in 2016 entrepreneurs or to become more valued CSRmedia.ro, we launched in 2016 the employees. fourth edition of CSR Survey, which Entrepreneur Of The Year Cristian Covaciu explored local executives’ perception of IPEC corporate social responsibility projects. 800 We also supported Publica publishing employees house to launch in Romania some of 22 million EUR 250 the most important books on business turnover in 2015 industrial robots and personal development. Emerging Entrepreneur Of The Year Daniel Dines UiPath 120 employees 600% increase in 4 in turnover in 2015 countries Social Entrepreneur Of The Year Angela Achiței 70 Fundația “Alături de voi” employees 14 Communication on Progress / 2016 Communication on Progress / 2016 15 Does growth have to cost the Earth? Find out how EY’s 7 Drivers of Growth can help your business grow from challenger to leader. Supporting ey.com/acceleratinggrowth #BetterQuestions environmental sustainability At EY, we are working towards minimizing the negative effects of climate change by helping our clients transition towards a low-carbon economy. At the same time, we’re challenging ourselves to work in a more environmentally sustainable manner and to find new ways to reduce our carbon footprint and waste stream. “The youngest service line at EY Romania carries the notion of sustainable growth to our clients in diverse sectors. We are committed to building a better working world – the one in which companies preserve natural resources via considering impact of their operations for the environment and the community.” Burcin Atakan Climate Change & Sustainability Services Leader, EY Romania The better the question. The better the answer. The better the world works. Communication on Progress / 2016 17 Methodology All carbon calculations about EY Romania’s operational carbon footprint In 2016, EY Romania follow the methodology and guidelines has significantly provided by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development decreased its carbon Greenhouse Gas Protocol. footprint Data collection 2015 We collect activity data from all our > 2016 offices in Romania in order to estimate our emissions. This data is then multiplied with the corresponding 1215 1123 tCO2eq tCO2eq conversion factors. • Emissions from offices energy consumption are estimated using activity data collected from our main office in Bucharest, alongside the ones in Cluj-Napoca, Iași and Timișoara. • Emissions from air travel are Helping our clients estimated taking into consideration Managing our carbon EY Romania has implemented the all routes, class ticket and number of footprint certified quality and environment passengers. become more Although travel is critical to our management systems according to ISO 9001:2008 si ISO 14001:2004. • Emissions from ground travel are sustainable business, we continue to invest in ways estimated using fuel consumption and to reduce our biggest environmental fuel/engine efficiency. impacts of business travel and office • Emissions from hotel stays are energy, and to improve the way we estimated considering the time of year, measure our progress. For us, reporting number of people and number of nights Our CCaSS team helps clients reach their the carbon footprint means both taking for both internal and external stays. sustainability goals by providing a range of skills responsibility for our environmental • Emissions from printed materials and services. impact and being transparent with our are estimated taking into account the clients and stakeholders. format of the printing and number of We help organizations understand the components copies. of a sustainability strategy and improve their performance. We have developed regional best practices to help clients address the most important sustainability factors, including managing risk in a resource-constrained economy. EY Romania’s Emissions from office Total travel Paper We advise clients on meeting compliance targets carbon footprint energy consumption and emissions consumption related to waste management and pollution, helping them to reduce carbon emissions and EY owned vehicles enhance their corporate reputation. 1123 956.4 53.42 104.42 tCO2eq tCO2eq tCO2eq tCO2eq 1.56 Accounting for 86% Accounting for 5% Accounting for 9% tCO2eq / FTE of the total impact of the total impact of the total impact 18 Communication on Progress / 2016 Communication on Progress / 2016 19 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is one of the world’s leading professional services firms with approximately cu 230.000 employees in 700 offices across 150 countries, and revenues of approximately $29.6 billion in the fiscal year that ended on 30 June 2016. Our network is the most integrated at global level and its vast resources allow us to help our clients benefit from every opportunity. In Romania, EY has been a leader on the professional services market since its set up in 1992. Our 700 employees in Romania and Moldova provide seamless assurance, tax, transactions, and advisory services to clients ranging from multinationals to local companies. Our offices are based in Bucharest, Cluj-Napoca, Timișoara, Iași and Chișinau. In 2014, EY Romania joined the only global competition dedicated to entrepreneurship, EY Entrepreneur Of The Year. The winner of the local edition has the chance to represent the country in the world-finals which take place each year in June, in Monte Carlo. The title for World Entrepreneur Of The Year is attributed at this event. For more information, please visit www.ey.com Contact Burcin Atakan Partner, Climate Change & Sustainability Services EY Romania +40 21 402 4000 Adina Scorțescu Corporate Communication & CSR Officer EY Romania +40 21 402 4000 All Rights Reserved. ©2017 EY Romania
