Dedicated to meeting our commitments Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Fresnillo plc is the world’s leading silver miner and one of Mexico’s largest gold producers. Our solid track record in creating long-term value is underpinned by our strong balance sheet, high quality assets, low cost and flexible operations, disciplined approach to development and sustainable business practices. For 2017, we are intensifying our focus on meeting near-term operational commitments, including maximising the potential of our flagship Fresnillo mine, delivering the second phase of the San Julián mine and improving our safety metrics. Fresnillo Today 76 Letter from the Chairman Financial Statements 01 Performance Highlights of the HSECR Committee 157 Independent 02 Who We Are 77 Social and Sustainability Auditor’s Reports 04 Where We Operate Report 167 Consolidated 05 A Strong Growth Pipeline 100 Financial Review Income Statement 06 Chairman’s Statement 168 Consolidated Statement Corporate Governance of Comprehensive Income Strategic Report 113 Chairman’s Letter 169 Consolidated Balance Sheet 10 Advancing Towards our of Governance 170 Consolidated Statement 2018 Production Goals 114 Fresnillo and of Cash Flows 12 Disciplined Growth Through Corporate Governance 171 Consolidated Statement Exploration and Development 116 The Board of Directors of Changes in Equity 14 Safety and Support of 118 Executive Committee 172 Notes to the Consolidated the Workforce 119 Board Structure Financial Statements 16 Chief Executive’s Letter 120 Effectiveness 215 Parent Company Statement 19 Investment Case 124 Relations with Shareholders of Comprehensive Income 20 Market Overview 126 Nominations 216 Parent Company 22 Business Model and Strategy Committee Report Balance Sheet 28 2016 Performance 128 Audit Committee Report 217 Parent Company and 2017 Targets 138 Directors’ Remuneration Statement of Cash Flows 30 Key Performance Indicators Report 218 Parent Company Statement 42 Managing Our Risks 154 Directors’ Report of Changes of Equity 54 Viability Statement 156 Statement of Directors’ 219 Notes to the Parent Company 56 Information Technology Responsibilities Financial Statements 58 Review of Operations 242 Operating Statistics 244 Reserves and Resources 249 Shareholder Information Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 01 Performance Highlights Operational highlights FRESNILLO TODAY Silver production Total attributable silver resources • Annual silver production up 7.1% 50.3 moz 2,171.5 moz in line with guidance, driven by the start-up of phase I at San Julián, higher ore grades at Fresnillo +7.1% +10.2% and Ciénega and an increased Silverstream contribution. • Gold production up 22.8% Gold production Total attributable gold resources exceeding the revised guidance 935.5 koz 38.4 moz primarily due to the reduction of gold inventories at Herradura and San Julián phase I start-up. STRATEGIC REPORT +22.8% +8.2% • San Julián phase I commissioned, production already exceeding design capacity. • Gold and silver resources increased Read more about our operations Read more about exploration 8.2% and 10.2%, respectively, gold 1 See pages 58-67 3 See pages 71-75 reserves remained stable and silver reserves decreased 3.2%. • Three fatalities in 2016 and one in early 2017; renewed focus on safety culture throughout the year. Financial highlights CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Adjusted revenue 1 Profit from continuing operations • Adjusted revenue 1 of US$2,045.0 $2,045.0m $676.5m million, up 29.2% over 2015 due to higher volumes and metal prices. • Profit for the year US$425.0 million, +29.2% +237.5% up 512.4%. • Net operating cash flow of US$898.0 million, up 65.4%. Gross profit Adjusted EPS 2 • Capex of US$434.1 million, down $882.1m $45.3cents 8.6%; exploration expenses of US$121.2 million, down 13.6%; US$88.2 million of dividends paid, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS +103.7% +556.5% up 135.1%. • Healthy balance sheet and low EBITDA Total dividends paid leverage ratio; cash position 3 $1,032.0m $11.9cents of US$912.0 million, up 82.3%. +88.5% +133.3% 1. Adjusted revenues is the revenue shown in the income statement adjusted to add back treatment and refining costs and gold, lead and zinc hedging. The Company considers this a useful additional measure to help understand underlying factors driving revenue in terms of volumes sold and realised prices. 2. Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract. 3. Cash position is comprised of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. 02 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Who We Are Fresnillo plc is the world’s leading silver producer and one of Mexico’s largest gold producers. We are a FTSE 100 company headquartered in Mexico City, with shares trading on the London and Mexican Stock Exchanges. Strategy Business Model We seek to create value for stakeholders Gold and silver mining is the heart across precious metal cycles, focusing of our business model. on high potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world-class mines. We generate revenue by selling the metals contained in the ore we extract and process. Maximise the potential 1 We ensure the longevity of existing operations of our business by creating and growing Optimise capacity, replenish reserves, continuously sustained and shared improve productivity and cost structure, and leverage value for all stakeholders. expansion opportunities. See pages 22-27 1 Deliver growth through 2 development projects 2 Develop, build and commission projects that meet stringent criteria for mineral content and associated costs. Extend the growth 3 3 pipeline Invest continuously across price cycles to ensure a pipeline of growth projects at different stages. 4 Advance and enhance the 4 sustainability of our business Prioritise safety and health, responsible environmental stewardship, the wellbeing of our communities, best governance practices and a strong ethical culture. Responsible Mining Practices The Health, Safety, Environment & Community Relations (HSECR) Committee evaluates the effectiveness of management to meet the sustainability challenge, and oversees the culture and ethics programme. See pages 76-99 Deepening of the San Carlos shaft Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 03 FRESNILLO TODAY Alberto Baillères, Chairman Octavio Alvídrez, CEO See pages 6-9 See pages 16-18 STRATEGIC REPORT Performance Delivering on our production goals, profitably and sustainably. Silver production Gold production 50.3 moz 47.0 50.3 935.5 koz 42.9 45.0 41.1 935.5 43.0 45.7 761.7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 39.0 40.4 687.5 37.1 610.9 595.9 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Graph illustrates silver production from our All figures include 100% of production from own mines, with shaded portion representing the Penmont mines (Herradura, Soledadadditional ounces accrued under the Dipolos and Noche Buena). Silverstream contract. 2016 EBITDA margin 2016 EBITDA 54.2% US$1,032m 2016 Silver production by mine 2016 Gold production by mine FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key Key Saucito44% Herradura56% Fresnillo32% Noche Buena 20% Ciénega10% Saucito9% San Julián 4% Ciénega8% Herradura1% Fresnillo4% Noche Buena 0% San Julián 3% Silverstream9% See pages 58-69 See pages 58-69 04 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Where We Operate Mexico has a long mining history, 6 USA 8 with vast geological potential, 11 4 a skilled workforce, established 5 MEXICO mining laws and mechanisms for creating shared value. We are also exploring growth opportunities 9 elsewhere in Latin America. 7 USA 3 12 1 10 2 1 Mines in operation 1 Fresnillo 2 Saucito 3 Ciénega & San Ramón Satellite Silver reserves 205.5 moz Silver reserves 123.2 moz Silver reserves 66.3 moz Gold reserves 600 koz Gold reserves 860 koz Gold reserves 820.0 koz See pages 58-59 See pages 60-61 See pages 62-63 4 Herradura (Incl DLP) 5 Noche Buena 6 Soledad-Dipolos Gold reserves 5.2 moz Gold reserves 0.9 moz Gold reserves 0.8 moz See pages 64-65 See pages 66-67 Operations at Soledad-Dipolos are currently suspended 2 Development and advanced exploration projects 7 San Julián (Phases I & II) 8 Centauro Extension 9 Orisyvo Silver reserves 135.3 moz Evolution of main pit at Herradura; Silver resources 12.3 moz Gold reserves 420.0 koz resources included therein Gold resources 9.6 moz See pages 68-69 See page 64 See page 74 10 Juanicipio 11 Centauro Deep 12 Las Casas, Cebollitas Cluster Silver resources 138.7 moz Indicated and inferred resources: Reported as part of Ciénega Gold resources 772.0 koz Gold 830.0 koz See page 73 See page 72 See page 72 Expected delivery of growth Project 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Investment 1 Expected avg. (US$m) annual production 2 10.3 moz Ag San Julián 515 44 koz Au Pyrites Plant 3.5 moz Ag 155 (Optimisation project) 13 koz Au Extended LoM Centauro Extension 110 of 390 koz Au Fresnillo 9,000 TPD 30 3 moz Ag (Optimisation project) 10 moz Ag Juanicipio 305 3 30 koz Au Ciénega 5,000 TPD 15 koz Au 55 (Optimisation project) 1.3 moz Ag Centauro Deep 130 65 koz Au Orisyvo 4 350 136 koz Au 1  stimated. E Construction flotation plant, Construction tailings flotation Construction leaching plant, Plant adequation, Plant construction 2 Total average annual production. 3 Represents 100% of the investment (56% Fresnillo plc + 44% MAG Production Development & Construction Permitting, Development & Construction Detailed engineering Silver) according to pre-feasibility study dated June 2012. 4 On hold. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 05 A Strong Growth Pipeline Our goal is to profitably and sustainably FRESNILLO TODAY maintain the Group’s position as the world’s leading silver producer and one of Mexico’s largest gold producers. STRATEGIC REPORT 1 Mines in operation Maximise the potential of existing operations Mine operations 1 Fresnillo, 2 Saucito, 3 Ciénega & San Ramón, 4 Herradura (incl. DLP), 5 Noche Buena, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 6 Soledad-Dipolos 1 2 Development and advanced 7 San Julián (phase I) exploration projects Deliver growth through development projects Development projects 1,2 Pyrites Plant, 7 San Julián (phase II), 8 Centauro extension Advanced exploration 9 Orisyvo, 10 Juanicipio, 11 Centauro Deep, 3 Exploration 12 Las Casas, Cebollitas Cluster, Extend the growth Rodeo, Guanajuato FINANCIAL STATEMENTS pipeline Prospects in drilling Fresnillo District: Tajitos, Candameña, Guachichi, Pilarica (Peru), San Nicolás, Guazapares, Olivos, Coneto, Lucerito, San Juan, San Agustin, Minitas, Cebadillas, La Yesca, Dátil, Norias, Argentum Early stage exploration Sonora and Sinaloa: Nudo, Lejano, Carina, Cerritos, Rosario, Sierra Pinta, Elena, San Manuel, Santo Niño Chihuahua: Rosetillas, SJ Pinal, Lucero, Tempisque, Uruachi Durango: Frida, Canelas-VTopia, El Carmen, El Hundido Zacatecas: Urite, Atotonilco, Corredor Concha-Nieves, Villa García Peru: Sto. Domingo, La Pampa, Supaypacha, Alto Dorado 4 Sustainable development Advance and enhance the sustainability of our business 1. Operations at Soledad-Dipolos are currently suspended. 06 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Chairman’s Statement Meeting our commitments Over the course of Fresnillo plc’s eight Against this backdrop, we have remained years as a publicly listed company, firmly committed to creating sustained a number of trends have reshaped the and shared value for all our stakeholders, global mining industry and altered the competitive landscape: pressure on We seek to focusing on efficient, competitive operations and high potential silver profitability arising from commodity price and currency volatility, rising costs, ensure that and gold projects that can be developed into low cost mines able to withstand and maturing mines with declining ore grades; lower rates of return on capital capital allocation unpredictable metal prices. We have invested consistently over the cycle, projects concurrent with increased shareholder appetite for returns; rising balances growth, and thus have been able to grow and retain a motivated and qualified team. social and environmental awareness; and governmental initiatives to regulate and shareholder Our strategic direction, combined with quality assets, operational flexibility and returns, financial derive additional revenue from the sector, efficiency, solid financial position and among others. enduring commitment to responsible strength and business practices are the pillars of long-term value creation. flexibility, within The year in review Precious metal prices, while still volatile, the context performed well in 2016 and reversed their downward trend spanning several of a maturing years. Our average realised gold and silver prices rose 10.7% and 10.3%, respectively, sustainability over 2015. The Group’s gold and silver production increased 22.8% and 7.1%, framework. respectively, exceeding its gold production target for the year and meeting the target for silver. Better prices and higher volumes led to robust financial results. Your Company generated US$2,045.0 million in adjusted revenues in 2016, a rise of 29.2% over the prior year, with a 505.5% increase in profit attributable to shareholders and US$12.6 million distributed to employees and workers in profit sharing. The cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at year end were US$912.0 million and debt was US$800 million. continued on page 08 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 07 Our Values FRESNILLO TODAY We aspire to demonstrate a wellestablished ethical culture through our actions and behaviours. Our values are the cornerstone of our Ethics and Culture programme. ility Int e sib Res ity po gr STRATEGIC REPORT n Trust y y Lo al et f ty Sa CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Embedding best practices Our Code of Conduct, founded upon our values, is a set of rules and principles that guide our behaviours and actions, including guidance on complying with the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the Mexican General Law of the National Anti-Corruption System. Workshops and master classes are conducted regularly to embed ethics and integrity in the culture, in combination with an online training programme and evaluation to effectively reach employees. We recognise that embedding ethics in the culture as a core competence FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the organisational structure support our strategic and operating goals. Board oversight The Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee has been given responsibility for overseeing the ethics programme on behalf of the Board. See pages 91-92 Vertical conveyor at the Fresnillo mine 08 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Chairman’s Statement continued I deeply regret to report that three fatal accidents occurred in the year, as well as one in early 2017, a major setback for our safety programme. Following investigations, management has taken decisive steps to prevent the type of human errors that are invariably a root cause in these accidents. Safety continues to be our highest priority, above production and profitability, yet we recognise that even with best-in-class systems and practices in place, our safety culture must be further strengthened and deeply embedded within the Company. To that end, the Board’s Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations (HSECR) Committee continued to review the culture and values as part of its work However, we also encountered operational The Board approved the resumption of in overseeing the safety culture in 2016. challenges. The Fresnillo mine faced the Pyrites project in the Fresnillo District, ongoing issues and failed to reach its which will improve overall recoveries of Dividends projected production. While silver grades gold and silver contents by processing Fresnillo plc’s dividend policy takes into were slightly higher than in 2015, volumes historical and ongoing tailings from account the profitability of the business came under pressure due to a shortage the Fresnillo and Saucito mines, and underlying earnings, as well as the of skilled personnel, leading to insufficient which otherwise would have been lost. Group’s capital requirements and cash mine development and preparation, Always an attractive project from an flows. An annual dividend of between as well as narrower veins. Management IRR perspective, the Board’s decision 33-50% of profit after tax is paid out oversight and mine planning have been to resume construction was supported each year in the approximate proportion strengthened and we expect gradual and by better than expected cash generation of one-third as an interim dividend and continued improvement over the coming in the first half of the year and a healthy two-thirds as a final dividend. This provides year. Fortunately, a solid performance at balance sheet. the required flexibility to consider the Saucito and the initial contribution of San cyclical behaviour of precious metal prices Julián compensated for the shortfall and The Board also approved the construction and other factors that could affect our the Group as a whole met its silver targets of a second line at the Dynamic Leaching financial position. for the year. Plant (DLP) at Herradura to increase gold recovery from the Centauro pit, and thus For 2016, the Board declared an interim The first phase of San Julián was higher production from this mine. We dividend of 8.6 US cents per share and commissioned in the year, despite a delay, continue to evaluate a major expansion a final dividend of 21.5 US cents per and is now operating above its nominal of Herradura based on the most recent share, totalling US$158.4 million. We capacity, contributing to annual silver exploration results below the open pit. believe the Group remains well placed and gold production. The second phase is Furthermore, Juanicipio, our joint venture to meet its current and future financial expected to be commissioned in 2Q 2017, with Mag Silver, will be presented to the requirements, including its development also at a delay of several months from the Board for approval in 2017. and exploration projects. previous target, as the impact of certain external factors had been underestimated, Exploration results were positive, with an Our governance agenda including unforeseen extreme weather, 8.2% and 10.2% increase in total gold and The Board’s agenda in 2016 was focused delays in equipment deliveries and silver resources, respectively. Gold reserves on ensuring continued compliance with difficulties in obtaining permits. We remained stable, whilst silver reserves the UK Corporate Governance Code, remain confident that San Julián will be decreased 3.2%. Our resource base remains addressing outstanding and emerging a successful new mine and may open up very sound as we progress towards our issues related to our 2014 External Board additional growth potential in the district. 2018 goals. Evaluation action plan, Group culture and the composition of the Board with regards to the number of Independent Non-executive Directors. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 09 I am grateful for the service of the two For the near term, our focus will be on Key Board agenda FRESNILLO TODAY members who stood down from the Board efficiency, cost control and meeting our items in 2016 in 2016: Rafael MacGregor, Non-executive operational commitments: the turnaround Director, whose role as Chairman of of the Fresnillo mine and the successful • Safety and fatalities. the Health, Safety, Environment and start-up of the second phase of San Julián. • Corporate culture, organisational Community Relations Committee has We will continue to set the bar higher for effectiveness. been filled by Arturo Fernández, Nonourselves in other areas such as safety, • Fresnillo mine turnaround. executive Director; and María Asunción governance processes and organisational • San Julián Project deliverance. Aramburuzabala, Independent Noneffectiveness. The latter may be more • Preparation of first Viability executive Director who also served on the difficult to quantify, but is as vital to Statement. HSECR Committee. Both Directors made long-term shareholder value creation as significant contributions to the Board and our low cost operations, project pipeline • Dividend policy, hedging Company during their eight and four years and portfolio of exploration projects that programme, investment allocation. of respective service. serve as key drivers of future growth. • Board composition. STRATEGIC REPORT • Tender for 2017 external auditor Looking ahead Our ability to meet these commitments appointment. Despite their recovery during the year, we depends chiefly on our people. Together believe gold and silver prices will remain with my fellow Directors, I extend The Corporate Governance Report volatile. Indeed, renewed signs of weakness my gratitude for their dedication and set out on pages 113-156 illustrates the at year end 2016 due to expectations of hard work. full range of Committee activity and rising interest rates in the US point to the Board actions in pursuit of long-term uncertainty of any sustained recovery. Alberto Baillères shareholder value creation. Furthermore, geopolitical factors such as Non-executive Chairman Brexit, the new administration in the US, My colleagues and I take an active role in ongoing tensions in the Middle East and setting Group strategy, reviewing progress developments in China and India make against plan and ensuring sufficient forecasting unpredictable. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE flexibility to respond to changing market conditions within the context of our We therefore maintain our disciplined commitment to continuous investment approach to investment: growth projects through metal price cycles. As part of will continue to be evaluated against a the Board’s planning process, we seek range of metrics, including operational to ensure that capital allocation balances and technical factors, pricing and market growth, shareholder returns, financial considerations, and our financial position. strength and flexibility, within the context of a maturing sustainability framework For 2017, we have increased our year-oncentred on good corporate governance, year capital expenditures and exploration environmental stewardship and budget, by 71.1% over the 2016 spend, constructive community engagement. to US$950 million. We believe this level of investment enables us to achieve our FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board changes 2018 goals while setting the groundwork Charles Jacobs was appointed Senior for the next decade of the Company’s Independent Director at the AGM in May development. 2016, and we welcomed Alberto Tiburcio to the Board as an Independent NonDedicated to meeting our commitments executive Director, serving on the Audit The goals to which we held ourselves Committee. As Chairman and CEO of accountable at the time of our IPO in 2008 Ernst & Young Mexico from 2001 until have changed only insomuch as some his retirement in 2013, Mr Tiburcio brings targets have already been met, notably with him extensive experience as statutory our gold production as a result of the auditor and advisor to many prestigious acquisition of 44% of Penmont and Mexican companies. continued improvements at Herradura. 10 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Dedicated to Meeting Our Commitments Advancing towards our 2018 production goals Having already surpassed our gold production targets, we must ensure that our silver mines deliver as planned in the coming years: successfully turning around performance at Fresnillo with accelerated development rates and plant optimisation; increasing the rate of development to sustain capacity utilisation at Saucito; and delivering the second phase of San Julián. We also seek to replenish reserves and improve productivity at each of our mines. See pages 58-67 935.5 761.7 Total Production – Gold (koz) and Silver (moz) 687.5 610.9 595.9 50.3 47.0 45.0 42.9 41.1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Gold production Silver production FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Beneficiation plant at Saucito 12 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Dedicated to Meeting Our Commitments Disciplined growth through exploration and development Silver – total attributable resources 2,171.5 moz (2016) By investing continuously across price cycles, we have a rich pipeline 1,970.7 moz (2015) of growth projects and exploration prospects that meet stringent criteria on quality and cost. Exploration efforts have yielded record silver and gold resources and replenished most reserves, and we are focused on key project delivery dates in the coming year. In 2017, we will commission the second and final phase of the San Julián silver-gold project, a cornerstone of our 2018 production goals. Gold – total attributable See pages 68-75 resources 38.4 moz (2016) 35.5 moz (2015) FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Leaching pads at Noche Buena 14 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Dedicated to Meeting Our Commitments Safety and support of the workforce The sustainability of our Company relies first and foremost on our people: their safety, health and wellbeing, personal and professional growth, and workplace satisfaction. We recognise that we fell short of our own expectations and the needs of our people in 2016, with an unacceptable fatality rate. Our management systems and organisational effectiveness programmes are increasingly centred on personnel safety, with zero tolerance for violations. As a result, our local sustainability investments in peso terms will continue to rise. See pages 76-99 Social & Environment Investment (US$ million) 4.36 4.26 3.56 3.20 2.65 2.21 2.59 2.09 1.90 2014 2015 2016 Investment in safety Investment in the environment Investment in the community FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Conveyor belt at San Julián 16 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Executive’s Letter Optimising performance I am pleased to report a solid There were challenges and setbacks, performance in 2016, with a to be sure – three fatalities, which we see as unacceptable, slower than expected rise in production, delivery of the first phase of a key growth By design our turnaround at our flagship Fresnillo mine and technical issues and construction project, expansion of our resource base and a maturing mines are set delays at San Julián – but also remarkable improvements in capacity utilisation, sustainability framework. to yield returns notably at Saucito and Herradura, and cash costs across the organisation. across the price This comes in the context of volatile but improved metal prices that boosted cycle with all-in revenues, profits and our cash position. sustaining costs My enthusiasm for improved market conditions is somewhat tempered by that are amongst their current unpredictability. In years past, precious metals prices were generally driven upward by supply constraints, the lowest in the geopolitical tensions and investors seeking safe havens. Over the course of 2016, these industry. fundamentals may not have impacted pricing the way we have come to expect, confounding both industry analysts and market experts. However, at Fresnillo, we have always believed that strategy and execution are the true drivers of value creation. We look to operational excellence, targeted investment, disciplined cash management and sustainable business practices as the benchmark of success. In that regard, I remain confident that we are on the right path to meeting our commitments to profitability and sustainability across precious metal price cycles. To support this, we are undertaking a comprehensive review of the role technology and innovation play in managing the internal variables under our control, and the extent to which our systems and data are secure. I am leading the IT Governance Committee through a digital transformation: everything from personnel management and predictive maintenance, to mine ventilation, simulator training and reactant consumption. We have implemented a number of new systems already and will continue to monitor their effectiveness in delivering results and driving our competitive advantage, while bolstering our cybersecurity protocols. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 17 Operating performance Following Board approval of project IT Strategy FRESNILLO TODAY We produced a record 50.3 moz of silver resumption, we completed engineering in 2016 (including Silverstream), 7.1% over for the new Pyrites plant, placed initial • Ensure the security, continuity and 2015 and within our range of 49-51 moz. equipment orders and began construction. confidentiality of our networks, This was primarily due to the start-up of This US$155 million project will increase systems and data. San Julián, higher ore grades at Fresnillo silver and gold recovery rates by • Optimise execution to reduce and Ciénega and, to a lesser extent, higher processing tailings, both historical and costs, increase productivity production from Silverstream. ongoing, from the Fresnillo and Saucito and throughput, and improve mines, generating an expected 3.5 moz safety metrics. While we met our silver production silver and 13 koz gold per year. The first • Transform processes with disruptive targets, I am disappointed that the Fresnillo phase leaching plant is expected to come technologies that will evolve the mine fell short of its turnaround objectives. on line in 1Q 2018, and the tailings flotation business model. Our aim was to stabilise the rate of facility by year end 2018. development at 4,500 metres per month • Support decision making with STRATEGIC REPORT in order to maintain throughput at levels The Centauro Extension project at big data analytics and automatic that would offset the natural and expected Herradura, encompassing a second line generation of insights. decline in ore grade. However, due to a lack to the dynamic leaching plant, has also See pages 56-57 of equipment availability and a shortage been approved. Progress in the year of skilled personnel, we were unable to included detailed engineering, advancing prepare sufficient infrastructure to sustain the foundations of the milling area that rate of development, which put and placement of orders for various pressure on volumes. The Fresnillo mine components. The US$110 million project produced 15.9 moz silver in 2016, 1.6% is expected to extend the life of the mine higher than in 2015, against our target with average gold production of 390 koz of a double-digit increase. We have per year. already made improvements but are looking to make additional progress Investment in exploration totalled US$137.9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in 2017 to deliver our targets. million, mainly focused on areas of influence at current operating mines and Gold production reached a record level, key exploration sites. Good results were increasing 22.8% over 2015 to 935.5 koz, achieved at Fresnillo, Saucito, San Julián, against our revised guidance of 850-870 Pilarica and Guanajuato. koz. This was the result of the reductions of inventories from the leaching pads at Resources and reserves reflect the Herradura, the start-up of phase I at San following price assumptions: silver at Julián and a higher speed of recovery at US$17.50 per oz (2015: US$15.00), gold Noche Buena, which partially offset the in underground mines at US$1,250.00 per expected lower ore grade and ore oz (2015: US$1,150.00), and gold in open processed at Ciénega. pit resources at US$1,400.00 per oz (2015: US$1,300.00). Our high quality asset base FINANCIAL STATEMENTS By-product lead production increased remains healthy. Gold and silver resources 13.5% on 2015, to 48,144 tonnes, mainly increased by 8.2% and 10.2% respectively, as a result of higher ore grades at Fresnillo whilst gold reserves remained unchanged and Ciénega. Similarly, by-product zinc and silver reserves decreased 3.2%. (Refer production increased 23.5% to 56,845 to Exploration pages 71-75) tonnes due to higher ore grades and Top: Development at Las Casas, Ciénega District recovery rates at Fresnillo and Ciénega and A commitment to sustainable business Bottom: Water treatment Plant in the Fresnillo District increased ore throughput and recovery practices rate at Saucito. Robust sustainability practices not only underpin our licence to operate, they also Construction of phase I of the San Julián lower operating risk and ensure alignment mine was completed at a slight delay due with stakeholders. To coincide with our to the need of the contractor to do some HSECR framework reaching maturity this initial rectification. The milling facility and year, we conducted our first materiality leaching plant were commissioned in the assessment to gauge the effectiveness of summer, and the plant exceeded design our sustainability strategy and the quality capacity in the final quarter of the year, of our reporting, the results of which are contributing 2.1 moz to the Group’s total set out on page 77. silver production and enhancing our productivity metrics. Start-up of the phase continued on page 18 II flotation plant has been delayed from year end 2016 to 2Q 2017 due to unusually high rainfall, contractor turnover and delays in the delivery of certain equipment that affected the pace of construction. 18 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Executive’s Letter continued These factors more than compensated Outlook 2017 Key commitments for 2017 for the additional production costs arising By design, our mines are set to yield from the increased ore throughput at returns across the price cycle, with all-in Strengthen our safety performance Herradura and Saucito. However, cost sustaining costs that are amongst the with zero tolerance for nonof sales increased by 1.2% over 2015 lowest in the industry, giving us financial compliance, and increased mainly due to the decrease in inventories and operating flexibility in a range of investment and support for at Herradura following the increased market conditions. We aim to produce training and oversight. processing capacity achieved with the 58–61 moz of silver, including 4 moz from commissioning of the second Merrill the Silverstream, and 870–900 koz of gold Improve and optimise performance Crowe plant, as well as higher depreciation. in 2017, reflecting no further production at the Fresnillo mine by developing benefit from the reduction of inventories infrastructure at the lower levels The increase in revenues more than offset at Herradura. sufficient to increase the the higher cost of sales, resulting in a development rate to 4,800 metres 103.7% increase in gross profit to US$882.1 Given the uncertainty of forecasting per month by year end; commence million. Gross margin was 46.3% compared precious metals prices in the current work on plant optimisation; and to 30.0% in the previous year. The higher environment, we continue to take a continue the deepening of the San gross profit and lower administrative and cautious approach and investment Carlos shaft and expansion of the exploration expenses resulted in an 88.5% decisions will be evaluated on a project-bytailings dam. increase in EBITDA, with an expansion project basis against key criteria; US$800 in the margin from 37.9% in 2015 to 54.2% million has been budgeted for capital Commission the second phase of in 2016. expenditures in 2017, to be allocated San Julián on time and on budget primarily to San Julián, the Pyrites plant, in 2Q 2017, including installing Profit from continuing operations the second line of the DLP and, pending vibrating screens at the leaching before income tax increased by 238.2% approval, initial construction at Juanicipio, plant to achieve an average to US$718.2 million. Income tax expense as well as sustaining capex at current of 4,000 tpd milling capacity. increased 101.4% to US$259.9 million as operations including the Fresnillo Furthermore, we will deploy a result of higher profits, with an effective expansion. A further US$160 million efficiency teams to reduce costs, tax rate of 36.2% excluding the special has been budgeted for exploration, with a focus on drilling methods, mining right (2015: 60.7%), and 40.8% including capitalised expenses. and identify additional long-term including the effects of the special mining sources of water for industrial use. right (2015: 67.3%). Net profit for the period The Centauro Deep and Ciénega See pages 28-29 was US$425.0 million, a 512.4% increase expansion projects are still under over 2015. exploration prior to Board evaluation, while every effort will be made to improve and The 20.1% devaluation of the Mexican peso enhance project metrics for longer-term against the US dollar as of 31 December growth prospects such as Orisyvo. We fell short of our safety targets this year, resulted in non-cash charges to the income with three fatal injuries in 2016 and one statement and affected the monetary Our strategic goals are unchanged: to at the beginning of 2017. We have taken position and value of certain assets and profitably and sustainably maintain the a number of steps to strengthen our safety liabilities, resulting in a higher deferred Group’s position as the world’s largest culture, including the implementation of tax charge. primary silver company and a leading gold a new Safety Information System. Our producer in Mexico. Our high quality, low decision to terminate a Company contractor Cash flow generated by operations, before cost assets, extensive growth pipeline and this year reflects the prioritisation of safety changes in working capital, increased by balance sheet strength leave us well placed above all other operational considerations, 90.5% to US$1,023.3 million as a result of to deliver on our 2018 production and notwithstanding the shortage of contractors higher profits. Capital expenditure totalled reserves targets. More immediately, we are in certain districts as well as the short-term US$434.1 million, a decrease of 8.6% over focused on meeting our commitments to impact on production. 2015; key investments in the year included improve and optimise performance at the construction at the San Julián project, Fresnillo mine, commission the second However, we made important advances in stripping activities and the construction phase of San Julián on time and on budget, other metrics of sustainability in the areas of the leaching pads at Herradura, and and strengthen our safety performance. of health, environment and community development at Fresnillo, Ciénega and relations. These include chronic illnesses Saucito. Other uses of funds in the year I am grateful for the continued confidence and water utilisation rates. were income tax and profit sharing paid placed in us by our people, communities, of US$114.8 million and dividends paid of suppliers, clients and shareholders, and Financial results US$88.2 million. We closed the year net look forward to another year together. Our average realised gold and silver prices cash flow positive. rose by 10.7% and 10.3%, respectively. As a Octavio Alvídrez result, adjusted revenues totalled US$2,045 The Group maintained a strong balance Chief Executive Officer million, 29.2% above the previous year. sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totalled US$912.0 million, an Adjusted production costs 1 decreased by 82.3% increase over 2015; debt remained at 2.5%, mainly explained by the favourable US$800.0 million as at 31 December 2016. effect of the 17.7% average devaluation of the Mexican peso vs. the US dollar during A detailed review of our performance is set 2016, lower energy prices and the positive out in the Financial Review. impact of our cost reduction initiatives. 1. Adjusted production costs is calculated as total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing and the effects of exchange rate hedging. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 19 Investment Case Our key competitive advantages Strong balance sheet FRESNILLO TODAY position us to meet near-term Operational flexibility, investment across commitments and drive longprice cycles, shareholder returns term value. With a healthy cash position and low leverage ratio, we can invest in profitable growth and optimise operations, while delivering solid returns to shareholders. In 2016, capital expenditures totalled US$434.1 million, exploration US$121.2 million and we paid out US$88.2 million in dividends. High quality assets Long-term visibility, long life returns STRATEGIC REPORT We are amongst the largest concession holders in mineral-rich Mexico, holding approximately 1.8 million hectares of surface land, with a district consolidation strategy that allows us to leverage local knowledge and shared infrastructure. Our portfolio of low cost gold and silver mines, high potential development projects and advanced exploration prospects contain over 2,171.5 moz of attributable silver resources and 38.4 moz of attributable gold resources. Low cost and flexible operations CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Healthy margins, adaptability across price cycles Our high quality assets allow us to extract mineral profitably across metal price cycles. Furthermore, we are able to tailor mine plans, leverage technology and share personnel, expertise and plant capacity within our districts to maximise the potential of each operation. A focus on continuous improvement in productivity, efficiency and consumption of operating materials and energy combined with favourable exchange rates, helped reduce cost per tonne across all our mines in 2016. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Disciplined approach to development Long-term profitable growth Every development project must meet stringent viability criteria, including rates of return and high environmental and social impact standards. Delivery timelines and budgets are calibrated to advance us towards production targets whilst adjusting for market conditions, with engineering and construction conducted by in-house teams. We are on track to deliver phase II of the San Julián mine in 2017 and the new pyrites plant in 2018. Sustainable business practices Environmental stewardship, social licence to operate, ethical culture To drive value for all our stakeholders and ensure operational continuity, we must understand and respect the needs of local communities; prioritise local goods, services and employees for our operations; ensure the safety and health of our people; and minimise our environmental footprint. We invested over US$21.1 million in our HSECR initiatives in 2016, Dynamic Leaching Plant at Herradura 10.7% higher than in 2015. 20 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Market Overview Our strategy arises from the context of the silver and gold mining industry and the business environment in Mexico. As a major silver and gold mining 2016 2015 2014 company, we are exposed to the market Peer group: primary silver producers production in moz dynamics common to the global precious metals industry, while our people and Fresnillo plc 50 47 45 operations, virtually all located in Mexico, Polymetal International plc 29 32 29 are exposed to country-specific factors that affect our operations. Hochschild Mining plc 17 15 16 Hecla Mining Company 17 12 11 The precious metals market Coeur Mining, Inc. 15 16 17 Our top-line performance and that of our peers is driven by precious metals Silver Standard Resources Inc. 10 10 9 prices, which reflect traditional supply Silver Corp Metals Inc. 6 4 5 and demand dynamics that arise from the industry’s production capacity in relation 2016 2015 2014 to consumption, which in turn is driven by market sentiment. However, market Peer group: global silver producers (by-product & primary) production in moz sentiment has become significantly less Fresnillo plc 50 47 45 predictable in response to geopolitical KGHM Polska Miedz S.A. 38 41 40 and macroeconomic variables in recent years, and rather notably so in 2016. Goldcorp Inc. 28 40 37 Pan American Silver Corp. 25 26 26 The two key political developments in 2016 with potential to impact our South32 Limited 21 22 N/A Group were the UK’s decision to exit BHP Billiton 13 11 34 the European Union, and the election of Donald Trump as president of the In gold, our peer group are medium-sized global gold miners with similar levels US, both of which resulted in strong, of annual production. albeit dissimilar, reactions by equity markets and currency exchange rates. 2016 2015 2014 We do not believe that Brexit will have Peer group: medium-size gold producers production in koz a direct material impact on the Group, given that our operations are in Mexico. Agnico Eagle Mines Limited 1,663 1,671 1,429 The effect of the new US administration, Randgold Resources Limited 1,253 1,211 1,147 while still difficult to predict until political, economic and trade policies are fully Fresnillo plc 935 762 596 implemented, has thus far only affected Polymetal International plc 890 861 945 us in terms of the reduction of the value OceanaGold Corporation 417 419 307 of the peso in relation to the US dollar. Petropavlovsk plc 416 504 625 Fresnillo plc does not take a position Coeur Mining Inc. 358 328 249 on where prices, demand or market sentiment are headed; however, we do Hochschild Mining plc 246 166 101 monitor price movements and market dynamics, and take into consideration industry research and forecasts in order to support our financial projections and cash management strategies. We use analyst consensus as the base case scenario for our internal projections, and conduct sensitivity analyses with floor and ceiling prices of between 10-20% above and below those consensus figures. As a result, metals prices will continue to influence budget considerations in areas such as exploration and the timing of certain capital expenditures. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 21 FRESNILLO TODAY Market size and position Key trends shaping the precious Mexico: Country challenges specific In silver, our peer group are other primary metals industry to Fresnillo plc silver miners although much of the global Our industry faces a number of underlying Securing land access and ownership. silver production is derived as a by-product trends that impact competitiveness and Mining concessions in Mexico provide of gold, lead, zinc and copper mines. We viability. As many of these coincide with rights to the mineral resources in the have long been the top global producer of our key risks, more detailed information subsoil, not the surface land, thus silver, both by-product and primary, and regarding the specific implications for concession holders must negotiate private STRATEGIC REPORT aim to maintain our leadership position Fresnillo plc and our response and agreements with landowners. Inconsistent amongst global producers. mitigation efforts can be found on pages registration and enforcement of inherited 42-55. ownership rights for communal land has Benchmarking our performance led to renegotiation of land agreements in in the industry Capital remains constrained. Although some cases, and to demands for increased To assess our competitiveness within prices for many metals improved in 2016, rent for land, water and occupancy rights. our peer groups, we look primarily at the the cumulative effect of years of depressed following two factors, neither of which prices has put pressure on profits and Continued insecurity. Some regions of the are influenced by market dynamics: balance sheets in recent years. Process country, particularly in the states of Baja improvements, innovation, better resource California, Durango, Sinaloa, Guerrero, Average cash cost per metal: We track utilisation and lower energy costs have Chihuahua, Michoacán, Tamaulipas and all-in sustaining costs (AISC) in accordance helped cut costs and improve productivity, Nuevo León, face unacceptably high rates with the guidelines issued by the World but many miners remain vulnerable of violent crime, primarily due to drug CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Gold Council, as a means to monitor in the current environment and have cartel activity. Despite the escalation of current production costs and preparations insufficient cash reserves to sustain capital military engagement and law enforcement, for future production; however, we requirements and investments in growth. security remains a critical issue. also continue to use the traditional Traditional sources of external financing, cash cost 1 metric as we believe it is more including equity markets and institutional Corruption. Mexico is ranked the representative of the production costs lenders, are seeking higher returns and 123rd of 176 countries on Transparency incurred during the period, eliminating premiums for their capital, even when International’s 2016 Corruption Perceptions distortions caused by non-recurring allocated to high quality mining companies. Index 2, a composite index drawing on sustaining costs. Our strategic objective corruption-related data from experts and is to remain in the lowest quartile of the Metal supply is limited, and ore grades are business. Bribery is seen to be widespread cost curves, which we achieved at most declining. No new major deposits have in the country’s judiciary and police, and in of our mines in 2016. See pages 58-67. been identified in recent years, thus business registration processes, including mine lives will be reduced if volumes getting construction permits and licenses. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Quality and quantity of our mineral assets: are sustained at current operations. Collusion between the police, judges and Cash costs provide a picture of a Miners will increasingly rely on lower criminal groups stems from complex company’s current ability to extract grade deposits or those with more complex jurisdictions and cartel pressure, which its resources at a reasonable cost, but metallurgy, while the search for new contributes to the security problem long-term competitiveness is dependent deposits may take more time, be in less and results in impunity and weak law on the actual size of the resource base. hospitable and secure areas, and lack the enforcement. While attempted bribery, A strong indicator of future production is economies of scale that bigger and richer extortion, abuse of office, bribery of the ability to convert measured, indicated deposits would allow. Taken together, foreign public officials and facilitation are and inferred resources into proven and exploration and exploitation will require criminalised under the Federal Penal Code probable reserves. significantly more capital at a time when (Código Penal Federal), anti-corruption the industry is facing the aforementioned laws are almost never enforced. See page We continuously invest in exploration capital constraints. 78 for the Fresnillo plc policy on Antiacross price cycles to expand and Bribery. strengthen our asset base; as a result, Environmental and social costs of our total resources and reserves have maintaining mining operations have grown steadily since our IPO, and we have increased, and anti-mining activism a range of organic growth projects that continues to rise. Resource nationalism extend across the prospecting, drilling in many mining jurisdictions has affected and resource definition stages. See pages regulation and taxation, while pressure 71-75. from non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and communities, both organised and ad hoc, have led to work stoppages, project closures, and increased pressure for more tangible community benefits and shared value creation mechanisms. 1. We define cash cost as the total cash cost (cost of sales plus treatment and refining charges, less depreciation), less revenues from by-products, divided by ounces of silver or gold sold. 2. Published on 25 January 2017. 22 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Business Model and Strategy We seek to create sustained value for stakeholders across precious metal cycles, focusing on high potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world-class mines. Business model Gold and silver mining is the heart of our business model. We generate revenue by selling the metals contained in the ore we extract and process. We ensure the longevity of our business by creating and growing sustained and shared value for all stakeholders. 1  Operate Maximise  the potential of existing operations while maintaining our position as a leading low 1 cost producer Operate Assets 2 Develop  Deliver profitable growth by advancing 2 new projects towards commissioning, Develop while optimising cash flow and returns Projects 3 Explore 3 Explore Ensure business continuity and growth Prospects by replenishing depleted reserves and maintaining a robust growth pipeline Sustainability 4 4  Uphold our licence to operate Sustainability Licence to operate Strategic resources Financial strength Experienced Strategic and relationships and control management and Technology relationships Safeguard, deploy and invest skilled personnel in our strategic resources, and nurture and strengthen Risk Management Framework our strategic relationships Risk management framework Embed a culture of risk awareness through an effective risk governance structure Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 23 Precious metal value chain Our value creation strategy is intrinsically FRESNILLO TODAY linked to the business model Fresnillo plc Exploration Development Mineral Smelting Brokers Buyers for mineral & construction extraction & & refining resources of new mines beneficiation STRATEGIC REPORT Value creation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Job creation Infrastructure Payment for Treatment and Dividends Tax revenue Knowledge goods and refining Wages and Education/ services charges Capital gains GDP Increased benefits healthcare contribution influence Support for Profit sharing Arts/athletics local economy Professional Conservation development Quality of life Strategic relationships See pages 26-27 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employees Communities Suppliers Customers Shareholders Government Membership and Partners organisations Productivity Access Quality Timely intake Capital Concessions Best practices and payment Commitment Trust Fair prices Permits Increased Flexibility influence Respect Technical Access to support capital markets Stakeholder support 24 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Business Model and Strategy continued Business Model Components 1. Operate 2. Develop The extraction and beneficiation of ore from our operating mines. The development and construction of new operating mines and facilities. Strategic focus: Maximise the potential of existing operations. Strategic focus: Deliver growth through development projects. Priorities: Optimise capacity and recovery rates by Priorities: Adhere to strict delivery timelines and adjusting mining methods and beneficiation capex budgets. processes; generate continuous improvements in productivity and cost controls; leverage expansion opportunities. KPIs: Production by metal, cost per tonne by mine, KPIs: Project delivery against budget/timeline. productivity by mine (ore milled or moved per person). Competitive Competitive cost performance amongst our Competitive Stringent viability criteria, including rates advantages: industry peers, with AISC on a life of mine advantages: of return and high environmental and social basis significantly lower than current and impact standards; synergy potential amongst projected market prices for gold and silver. our prospects and projects arising from our district consolidation strategy, that can reduce total capex requirements; in-house teams for engineering and construction. Key assets Key assets Asset Type Main Metal Year In progress: San Julián Fresnillo district Underground mine in the Annual production expected to Fresnillo Underground Silver primary 1554 prospective San Julián district. be 11.6 moz silver and 63.7 koz Saucito Underground Silver primary 2011 Phase I commissioned in 3Q16; gold in 2017. Phase II expected 2Q17. Ciénega district Ciénega Underground Gold/Silver 1992 Pyrites treatment plant San Ramón Underground Gold/Silver 2012 Facility to process historical and Annual production expected (Ciénega satellite) ongoing tailings from Fresnillo to average 3.5 moz silver and and Saucito mines to increase 13,000 koz gold. Herradura district metal recovery rates. Herradura Open pit Gold 1997 Soledad-Dipolos 1 Open pit Gold 2010 Centauro extension Noche Buena Open pit Gold 2012 Natural evolution of the pit. Life of mine at Herradura will Project encompassing a be extended to 12 years with 1. Operations at Soledad-Dipolos are currently suspended. second line to the dynamic an average annual production leaching plant. of 390 koz. Key risks: Key risks: • Impact of global macroeconomic developments • Impact of global macroeconomic developments • Access to land • Access to land • Potential actions by the government • Potential actions by the government • Security • Security • Public perception against mining • Public perception against mining • Union relations • Projects (performance risk) • Human Resources • Union relations • Safety • Human Resources See pages 58-67 for a detailed review See pages 68-70 for a detailed review of our mining operations. of our development projects. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 25 3. Explore 4. Sustainable development FRESNILLO TODAY The search for ore deposits that expand our resource base and The responsible operation of our business. replenish reserves. Strategic focus: Extend the growth pipeline. Strategic focus: Advance and enhance the sustainability of our business, today and for future generations. Priorities: Allocate funding across metal price cycles; Priorities: Eliminate unsafe workplace conditions advance prospects and projects along the and behaviours; improve and maintain exploration pipeline, from early stage to the health of our people; minimise the drilling to advanced, as strict criteria are environmental impact of our activities; met; convert resources to reserves. engage with and support the development STRATEGIC REPORT of our communities; secure the talent pipeline and ensure a fair and ethical workplace. KPIs: Total attributable resources by metal. KPIs: Fatalities and injuries, emissions, water, community investment. Competitive One of the largest concession holders in Competitive Deep understanding of home market advantages: Mexico; prospects must have a minimum advantages: culture and communities, enabling us potential of 100 moz of silver or 2 moz of to meet best practices domestically gold equivalent to advance; strict criteria and in line with international standards. on ore grades, metallurgical recoveries and environmental impact. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key assets Key pillars Asset Main Metal Fresnillo district Health Safety Juanicipio Silver Ciénega district Environment Community relations Las Casas, Cebollitas Cluster Silver and gold Herradura district People Centauro Deep Gold FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chihuahua (greenfield) Orisyvo Gold Other early stage projects and prospects, Mexico and Peru Key risks: Key risks: • Impact of global macroeconomic developments • Potential actions by the government • Access to land • Security • Potential actions by the government • Public perception against mining • Security • Safety • Public perception against mining • Environmental incidents • Exploration • Human Resources • Human Resources • Access to land See pages 71-75 for a detailed review See pages 76-99 for a detailed review of our exploration pipeline. of our sustainability practices and performance. 26 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Business Model and Strategy continued Risk management Financial strength and control: Maintain strict control of cash, assets, Customers: Partner with refiners and smelters who framework costs and expenses to maintain a solid balance sheet and competitive position help maximise our revenue stream. All the primary products originating from Group The identification and mitigation of risks as a low cost producer; ensure sufficient mines in 2016 were sold to the Met-Mex that could affect the Company’s ability resources to finance growth and Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. refining and smelting to execute its strategy and deliver on its guarantee operational continuity; facility in Torreón, Coahuila (Mexico) commitments. deliver shareholder returns. under a series of supply agreements set on an arm’s length basis and in line with Strategic focus: international benchmarks. The relationship Embed a culture of risk awareness with an effective risk governance structure. Strategic allows us to benefit from relatively low transport costs associated with relationships our proximity to Met-Mex operations. The Group has sold to other refiners Priorities: Identify, assess, prioritise, mitigate and and smelters in the past and may do The key stakeholders for and with whom monitor risk at all levels of the organisation. so in the future if conditions warrant. we create shared value. Competitive advantages: Shareholders and note holders: Strategic focus: Conservative approach towards risk Balance returns with investment in Nurture and strengthen our strategic and comprehensive risk management long-term growth. Peñoles holds 75% relationships. measures, support long-term value of the issued share capital of Fresnillo creation strategy. plc and has been the principal investor Workforce, both contracted and in Group assets for over 50 years, as well See pages 42-53 for a detailed review unionised: as a significant supplier to and customer of our risk management programme. Provide a safe, equitable, fair and ethical of the Company, as described above. work environment. The remaining 25% of Fresnillo plc shares See pages 91-94 trade on the London and Mexican Stock Strategic resources Communities: Exchanges, and bondholders own US$800 million of Senior Secured Notes due 2023. Invest directly and through partnerships The Group maintains a regular dialogue The key inputs required to sustain our in quality of life initiatives, with a focus on with its independent investors and note value creation model. environment, education, health and social holders as described in the Corporate integration, entrepreneurship and social Governance Report. Strategic focus: infrastructure. Safeguard, deploy and invest in See pages 124-125 our strategic non-mineral resources See pages 95-99 (human, technological, financial). Partners: Suppliers: Enter into and execute mutually beneficial Experienced management and skilled Negotiate long-term purchase business agreements. This includes the personnel: agreements to secure better pricing Group’s 56% interest in Minera Juanicipio Select, recruit, train, develop, compensate and ensure timely availability of key S.A. de C.V., with MAG Silver Corporation and retain personnel with the requisite equipment, materials and services. holding 44%; the agreement was entered knowledge and experience to execute A key supplier is Servicios Administrativos into for the development of the Juanicipio our strategy. Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. (SAPSA), a subsidiary concession. We also partner with a number of the Company’s controlling shareholder, of junior exploration companies to conduct Technology: Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. early stage prospecting. Deploy systems and methods that (Peñoles), which is contracted to supply support exploration efforts, increase administrative services. The relationship is productivity, reinforce sustainability, regulated by a Services Agreement (NSA, enhance accountability and support or New Services Agreement), ensuring decision-making and financial planning that all services are delivered at arm’s processes. Ensure the Group’s networks, length and on normal commercial terms systems and data are secured in as per the Relationship Agreement accordance with best practices. with Peñoles. See pages 56-57 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 27 Authorities and regulators: FRESNILLO TODAY In Mexico and Latin America, secure mining concessions and adhere to the laws and regulations governing natural resources and mining companies; in Mexico and the United Kingdom, adhere to issuer requirements of the Mexico and London stock exchanges, as well as financial and regulatory oversight from securities regulators. Membership organisations: Collaborate with peers to advocate for and advance initiatives that support STRATEGIC REPORT shared strategic objectives. We belong to a number of industry and trade groups: CAMIMEX, the Mexican Mining Chamber, which promotes sector agreements, advocates industry positions, and sets benchmarks for the mining sector; CESPEDES (Sustainable Development Studies Commission for the Mexican Private Sector, part of the Mexican Business Coordinating Council, or CCE), which coordinates the private sector stance on key issues such as the transition towards a green economy and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE greenhouse gas mitigation efforts in the country; and the Mining Cluster for the State of Zacatecas, through which mining industry participants in Zacatecas state promote the development of economic, social and environmental best practices across the supply chain. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Beneficiation plants at San Julián 28 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 2016 Performance and 2017 Targets Fresnillo has a robust strategy to meet its corporate goals and capture the significant growth opportunities in the global precious metals industry. Maximise the potential Deliver growth through of existing operations development projects Optimise capacity and recovery rates; generate continuous Adhere to strict delivery timelines and capex budgets. improvements in productivity and cost controls; leverage expansion opportunities. What we said we would do in 2016 What we said we would do in 2016 • Fresnillo mine: Stabilise the rate of development at 4,500 • San Julián: Commission leaching plant to process ore from metres per month, improve ore grade and production levels; the veins (phase I) in 2Q 2016, flotation plant to process advance engineering on the capacity optimisation project. ore from the disseminated ore body (phase II) in 4Q 2016. • Produce 49-51 moz of silver, 775-790 koz of gold. • Pyrites plant: Complete engineering; equipment orders • Increase efficiency and control costs. and construction on hold as per contingency plan. What we did in 2016 What we did in 2016 • Development rate peaked at 4,520 metres per month at the • Phase I of San Julián commissioned with slight delay; milling Fresnillo mine but averaged 3,929 metres per month on an capacity operating at 20% above nominal capacity. Phase II annualised basis. delayed until 2Q 2017. Ore grade and production both improved while detailed • Completed detailed engineering works for the Pyrites plant, engineering on the plant optimisation continued. obtained environmental permits, commenced preparation • Produced 50.3 moz of silver hitting our target and exceeding of the site and placed orders for major equipment. our gold target by 22.8% producing 935.5 koz. • Cash costs and cost per tonne all reduced at every operating mine in the Group. Our commitments and targets for 2017 Our commitments and targets for 2017 • Produce between 58-61 moz of silver, 870-900 koz of gold. • San Julián: Commission flotation plant to process ore from the • Fresnillo mine: Increase development rates to 4,800 metres per disseminated body (phase II) in 2Q 2017. month by year end, with an expected 7-10% increase in silver • Pyrites plant: Complete construction of leaching plant, advance production, while commencing work for the optimisation plant. tailings flotation plant towards 1H 2018 completion. • Continue construction of the second line to the dynamic leaching plant at Herradura, expected to be commissioned in 2018. For more on our performance For more on our performance See pages 30-33 See pages 34-35 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 29 FRESNILLO TODAY Extend the Advance and enhance the STRATEGIC REPORT growth pipeline sustainability of our operations Allocate funding across metal price cycles; advance Prioritise workplace safety and health; minimise our prospects along the exploration pipeline, as strict environmental impact; engage with and develop our criteria are met; convert resources to reserves. communities; secure the talent pipeline; ensure a fair and ethical workplace. What we said we would do in 2016 What we said we would do in 2016 • Deploy US$135-140 million in exploration investment. • Continue to strive for zero fatalities, continuous improvement CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Ongoing exploration to convert resources into reserves in safety. at mines and at key projects. • Conclude advancement of HSECR system towards its 2016 targets. What we did in 2016 What we did in 2016 • Invested US$137.9 million in exploration. • Fell short of target with three contractor fatalities. • Exploration programme focused on increasing resources • We achieved 100% maturity in our HSECR system. at some sites. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our commitments and targets for 2017 Our commitments and targets for 2017 • Deploy US$160 million in exploration investment. • Continuous improvement in safety. • Intensify exploration to convert resources into reserves. • Implement the second phase of our ethics and integrity project to embed ethics in our organisational culture. For more on our performance For more on our performance See pages 36-37 See pages 38-39 30 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Key Performance Indicators 1 Operate Our performance in the year Silver and gold production both increased in the year; silver, with the start-up of San Julián, and higher ore grades at Fresnillo and Ciénega, and gold mainly as a result of the reduction in inventories from the leaching pads at Herradura. The devaluation of the Mexican peso, combined with our continued focus on efficiency and controlling costs, led to lower cost per tonne at every mine. See pages 58-67 Silver production 50.3 moz Gold production 935.5 koz Vibrating screens at Saucito Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 31 FRESNILLO TODAY 1 STRATEGIC REPORT 2016 objectives 2016 performance 2017 objectives Optimise capacity and recovery rates CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Fresnillo: further increase • Development rate peaked above • Develop infrastructure at the lower average development rate 4,500 metres per month but averaged levels of the mine sufficient to increase to 4,500 metres per month. 3,929 metres per month over the year. the development rate to 4,800 metres per month. • Increase milling capacity of the DLP further at San Julián to 4,000 tpd. Leverage expansion opportunities • Ciénega: continue exploration at areas • Continued exploration at Rosario and • Continue evaluation of the expansion of of influence and evaluate optimal Las Casas, and began at the Taspana milling capacity at the Ciénega District. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS configuration of additional capacity. and Tajos veins. • Herradura: Evaluate construction • Obtained board approval and began • Continue construction of the second of second milling line at the DLP. construction of the second line at line at the DLP. the DLP. • Resumed construction of the Pyrites • Continue construction of the plant following Board approval. Pyrites plant. Increase efficiency and control costs • Seek continuous cost improvements • Costs at all operating mines lowered with • Ongoing. through dedicated work teams at each milling efficiencies seen at Saucito and business unit. San Julián. Replenish and increase reserves • Ongoing. • Replenished gold reserves, silver reserves • Ongoing. declined. For more on our performance See pages 58-67 32 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Key Performance Indicators 1 Operate KPIs Production Silver production Gold production Millions of ounces Thousands of ounces 50.3 935.5 Sum of ounces produced, plus ounces accrued through the Silverstream Contract. This indicator monitors total production levels at our 50.3 mines and contributions from 45.0 47.0 41.1 42.9 935.5 advanced development projects. 45.7 761.7 40.4 43.0 37.1 39.0 687.5 610.9 595.9 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Graph illustrates silver production from our own mines, Increased gold production due to the reduction with the shaded portion representing additional ounces of inventories from the leaching pads at Herradura, accrued under the Silverstream Contract. contribution from San Julián and higher speeds of recovery at Noche Buena. Increased silver production due to the start-up of San Julián and higher silver grades at Ciénega and Fresnillo. Cost per tonne Fresnillo Saucito US$/tonne milled US$/tonne milled 43.9 36.8 Adjusted production costs (total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing and exchange rate hedging effects) divided by total volume of tonnes processed. 48.2 45.6 47.3 This monitors variations of 44.5 43.9 60.9 61.0 59.1 costs directly related to the production process; the analysis 42.5 36.8 of such variations improves management’s decision-making. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Decrease in cost per tonne due to the favourable effect of Decrease in cost per tonne due to the favourable effect the devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar exchange of the exchange rate, economies of scale from higher rate and lower diesel and electricity prices partly offset throughput and lower unit energy prices. by higher contractor costs to accelerate development. Ciénega Herradura Noche Buena US$/tonne milled US$/tonne deposited US$/tonne deposited 55.5 7.7 7.5 77.1 10.0 70.8 70.8 9.3 8.4 8.7 63.0 7.7 7.8 7.9 7.5 55.5 6.6 6.2 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Decrease in cost per tonne as a result of foreign Decrease in cost per tonne due to the positive effect Decrease in cost per tonne as a result of foreign exchange benefits, lower unit energy prices and of the exchange rate, lower unit prices of operating exchange benefits, and lower unit prices of operating efficiencies achieved. materials and efficiencies achieved. materials and diesel. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 33 Proven and probable reserves Silver reserves Gold reserves FRESNILLO TODAY Millions of ounces Millions of ounces 530.3 9.5 A measure of the quality of the Group’s operating assets and our ability to extend the life of operating mines at profitable levels. Our goal is to have 650 million ounces of silver 582.3 9.7 9.5 9.5 547.6 and 7.5 million ounces of gold 502.4 480.1 530.3 8.1 in reserves by 2018. 6.7 STRATEGIC REPORT 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Lower due to less infill drilling to convert resources into Gold reserves remained stable. reserves at Saucito and at San Julián. Productivity Fresnillo Saucito Ore milled per person (tonnes) Ore milled per person (tonnes) 884 1,249 Tonnes of ore milled per person, including contractors, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE at underground mines; and tonnes of ore deposited and waste material moved per person, including contractors, 1,489 at open pit mines. 1,703 1,615 1,230 1,249 1,491 1,112 975 911 884 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Lower volumes of ore processed per person due to Lower due to the greater number of workers and increased number of contractors hired to increase contractors hired to increase preparation and preparation and development. development, which more than offset the benefit of the increased throughput. Ciénega Herradura Noche Buena Ore milled per person (tonnes) Ore/waste moved per person (tonnes) Ore/waste moved per person (tonnes) 1,577 73,250 95,361 152,977 1,626 1,697 85,931 1,577 79,297 1,369 70,370 71,098 73,250 1,230 101,125 95,361 87,724 87,717 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Lower volume of ore processed per person due to the Increased volumes of ore and waste material hauled by Similar volumes of ore and waste material moved by increased number of contractors hired to increase fewer personnel. fewer personnel. preparation and development. 34 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Key Performance Indicators 2 Develop Our performance in the year The milling facility and leaching plant at San Julián (phase I) began processing ore in 2016, exceeding design capacity by year end notwithstanding a brief start-up delay due to a lubrication system malfunction. Commissioning of the flotation plant (phase II) has been delayed from year end 2016 to 2Q 2017 due to a combination of external factors. Construction began on the new Pyrites facility, with the first phase leaching plant on track to come on line in 1Q 2018. The Centauro Extension project at Herradura, encompassing a second line to the dynamic leaching plant, was approved and construction began, with start-up expected in 2018. See pages 68-70 San Julián phase II: flotation plant 2Q17 Pyrites phase I: leaching plant 1Q18 Centauro Extension: 2nd line to the DLP 2018 Construction of the Flotation plant at San Julián Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 35 2 Develop KPIs Project delivery FRESNILLO TODAY Ability to adhere to forecasted schedules and budgets. This measures management’s forecast strength and execution capabilities. 2 2016 objectives 2016 performance 2017 objectives STRATEGIC REPORT San Julián • Commission the leaching plant (phase I) • The leaching plant has been in operation • Commission the flotation plant (phase II) in 2Q 2016; flotation plant (phase II) since mid-August 2016 and has in 2Q 2017. expected to be concluded in 4Q 2016. exceeded milling capacity. San Julián phase II was delayed due to unusually high rainfall, high rotation of contractor personnel and delays in the delivery of certain equipment. Pyrites Plant • Conclude detailed engineering. • Project resumed, detailed engineering • Initiate construction of the leaching plant. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Equipment orders and construction on concluded, site preparation commenced, hold; project to resume pending Board and major equipment orders placed. approval as market conditions warrant. Centauro Extension • Project approved; detailed engineering • Continue construction of second line continued, foundations of the milling to the DLP. area advanced and orders for various components placed. For more on our performance See pages 60-70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS San Julián Pyrites plant Centauro extension Capex budget: Capex budget: Capex budget: US$ US$ US$ 515m (revised upward from US$500 million in 2013) 155m 110m Total capex to date: Total capex to date: Total capex to date: US$ 479.8m 15.1m US$ US$ Timeline: Revised several times since Timeline: The project was temporarily 10.2m Timeline: 2016-2018 project inception in order to optimise put on hold in early 2016 in line with capex allocation, ensure sufficient the Board’s contingency plan, and was water supply, reinforce security and approved for resumption in the second accommodate delays relating to weather, quarter; notwithstanding the brief delay, permitting and personnel retention. the project is on track to take less than Commissioning of phase II is expected two years to reach production, with the in 2Q 2017, rather than year end 2016. first phase leaching plant scheduled to come on line in 1Q 2018 and the tailing flotation facility in 2019. 36 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Key Performance Indicators 3 Explore Our performance in the year The 2016 exploration programme was mainly focused on areas of influence at current operating mines and key exploration sites. Total gold and silver resources both increased in the year. See pages 71-75 2016 exploration investment US$ 137.9m 2017 exploration budget US$ 160m Exploration at Juanicipio Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 37 3 Explore KPIs Total resources (attributable) Quantifies measured, indicated and inferred resources at FRESNILLO TODAY all our assets; an indicator of the Group’s growth potential and ability to discover and develop new ore bodies. 3 STRATEGIC REPORT 2016 objectives 2016 performance 2017 objectives • US$135-140 million budgeted for • US$137.9 million invested in exploration • US$160 million budgeted for exploration, exploration, including capitalised (US$16.7 million capitalised) with good including US$8 million expected to be expenses. results at Fresnillo, Saucito, San Julián, capitalised. Pilarica and Guanajuato. • Juanicipio: detailed engineering, further • Drilling programme continued, with the • Continue exploration at depth at exploration. exploration ramp extended. Juanicipio, in conjunction with new objectives through a 20,000 metre drilling programme. • Ongoing exploration to convert • Exploration programme focused on • Intensify exploration to convert resources resources into reserves at mines increasing resources at some sites. into reserves. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and at key projects. For more on our performance See pages 71-75 Attributable silver resources Attributable gold resources Millions of ounces Millions of ounces 2,171.5 38.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38.4 35.5 2,038.8 2,140.3 2,008.4 1,970.7 2,171.5 31.2 33.5 34.1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Higher due to positive exploration results at Fresnillo, Higher due to an increase at Herradura and Orisyvo Saucito, San Julián, Pilarica and Guanjuato, although with derived from both the increase in gold price and positive lower silver grades and a lower cut-off grade. exploration results. 38 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Key Performance Indicators 4 Sustainability Our performance in the year We reached our goal to have a mature HSECR management system. We aligned our HSECR strategies to contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) and our performance was recognised by our inclusion in the STOXX Global ESG leaders. We hold ourselves accountable to our commitment to prevent fatalities. See pages 76-99 2015 HSECR system maturity 92.3% 2016 HSECR system maturity 100% Dynamic Leaching Plant at San Julián Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 39 4 Sustainability KPIs 4 Water FRESNILLO TODAY Water input Water intensity Megalitres M3 per tonne of mineral processed 10,797 0.22 2016 objectives • Achieve full maturity of HSECR system as planned. 11,624 0.25 2016 performance 10,797 0.22 0.20 0.19 • We achieved 100% maturity of our 7,905 8,452 HSECR system. 2017 objectives STRATEGIC REPORT • Implement the second phase of our 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 ethics and integrity project to embed The volume of water received by a facility for operational Water input per tonne of mineral processed. ethics in our organisational culture. use, including groundwater from aquifers (dewatering), bore fields, ore entrainment and third party wastewater. For more on our performance See pages 76-99 Greenhouse Gases Community Investment Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas intensity Community investment Kt of CO2e Tonnes of CO2e per tonne US$ of mineral processed 459 0.020 2.59m CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key Scope 1 Scope 2 459 412 0.019 0.020 376 0.018 325 0.017 2.65 2.59 2.14 2.21 475 413 422 363 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Measures Scope 1 (direct emissions) from combustion Greenhouse gas emissions per tonne of mineral Contributions (cash, in-kind support and administration of fuel in mobile and stationary sources, and Scope 2 processed. costs) to the communities where we operate, develop (indirect emissions) from electricity purchased from the projects, and explore, within five strategic levers: Mexican National Grid (CFE), Thermoelectric Peñoles education, social welfare (public health, social interaction (TEP) and Wind Force Peñoles (FEISA), in kilotonnes and sports), environmental awareness, community of CO2 equivalent. capacity building and infrastructure. Fatalities and Injuries Fatal injuries Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors. Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors per The number of lost-time injuries and fatalities per 3 0.11 5.99 1,000,000 hours worked. 1,000,000 hours worked. 3 0.11 7.51 0.09 5.99 2 3.70 1 1 0.04 0.04 2.18 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 The Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR), which measures Lost-time injuries are work-related injuries rendering any fatalities per one million hours worked and had been a KPI of the Group’s employees – full or part-time, direct or in previous years, is no longer considered a key indicator subcontracted, union or non-union – unable to perform as it dilutes the impact of fatalities in light of rising activity his/her regular duties for one shift or more. levels. FFIR remains an internal performance indicator, as seen on page 84 in the Social and Sustainability Report. 40 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Key Performance Indicators Financial KPIs Earnings per share excluding post-tax Silverstream revaluation effects Our performance Attributable profit available to in the year equity shareholders, excluding the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract divided by the weighted average The Company achieved strong number of shares in issue financial results with growth during the period. Monitors of 103.7% in gross profit, 88.5% net profit levels generated for equity shareholders. in EBITDA, and 552.6% in attributable profit for the year, excluding the effect of the Silverstream revaluation. See pages 100-111 Earnings per share excluding post-tax Silverstream revaluation effects US$ 0.453m 0.91 0.45 0.38 0.07 0.06 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Higher profits divided across an unchanged weighted average number of shares in issue. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 41 Cash cost per ounce Fresnillo cash cost: silver Saucito cash cost: silver FRESNILLO TODAY US$/ounce US$/ounce 2.1 0.4 Total cash cost (cost of sales plus treatment and refining charges, less depreciation) less revenues from by-products divided by ounces of silver or gold sold. Used to compare 31.43 31.43 profit margins and economic 22.83 22.83 competitiveness amongst peers. 18.62 15.56 17.2 18.62 15.56 17.23 82.2% 98.4% 74.3% 71.6% 87.9% 84.2% 86.7% 102.3% 64.0% 92.6% 3.61 2.48 2.09 1.15 STRATEGIC REPORT 5.59 5.87 5.29 5.60 0.49 -0.39 Key 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Gold/silver price Cash cost % figures represent margin between Decrease in cash cost mainly explained by higher Decrease in cash cost driven by higher by-product by-product credits, lower cost per tonne and higher credits, lower cost per tonne due to economies of scale cash cost and gold/silver price ore grade. achieved; and lower treatment and refining charges. Herradura cash cost: gold Ciénega cash cost: gold Noche Buena cash cost: gold US$/ounce US$/ounce US$/ounce 470.7 217.2 765.9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1,674.14 1,674.14 1,401.32 1,401.32 1,257.66 1,257.66 1,674.14 1,126.54 1,246.50 1,126.54 1,246.50 1,401.32 1,257.66 1,126.54 1,246.50 33.8% 24.8% 15.6% 71.9% 53.5% 65.7% 63.0% 62.2% 105.1% 38.6% 58.1% 97.3% 77.1% 78.7% 117.4% 928.03 945.63 972.74 765.90 651.23 574.16 470.56 465.42 472.53 470.72 288.00 245.49 -84.84 37.68 -217.19 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Decrease in cash cost mainly due to lower cost per tonne Decrease in cash cost explained by higher by-product Decrease in cash cost per ounce driven by higher gold FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and higher by-product credits. credits and decrease in cost per tonne, partly offset by ore grade, lower cost per tonne and the reversal of an lower ore grade. adverse inventory valuation effect. EBITDA, EBITDA MARGIN EBITDA and EBITDA margin Cash flow generated from operations US$ before working capital adjustments and cash flow from operating US$ 1,032.0m 1,023.3m activities before changes in working capital EBITDA is gross profit plus depreciation included within cost of sales, less administrative, selling and exploration 61.0% expenses. EBITDA margin 1,315.3 54.2% 1,356.7 is EBITDA divided by total 45.2% 1,032.0 1,023.3 revenue. Both EBITDA and cash 40.1% 37.9% 750.2 729.8 flow from operating activities 567.3 547.5 568.5 537.5 before changes in working capital measure the Group’s 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ability to generate cash from its core business. Increase as a result of higher gross profit, the favourable effect of the higher depreciation and the lower Increase due to higher profits. exploration and administrative expenses. 42 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Managing Our Risks The Company’s approach to managing the risk inherent in our business activities is to ensure that our framework is able to identify, assess, prioritise and manage the most likely risks to have the greatest impact on the value creation objectives defined in our business model. Risk management system In addition to our established risk 2016 risk assessment The annual and ongoing elements of management activities, our priority Our 2016 risk assessment exercise took the Group’s risk management process for 2016 was to promote a ‘monitoring place across all our operations, advanced are controlled by well-established risk environment’ which consists of validating projects, exploration offices and support identification, assessment and monitoring the effectiveness of our current controls and corporate areas, which identified and processes. We have continued to build on in order to support the Board in their evaluated 107 risks, including three new our existing risk management framework, responsibilities of monitoring and reviewing risks added over the course of the year enhancing risk management and internal risk management and the internal control that reflect specific circumstances related control systems across the business in systems. For this task, over the course to certain projects (2015: 104 risks). This line with changes to the UK Corporate of 2016, operations managers, the universe was narrowed down into major Governance Code. controllership group, HSECR managers risks monitored by Executive Management and exploration managers have all and the Audit Committee, and then further been engaged in strengthening their consolidated into 11 principal risks closely understanding of internal controls monitored by the Board of Directors. monitoring requirements. Risk Governance Framework Top-down Board of Directors Oversight, • Overall responsibility • Defines risk appetite. • Monitors exposures • Sets tone on risk identification, for risk management to ensure their nature management culture. assessment and and internal control and extent are aligned mitigation of risk systems. with overall goals and at a corporate level strategic objectives. Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit • Assesses level of risk related to • Supports the Board in • Supports the Audit Committee achieving strategic objectives. monitoring risk exposures in evaluating the design and • Oversees execution and against risk appetite. effectiveness of risk mitigation implementation of controls into • Reviews the effectiveness of our strategies, internal controls strategic and operating plans. risk management and internal implemented by management. control systems. Bottom-up Identification, assessment, and Operational level mitigation of risk • Risk identification and • R  isk mitigation and internal • Risk awareness and safety across all operational assessment performed controls monitoring embedded culture embedded in and functional areas across mining operations, across functional areas and day-to-day operations. projects, exploration sites. business units. For the bottom-up process, business A number of developments have adversely Based on the aforementioned unit heads determined the perceived level impacted the entire Mexican mining circumstances, we assessed that the of risk for their individual unit. Executive industry in recent years as reflected in risk rating levels for potential actions Management then reviewed and the Investment Attractiveness Index 1 that by the government (e.g. taxes), security, challenged each perceived risk level, and assesses how mineral endowments and and public perception against mining compared it to Fresnillo plc’s risk universe public policy factors, such as taxation and have increased for 2017. In addition, as a whole. The results of this exercise regulatory uncertainty, affect exploration while the Board has always given the were used as an additional input for the and mining investment. Specific examples highest priority to safety issues, three identification of the Group’s principal risks. that have impacted the industry in Mexico fatal accidents occurred in 2016 and one The same risk analysis was conducted on include: weak rule of law in disbanding in early 2017; thus we also elevated the advanced projects, detailing the specific illegal blockades to mining assets; legal risk rating level for safety to reflect this risks faced by each project according to uncertainty regarding certain land tenure troubling reversal of our safety record. their unique characteristics and conditions. issues; instances of community opposition As with all our key risks, the Board and The risk heat map for each business unit to mining resulting in the cancellation the Executive Committee continue to and development project is included in the of major projects; aggressive and closely monitor them. Review of Operations (pages 58-70). unfavourable tax requirements that 1. Fraser Institute Annual Survey of Mining disadvantage Mexico relative to other Companies: 2015, published June 8, 2016. mining countries; and the adverse www.fraserinstitute.org security environment still facing a number of regions in the country. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 43 Heat map FRESNILLO TODAY Risk* 1. Impact of global macroeconomic developments (silver and gold prices) (v) Severe 2 2. Access to land (v) 1 3. Potential actions by the government (e.g. taxes/more stringent regulations) (v) 3 3 6 6 4. Security 4 4 7 5 5 5. Public perception against mining 11 9 6. Safety Impact 8 7. Projects (performance risk) 10 8. Union relations 9. Exploration STRATEGIC REPORT Very low 10. Human resources 11. Environmental incidents (v) Likelihood Unlikely Almost certain * Bold text indicates those risks which have changed during 2016. (v) Risk that was considered for the viability assessment as detailed on page 54. X 2016 X 2015 1. Impact of global macroeconomic developments Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy There could be an adverse Fresnillo’s hedging policy remains guided High • Mines in operation impact on our sales and profits, by the principle of providing shareholders • Development Risk rating and potentially the economic with full exposure to gold and silver prices. projects CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (relative position) viability of projects, from However, following shareholder approval 2016: Very high (1) • Growth pipeline macroeconomic developments for the acquisition of 44% of Penmont (and 2015: Very high (1) such as: associated companies) in 2014, we initiated • A decrease in precious metal a specific hedging programme to protect the Change in heat map: value of the investment made in the acquisition, Key risk indicators prices (primary driver of the risk); even though this was not using a collar structure to allow partial continued • Gross profit the case for silver and gold exposure to gold prices. The volume associated sensitivity to in 2016, with higher annual with this phased hedging programme was Description of risk change % change in average realised prices over strictly limited to up to the 44% of production metals price associated with the acquired Penmont assets During 2016 all the previous year of 10.3% and to MXP/US$ and will not be extended to other assets in the macroeconomic and 10.7% respectively; the exchange rate. variables favoured our high uncertainty of economic Group. The total volume hedged was 1,559,689 financial results, however • EBITDA sensitivity markets still positions this risk oz of which 242,000 oz matured in 2016 with FINANCIAL STATEMENTS volatility and uncertainty to % change in at the top of our scale. a profit of US$48,158. (For more details, see were constants in the metals price and Financial Review pages 102) • Exchange rates, for the same period (and are to MXP/US$ same reasons of volatility Fresnillo is not precluded from entering into expected to remain as exchange rate. and uncertainty; while most derivatives to minimise its exposure to changes such in 2017); therefore currencies lost value vs. the in the prices of lead and zinc by-products. As in we still consider the US dollar in 2016, the Mexican previous years, the Group entered into a hedging impact of global peso suffered a devaluation structure in 2016 to mitigate the risk related to macroeconomic of 17.7% vs. the average spot the sale of lead and zinc. See note 31 in the developments our exchange rate of the US dollar. Financial Statements page 211. principal risk driver; in • General inflation in Mexico Furthermore, we have hedging policies in addition, most industry which was 3.42% in Mexican place for foreign exchange risk, including and financial analysts pesos in 2016; the specific those associated with capex related to projects. who follow metal prices deflation affecting the The Company entered into a number of foreign continue to foresee Company was 8.08% exchange forward contracts denominated in volatility in silver and in US dollar terms. Canadian dollars, euros and Swedish kronas. gold prices for 2017, with See note 31 in the Financial Statements page 210. a notable spread among • A decrease in the price of the A significant increase is expected in some of forecasts, meaning Company’s by-products; this continued volatility. was not the case in 2016, with our main energy inputs (diesel and electricity), the average annual prices for because of the increase in international lead and zinc rising 7.0% and petroleum prices and the market liberalisation 20.0%, respectively, over the of fuel prices in Mexico. We will continue to previous year. identify efficiency initiatives to improve our energy consumption. Change in heat map: Vertical movement indicates impact Horizontal movement indicates likelihood No change 44 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Managing Our Risks continued 2. Access to land Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Failure or significant delays in To maximise our opportunities for Medium • Mines in operation accessing the surface land above successful land access we actively manage • Development Risk rating our mineral concessions and other our mining rights focusing on areas of projects (relative position) land of interest is a persistent risk to interest or strategic value; at the end of 2016: Very high (2) • Growth pipeline our strategy, with a potentially high 2016, after adding required areas and 2015: Very high (2) impact on our objectives. Possible divesting areas of less interest, we held • Sustainable barriers to land access include: 1.8 million hectares, a 11.4% decrease vs. development Change in heat map: • Rising expectations of land 2015. Other initiatives include: owners. • Plan well in advance for land requirements and acquisitions (e.g. anticipating any Key risk indicators • Refusal to acknowledge prior land acquisition terms and issues with a potential land purchase Description of risk change • Percentage of conditions by members of before intensive exploration). In certain The mining industry land required an agrarian community. areas of interest, leasing or occupation continues to face legal for advanced agreements with purchase options challenges in regard exploration • Influence of multiple special are negotiated. to access to land by projects which is interests in land negotiations. • Foster strong community relations individuals and local under occupation • Conflicts in land boundaries or other through investment in community communities who may with an often arduous agreements other programmes and infrastructure. Such seek to disregard previous resolution process. than full property investments totalled US$2.6 million land agreements; this • Succession issues among land in 2016. has been a permanent ownership (overall owners resulting in a lack of difficulty in recent years. and by project). • Always seek tri-party cooperation clarity about the legal entitlement • Total US$ and between the government, community Thus, despite all to possess and sell land. percentage of and ourselves in securing access to land. the strategic actions • Litigation risk i.e. increased undertaken by the project budget • Early involvement of our community activism by agrarian communities Company, the perceived spend on HSECR relations teams during negotiation and/or judicial authorities. level of this risk remains activities, and acquisition processes, including Furthermore, insecurity and conflicts very high. including the exploration stage. in our exploration and operation community • Continue working with our land relations (at areas increase the complexity of negotiation teams, comprising projects and land access. negotiators hired directly by Fresnillo exploration sites). and also provided by Peñoles as part of the service agreement. We have almost concluded a comprehensive review of the legal status of the Company’s land rights in order to mitigate or eliminate litigation risk. Certain areas of opportunity were identified and we continue to implement measures to manage this risk on a case-by-case basis. Such measures include, whenever possible, negotiating with agrarian communities the outright purchase of land through mechanisms provided under agrarian law as well as utilising other legal mechanisms under mining law which afford added protection for land occupation. The Company has already closed several such agreements in the states of Sonora and Zacatecas. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 45 3. Potential actions by the government, e.g. implementation of more stringent regulations for obtaining permits, etc. FRESNILLO TODAY Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy The implementation of new The Company, together with its internal Low • Mines in operation governmental requirements and external advisors, is conducting a full • Development Risk rating may have an adverse impact assessment of the detail of the Tax Law as projects (relative position) on us, as would other potential, well as its potential impact on the Company. 2016: Very high (3) • Growth pipeline not yet materialised, or more As a result of this review, the Company 2015: Very high (3) stringent ecological or explosives believes that there are solid grounds to • Sustainable regulations, or more difficult legally challenge, on a Federal level, the development Change in heat map: processes to obtain permits. imposition of this Tax Law. We are currently On 31 December 2016, the state formulating an appropriate defence of Zacatecas in northern Mexico strategy. Should legal challenges not prove Key risk indicators published a new tax law (the ‘Tax successful, we estimate that the potential Description of risk change • Number of STRATEGIC REPORT Law’) that came into effect on net impact of these new taxes on the We continue to perceive media mentions 1 January 2017, which includes a Company’s income statement would be this risk level as very high related to mining new set of ‘environmental taxes’ in the range of US$4-7 million for the 2017 due to the great pressure regulations (i.e. relating to the following activities fiscal year. that the government tax/royalties/ undertaken within the state: We continue to collaborate with other could exert over the banning of mining i. Extraction of materials other members of the mining community via the mining industry, as activities in than minerals referenced in Mexican Mining Chamber to lobby against is the case described protected areas, Article 4 of the Mexican Mining this and any other new detrimental taxes, of the imposition of the legal precedents) Law (gold, silver, lead, zinc, etc.) royalties, or regulations. We also support environmental taxes and profile of from the soil and sub-soil the industry’s lobbying efforts to improve contained in the new those quoted through open-pit processes; the general public’s understanding of the Tax Law in Zacatecas, (political parties, Mining Law. as well as the continued government ii. Emissions of certain substances The Company remains in compliance with officials, etc.). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE into the atmosphere; perceived level of all applicable environmental regulations corruption across Mexico, iii. Deposit of contaminants into and is fully committed to operating in which remains high. We the soil and water; and a sustainable way. share a general industry iv. Storage of waste in public view that regrettably, local Indigenous consultation is an ongoing or private landfills. and regional governments matter, thus we continue to monitor In addition, the Tax Law also developments and work with the Mexican in particular have includes certain other modifications Mining Chamber on the issue. While worsened in this regard, and adjustments to pre-existing no new regulation has been defined notwithstanding the taxes in Zacatecas such as the following the dismissal of the 2015 national effort to payroll tax and the tax for the court case, a significant change to implement an University of Zacatecas. the Mining Law could take time due anticorruption system, A 2015 case brought before Mexico’s to the complexity of the terms and which is not yet fully deployed. As a result, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supreme Court of Justice looked at proceedings yet to be discussed. the right of indigenous communities delays in obtaining within the overall process for permits for certain granting mining concessions. While operations and/or the ruling did not find in favour of projects remain a risk. the communities in this case, such matters may arise again and affect the granting of new concessions in Mexico. 46 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Managing Our Risks continued 4. Security Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Our people, contractors and We closely monitor the security situation, Low • Mines in operation suppliers face the risk of kidnapping, maintain clear internal communications • Development Risk rating extortion or harm due to security and coordinate work in areas of higher projects (relative position) conditions in the regions where insecurity, along with the following practices 2016: Very high (4) • Growth pipeline we operate. We face the risk of to manage our security risks and prevent 2015: Very high (4) restricted access to operations/ possible incidents: • Sustainable projects and theft of assets. development • We maintain close relations with Change in heat map: The influence of drug cartels, authorities, including army encampments other criminal elements and general installed near a certain number of lawlessness in the regions where our operations. We also maintain a Key risk indicators we operate, combined with our relationship with the army secretariat Description of risk change • Total number of exploration and project activities at the regional level in order to align We have suffered more security incidents in areas of transfer or cultivation and coordinate efforts in the regions security incidents to affecting our of drugs, makes working in these where we operate. personnel, both in workforce (thefts, areas of particular risk for us. • We designed and engineered the frequency and in severity, kidnapping, We recognise the importance standard of technological and physical thus we believe that the extortion, etc.). of confidentiality, continuity, security measures for all of our business perceived level of risk has • Number of sites integrity and security of our data units. Implementation was completed increased vs the previous affected and and production systems. Whilst at the dynamic leaching plant and other year. In addition, the crime work days lost, cybersecurity has not risen to areas in Penmont during 2016, and we rate worsened during by region and the level of a key risk, it continues expect to conclude the process in the 2016 in half of the regions type of site. to merit ongoing management remaining Business Units (BUs) in 2017. and projects where • Number of media oversight and review. • All BUs have a chief of security who we operate. mentions related coordinates internal and external We also refer to The to security issues personnel to improve the efficiency of Global Peace Index 1 affecting the our security strategy. For 2017 we aim to ranking, which indicates mining industry. work with security contractors to convert a higher likelihood of our personnel into professionally trained violent demonstrations specialists in managing security risks and and political instability. to reduce their turnover rate. This index uses three • We continued to utilise logistics controls broad themes: level of in 2016 to further reduce the probability safety and security in of theft of mineral concentrate, including society; the extent of the use of real-time tracking technology, domestic or international surveillance cameras, guard services and conflict; and the degree control checkpoints in a ‘safe corridor’ of militarisation. Mexico and reduced authorised stops in order ranks 140 of 163 countries to optimise delivery times and minimise worldwide (from best to the convoys’ exposure; on short-haul worst), as a country with routes no stops are allowed. Certain a low state of peace. new automatic and rigid truck covers are being analysed for transportation. • We continue to invest in community programmes, infrastructure improvements and government initiatives to support development of lawful local communities and discourage criminal acts. • In order to ensure the security of our personnel, access to the San Nicolás del Oro prospect remains suspended because of the level of insecurity in the state of Guerrero. • We continue to promote reporting to authorities amongst our contractors. • Our cybersecurity strategy seeks to ensure that our networks, systems and data are secured in accordance with best practices as put forth by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) and Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies (COBIT). 1. Global Peace Index 2016 and Mexico Peace Index 2016 prepared by the Institute for Economics & Peace, http://economicsandpeace.org/ Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 47 5. Public perception against mining FRESNILLO TODAY Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Public opinion globally is Communities are our strategic partners; Low • Mines in operation increasingly wary of the potential having their trust requires understanding • Development Risk rating adverse social and environmental and effective engagement, and being projects (relative position) consequences of mining operations. accountable for our impact. Our permanent 2016: High (5) • Growth pipeline This sentiment is manifested programme for community engagement 2015: High (5) through increased regulatory includes: • Sustainable obligations for mining companies development • Working with communities at an early Change in heat map: and increased social activism by exploration stage to understand their communities and other grassroots needs and communicate the benefits organisations. of developing and operating a mine Key risk indicators in terms of social welfare and quality Description of risk change • Number of STRATEGIC REPORT of life. We have maintained the local actions • Conducting regular community social license to operate in by nonperception studies across all our our communities; however, governmental operating units, the results of which public sentiment against organisations enable each of the BUs to update their mining has continued (NGOs) or other social risks and opportunities, and define to increase. local social action plans focused on specific areas of There are multiple groups against value for each community. For 2017 the mining by region. examples of cancelled priority will be discussing harmonious projects after years of • Number of relocation of certain groups (if required) protests and violent actions by NGOs and the implementation of jointly clashes in Latin America. or other local defined and approved plans. We now Local and international social groups utilise an information system to record CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NGOs are increasingly against mining community support and social active, aiming to share in the Americas. investment, with logs of activities experiences and tactics • Number of media organised by the Company and requests against extractive mentions related for contributions, allowing us to better industry projects at to demonstrations track and follow up on our work. periodic meetings with against the • Following the guidelines set out by communities. In addition, mining industry. the International Finance Corporation lawyers in the north and the International Council of Mining of Mexico are sharing and Metals. strategies in respect of • Continuously developing a portfolio successfully cancelled or of proposals for institutional projects temporarily suspended and alliances with NGOs. During 2016 projects, thus we believe FINANCIAL STATEMENTS we started an alliance with ECOS likelihood in the perceived (biodiversity), and continued working level of this risk has with Naturalia (biodiversity and increased. communities), IBBY (books for children) and Innovec (science education). • Monitoring public opinion within local and international media (newspapers, radio stations, local channels). • Collaborating with peers in the international and Mexican mining community to pursue an industry response to this risk. See Community Relations pages 95–99 for more information. 48 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Managing Our Risks continued 6. Safety Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Inherent to our industry is the risk Our safety performance regrettably Low • Mines in operation of incidents due to unsafe acts deteriorated in 2016, thus we have • Sustainable Risk rating or conditions that lead to injuries redoubled our efforts in the pursuit development (relative position) or fatalities. of our strategic safety goals. We are 2016: High (6) Our people face risks such as committed to offering a safe workplace 2015: Medium high (7) fire, explosion, electrocution and to our workers and contractors; and Key risk indicators carbon monoxide poisoning, as a safety culture where our personnel Change in heat map: and contractors have the knowledge, • Safe behaviour well as risks specific to each mine competence and desire to work safely. index = site and development projects such percentage of as rock falls caused by geological Our priorities for 2017 are: Description of risk change work observed conditions, cyanide contamination, • Continue working towards zero fatalities. that is executed and heavy or light equipment Three fatal accidents • 20% reduction in the accident rate in all safely (in collisions between other machinery occurred in 2016. The our operations. accordance with or involving personnel. Board has always given Our strategy consists of: the Company’s the highest priority to safety • Managing our knowledge of safety safety issues and oversaw procedures). through identifying and analysing risks, the investigations of these evaluating controls, performing situational accidents, ensuring that • Unsafe conditions assessments and monitoring performance. actions were taken to eliminated index = percentage of • Engaging our stakeholders through the improve safety systems unsafe conditions ‘No more accidents’ process, which has and practices; however, observed and become a permanent effort to reinforce the likelihood of this risk recorded that the safety culture, and includes the has been increased to have been following programmes and initiatives: reflect this troubling eliminated. ‘Leaders for Safety’, ‘Behavioural reversal of our safety Change’, ‘Operational Discipline’, ‘Rules record. • Operational that Save Lives,’ and comprehensive procedures accident investigation. availability index = percentage of • Launching initiatives to embed safety required safety in our culture. Safety culture is routinely procedures that monitored to assess the attitudes, are available. behaviours and disciplined elimination of unsafe conditions. We have launched a new initiative called ‘Safety folder’ to improve compliance and monitoring of safety behaviour. The Total Recordable Injury Frequency rate decreased to 16.93 in 2016 (vs. 26.84 in 2015) and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate decreased to 5.99 (vs. 7.51 in 2015). We continue to deliver training for both employees and contractors. Personnel received an average of 89 hours of training in 2016. 50 of the 89 hours were in relation to HSECR training, of which 41 related to safety. See Safety pages 82-84 for more on our safety strategy and programmes. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 49 7. Projects (performance risk) FRESNILLO TODAY Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Pursuing advanced exploration Our investment evaluation process Medium • Development and development opportunities, determines how to best direct available projects Risk rating which are core to meeting our capital using technical, financial and (relative position) strategic goals, carry certain qualitative criteria. 2016: Medium high (7) project-related risks: • Technical: we assess the resource Key risk indicators 2015: Medium high (6) • Economic viability: impact estimate and confirmed resources, • Earned value of capital cost to develop and metallurgy of the mineral bodies, Change in heat map: (rate of financial maintain the mine, future metal investment required in general advancement prices and operating costs infrastructure (e.g. roads, power, general rate vs. physical through the mine’s life cycle. services, housing) and infrastructure advancement). • Uncertainties associated with required for the mine and plant. Description of risk change STRATEGIC REPORT • Percentage of developing and operating new • Financial: we look at risk relative to return Our strict investment major equipment mines and expansion projects: for proposed investments of capital. We governance process and ordered and fluctuations in ore grade and set expected internal rates of return (IRR) system of capital project received recovery, unforeseen complexities per project as thresholds for approving controls remain in place, according to plan. in the mining process, poor rock the allocation of capital based on the safeguarding our ability • Percentage quality, unexpected presence present value of expected cash flows to deliver growth through of completion of underground water or lack from the invested capital. development projects of mine thereof, lack of community • Qualitative factors: e.g. alignment of the on time and on budget. development. support and inability to investment with our strategic plan and We are prepared to defer obtain and maintain required business model; synergies with other certain projects based on operating permits. investments and operating assets; adverse macroeconomic • Delivery risk: projects may go implications for safety, security, people, conditions. For the time CORPORATE GOVERNANCE over budget in terms of cost and resourcing and community relations. being, and with the time, or may not be constructed We closely monitor project controls to available information, in accordance with the required we do not foresee a ensure that we deliver approved projects specifications, or major mining change in the perceived on time, on budget and as per the defined equipment may not be delivered specifications. The Executive Management level of this risk for 2017. on time. team and Board of Directors are regularly updated on progress. Each advanced exploration project and major capital development project has a risk register containing the identified and assessed risks specific to the project. The project development pipeline in 2017 includes: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Completion and commissioning in 2Q 2017 of phase II of the San Julián project; management will continue to closely monitor progress, paying particular attention to contractor turnover (due to the project’s remote location and security incidents), as well as delays in the delivery of certain equipment that could further impact progress. • Ongoing construction and development of the pyrites plant. • The Centauro Extension, including a second line of the dynamic leaching plant, at Herradura. See Development Projects on pages 68-70 for more information. 50 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Managing Our Risks continued 8. Union relations Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Although the risk of union action Our strategy is to integrate unionised Low • Mines in operation or a deterioration in union relations personnel into each BU team. To do so, • Development Risk rating at some sites may be possible, our we have clearly assigned responsibilities projects (relative position) overall union relationship continues and programmes for maintaining close 2016: Medium low (8) to strengthen; nonetheless, internal relationships with unions at mine sites and at 2015: Medium low (8) union politics could impact us the national level. We have maintained close Key risk indicators negatively, as could pressure communication with union leaders at various Change in heat map: from other mining unions that levels of the organisation to raise awareness • Union members want to take over the Fresnillo about the economic situation the industry level of labour contract. is facing, to share our production results satisfaction. and to encourage their participation in Description of risk change • Number of media our initiatives regarding safety and other mentions related operational improvements (such as the During 2016 we continued to mining union safety guardians programme, alliances to build on our good developments. for obtaining certifications, integration of relations with unions high productivity teams, family integration at the national and local activities, etc.). levels, and we do not expect an increase in We are proactive and timely in our responses this perceived level of risk. to the needs of the unions, and experienced no labour-related work stoppages in 2016. Notwithstanding the above, we remain alert If required, we engage experienced to internal leadership legal counsel, both internal and external, struggles that might arise to support us on labour issues. We will amongst certain sections continue to closely monitor union and of the union or between labour developments. different mining unions. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 51 9. Exploration FRESNILLO TODAY Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy We are highly dependent on Risk capital invested in exploration in 2016 Medium • Growth pipeline the success of the exploration totalled US$137.9 million, below budget; this Risk rating programme to meet our strategic was in accordance with the Group’s decision (relative position) value-creation targets and to reduce exploration expenditure in light of Key risk indicators 2016: Medium (9) our long-term production and current market conditions. Our exploration 2015: Medium (9) • Drill programmes reserve goals. objectives for 2017 include a budgeted risk completed Risk factors that may impact capital invested in exploration of Change in heat map: (overall and by prospecting and converting inferred approximately US$160 million, with the project). resources, apart from the growing approximate spending split of 36% for operating mines, 22% for exploration projects • Change in the level of insecurity and access to and the remaining 42% for prospects, number of ounces land detailed in previous risks, Description of risk change STRATEGIC REPORT in reserves and include not having a robust portfolio regional prospecting and mining rights. Maintaining a reasonable resources. of prospects in our pipeline with Our measures also include: investment in exploration, sufficient potential in terms of • Rate of • A focus on increasing regional exploration even when metal prices indicated and inferred resources conversion drilling programmes to intensify efforts are low, puts this risk on and insufficient concession coverage from resources in the districts with high potential. a steady level; continuous in target areas. to reserves. • For local exploration, aggressive in-field investment has been a We also risk the loss of purchase exploration to upgrade the resources hallmark of the Company’s opportunities due to insufficient category and convert inferred resources exploration strategy, and speed in decision making. into reserves. we foresee no change in As our production escalates and status based on available • A team of highly trained and motivated more mines approach the end of information. geologists, both employees and longtheir lives, it becomes increasingly term contractors. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE challenging to replenish reserves. • Advisory technical reviews by international third party experts, up-to-date and integrated GIS databases, remote sensing imagery and software for identifying favourable metallogenic belts and districts to be field-checked by the team. • Drill-ready high priority projects. During 2016 we revised our portfolio of concessions and determined that some did not meet our criteria for continued investment; thus we voluntarily relinquished 231,266 hectares in order to focus our efforts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on areas of greater potential. See Exploration pages 71-75 for more on our exploration programmes and investment. 52 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Managing Our Risks continued 10. Human Resources Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Our people are critical to delivering Recruitment: We assessed our hiring Medium • Mines in operation our objectives. We face risks in requirements for key positions for 2017, • Development Risk rating selecting, recruiting, training and and aim to meet openings through internal projects (relative position) retaining the people we need. training and promotion, and by recruitment 2016: Low (10) • Growth pipeline A lack of reliable contractors with through: 2015: Low (10) • Sustainable sufficient infrastructure, machinery, • Our close relationships with universities development track records of performance and offering earth sciences programmes Change in heat map: skilled people is also a risk that (we have dedicated programmes to might affect our ability to develop identify potential candidates based and construct mining works. on performance who may be hired as Key risk indicators interns and/or employees on graduation). Description of risk change • Number of • CETEF (Centre for Technical Studies We aim to have positions filled by Fresnillo) which teaches specific mining our human capital area of specialty, operational skills; all the 12 graduates requirements carefully for vacancies and from 2016 joined the Company as aligned to our operations new positions. full-time employees. and growth requirements; • Employee • CETLAR (the Peñoles Centre for for the time being we turnover rate. Technical Studies) which trains mechanics believe that we have • Average hours and electrical technicians; all seven covered our requirements, of training and of the 2016 graduates (designated which includes the professional for Fresnillo BUs) joined the Company benefit of our ongoing development as full-time employees. university recruitment per employee. activities and employee Retention: We provide a stable labour • Number of retention strategies. environment, strong corporate culture contractor committed to our people, good working Notwithstanding, we must personnel relative conditions, competitive benefits and career be ready for changes in to unionised development opportunities. In 2015, Fresnillo labour market conditions personnel per BU. plc was recognised by the Great Place to and be flexible to adapt to Work® Institute, and it currently ranks 17th available staff contractors. in Mexico among companies with more than As a result it continues 5,000 employees; results of the 2016 survey to be a challenge to will be released in 2017. maintain the best available contractor personnel. Performance: We have strengthened the maturity of our performance evaluation process, reinforcing formal feedback. We promote certification of key technical skills for operational personnel and the administrative and leadership skills development programme for required positions. Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining contracts. We invest significantly in training contractors, particularly on safety and environmental requirements. We have supported the enrolment of 58 of our contractor companies into the Self-Management Programme on Health and Safety at Work (PASST), promoted by the Mexican Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare (STPS), with 19% certified, 72% in the process and 9% who adhered voluntarily. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 53 11. Environmental incidents FRESNILLO TODAY Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Inherent to our industry is the risk Our environmental management system Low • Sustainable of environmental incidents such as ensures effective compliance with Mexican development Risk rating overflow/collapse of tailings dams, regulations, transparency and supports (relative position) cyanide spills and dust emissions, initiatives that reduce our environmental Key risk indicators 2016: Low (11) among others, any of which could footprint. We disclose our performance in 2015: Low (11) • Number of have a high potential impact on our the water and climate change programmes BUs with ISO people, communities and business. of the Carbon Disclosure Project. See Change in heat map: 14001:2004 ‘Environment’ pages 86-88 for more certification. results on our environmental strategy and indicators. • Number of BUs Description of risk change with Clean All our mining units are certified under ISO STRATEGIC REPORT Industry 14001 and have Clean Industry certification Our environmental certification. except for Saucito; in this case the course of management system, action has changed because we are pursuing • Number of BUs investment in the an integrated certification with OSHAS:18001 with International prevention of (Occupational Health and Safety Series); we Cyanide Code environmental incidents have advanced 90% towards obtaining both. certification. and training of personnel The Herradura mine is certified in the are key factors which • Number of International Cyanide Management Code reduce the risk of major environmental while at Ciénega the process is on hold, set environmental impact permits for to resume once expansion at the processing incidents. With the all advanced plant is complete. Noche Buena also information available, we exploration obtained this same certification in 2016. did not expect a change projects (according CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We rigorously adhere to the requirements in this perceived risk level. to schedule). established by each project’s environmental permit (Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Ministry of Environment, SEMARNAT). We also continue to support contractors in their efforts to integrate environmental management systems. See Environment pages 85-90 for more on our environment strategy. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 54 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Viability Statement In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Scenario 3 Tailings dam breach at a mine Governance Code, and taking into account the Group’s A tailings dam collapses and tailings current position and its principal risks for a period longer are released into the surrounding area, than the 12 months required by the going concern causing environmental damage. A fund statement, a team appointed by the Board prepared the is created by the Company to be used to remediate and compensate for any viability assessment. This team included two designated damages caused. The investigation Directors, the CEO, the CFO, the COO, Head of Business into the causes of the event is drawn Planning and Head of Risk, with the Audit Committee out and further time is needed for all environmental permits to be reinstated. being consulted throughout the process. As a result, the mine remains closed The Directors reviewed the viability period It was determined that none of the throughout the viability assessment and confirmed that a five-year period to individual risks would in isolation period. (Principal risk D) December 2021 remained suitable, in line compromise the Group’s viability. The with the nature of planning in the mining Directors therefore went on to group Scenario 4 industry and the Company’s five-year principal risks into the following severe Flooding at a mine forecast period normally used to evaluate but plausible scenarios, in each case liquidity and contingency plans which is determining the risk proximity (how An unforeseen fault containing water important given that Fresnillo’s business soon could the risk occur) and velocity is cut into, with water then entering activities cover the full value chain from (the speed with which the impact of the mine in excess of pumping exploration to mine operation. It allows a risk will be felt): capacity, thereby halting production. for modelling of capital expenditure and The ramp-up to pre-event production development programmes planned during levels commences once management the timeframe and reflecting cash flows Scenario 1 determines that it is safe to do so. generated by the projects currently under Impact of global (Singular event) development. Due to the long business macroeconomic developments cycles in the mining industry, the Directors Over a period of a year, precious metal Scenario 5 considered that a shorter time period prices fall and then remain at a low Action by the Government would be insufficient. level for the following four years of at a mine the viability period varying between Reporting on the Company’s viability Explosives are stolen on site causing US$1,108 – 1,171 per oz gold and US$15.4 requires the Directors to consider those authorities to suspend the explosives – 18.0 per oz silver. To create this principal risks that could impair the permit at the mine. Production is halted impartial projection for the future low solvency and liquidity of the Company. at the mine whilst an investigation metal price environment, an average In order to determine those risks, the into the matter is completed. Once of the three lowest forecasts from Directors robustly assessed the Grouppermits have been restored, production each year of the assessment were wide principal risks and operation-specific ramps back up to pre-event levels. used, based on consensus estimates risks by undertaking consultations with (Principal risk C) published by institutional financial Executive Management, mine managers analysts. This low metal price and other personnel across the operations. environment was deemed to be the Scenario 6 Through these conversations, the Directors most significant risk and pervasive Access to land at a mine also identified low probability, high loss across the Company. (Principal risk A) Conflicts with local communities arise scenarios – ‘singular events’ – with the resulting in the Company having to potential magnitude to severely impact Scenario 2 cease operations, until negotiations the solvency and/or liquidity of Fresnillo. Bench collapse at an open can be finalised and the land can be pit mine re-occupied. (Principal risk B) For the purpose of assessing the Group’s viability, the Directors identified that of A landslide occurs covering the lower the final principal risks detailed on page 43, pit of one of our mines. Due to the Scenario 7 the following are the most important to the unexpected nature of the event, San Julián suspension due assessment of the viability of the Group: fatalities occur. Production is gradually to Government actions ramped back up and re-established Three members of the local community A. ‘Impact of global macroeconomic to full capacity. (Singular event) are poisoned due to a cyanide tank developments’, specifically volatility rupturing. The pressure mounted by in the prices of gold and silver over social activism resulted in the Mexican a period of time. government withdrawing all permits B. Access to land. with no intention of re-installing them in C. ‘Potential actions by the government’ the future. This leads to the permanent which could include a delay in closure of the San Julián mine for the obtaining permits and/or new duration of the viability period, while restrictive regulations. mitigating actions can be established. D. Environmental incidents. (Principal risks C and D) Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 55 The above scenarios are hypothetical previous year, positioned Fresnillo plc in mitigation and control measures that the FRESNILLO TODAY and extremely severe for the purpose of a healthy financial situation. In addition, Group has in place in case an event of such creating outcomes that have the ability current macroeconomic conditions, magnitude should occur. These measures to threaten the viability of the Group; higher metal prices in scenario 1 and also include the briefing and convening however, multiple control measures are the overlaid scenarios, and a depreciated of the Board of Directors as necessary in place to prevent and mitigate any such exchange rate (MXN/USD) enhance to respond to events as they develop. occurrences from taking place. In the case the cash balance position across the Dedicated personnel for managing media, of these scenarios arising, various options scenarios assessed. engaging with authorities and other are available to the Company in order stakeholders are appointed at each level to maintain liquidity so as to continue in The lowest cash balance level was of the organisation depending on the operation. When quantifying the expected identified in scenario 2 in combination magnitude of the crisis. financial impact and remediation time with the low metal prices scenario; period for each of the risks on the notwithstanding, a positive cash balance Based on the results from this robust viability of the Group, management would be maintained in this scenario analysis, and having considered the STRATEGIC REPORT performed benchmarking against its own throughout the viability period with a established controls for the risks and the experience and against publicly available minimum level of US$278 million during available mitigating actions, the Directors information on relevant similar incidents the third year (2019), thereby not requiring have a reasonable expectation that the in the mining industry. any mitigating actions to be taken. Group will be able to continue in operation Strong risk management and internal and meet its liabilities as they fall due over All scenarios were first evaluated using control systems are in place (page 42) the five-year period of their detailed average metal prices 1, and once the throughout the Group. Through the assessment. This longer-term assessment mitigation plans had been applied where internal control systems, the Directors process supports the Directors’ statements necessary, there was no threat to the monitor key variables that have the ability on both viability, as set out above, and viability of the Company. To create a to impact the liquidity and solvency of going concern, made below. more stringent test and further challenge the Group, and we are confident that the resilience of the Group, all scenarios management is able to sufficiently mitigate 1. Average metals price analysis derived from a range of Financial Institutions as of December 2016. were then overlaid with scenario 1, (low any situations as they might occur. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE metal prices) and then re-evaluated. Certain actions for the reinforcement After these had been modelled, none of of controls and their monitoring that the scenarios foresee an extremely low were identified last year as a result of this or negative cash balance. The strong cash assessment continue to be implemented to balance at the end of 2016 (US$912 million) further strengthen the control environment. approximately 80% higher than the A Crisis Committee is part of the risk Going Concern Statement The Group’s business activities, together oz and US$1,111/oz respectively throughout mining plans to concentrate on with the factors likely to affect its future this period, whilst maintaining current production with a higher margin in order FINANCIAL STATEMENTS development, performance and position budgeted expenditure while only to accelerate cash generation without are set out in the Strategic Review on considering projects approved by the affecting the integrity of the mine plans. pages 16-111. The financial position of the Executive Committee. This resulted in Group, its cash flows and liquidity position our current cash balances reducing over After reviewing all of the above are described in the Financial Review time but maintaining ample liquidity considerations, the Directors have a on pages 100-111. In addition, note 31 throughout the period. reasonable expectation that management to the financial statements includes the have sufficient flexibility in adverse Group’s objectives, policies and processes The Directors have further calculated circumstances to maintain adequate for managing its capital; its financial prices (US$12.2 and US$841 for silver resources to continue in operational risk management objectives; details and gold, respectively), which should existence for the foreseeable future. of its financial instruments and hedging they prevail to the end of 2018 would The Directors, therefore, continue to activities; and its exposures to credit risk result in cash balances decreasing adopt the going concern basis of and liquidity risk. to minimal levels by the end of 2018, accounting in preparing the annual without applying mitigations. financial statements. In making their assessment of the Group’s ability to manage its future Should metal prices remain below the If the necessity arose to employ any or all cash requirements, the Directors have stressed prices above for an extended of the above mitigations for an extended considered the Company and Group period, management have identified period of time, it may be that these could budgets and the cash flow forecast specific elements of capital and impact the Group’s ability to achieve its for the period to 31 December 2018. exploration expenditures which could targets for production and/or reserves In addition, they reviewed a more be deferred without adversely affecting by 2018. conservative cashflow scenario with production profiles throughout the period. reduced silver and gold prices of US$15.6/ Finally, management could amend the 56 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Information Technology Technology and cybersecurity as a competitive advantage Technology has changed the way every business operates, including the mining industry. Increased productivity, reduced costs, improved safety and enhanced decision-making are among the many benefits. To secure a competitive advantage, we must continuously adapt and embrace innovation and secure our networks, systems and data. Whilst cybersecurity has not risen to the level of a key risk, it continues to merit ongoing management oversight and review. IT governance To better prepare and help guide the Group through a process of digital transformation, we have created an IT Governance Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, to steer discussions on innovation and performance at a strategic level, provide macro-level insights into technology for mining, map out technology strategy execution and oversee cybersecurity protocols. The main responsibilities of this Committee are to: • Review technology options for business process innovation. • Select the best technology, ensure alignment with business strategy and prioritise projects. • Strengthen cybersecurity framework and protocols. • Develop and oversee a technology implementation budget. • Reward results not activities. Cybersecurity We recognise the importance of confidentiality, continuity, integrity and security of our data and production systems. Whilst cybersecurity has not risen to the level of a key risk, it continues to merit ongoing management oversight and review. A third party cybersecurity assessment in 2016 identified certain gaps and weaknesses that should be addressed, indicating the need for a formal cybersecurity strategy, now under development, with dedicated specialists being selected. Our approach incorporates: (i) the US National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) which provides a policy framework of computer security guidance for how private sector organisations can assess and improve their ability to prevent, detect and respond to cyber attacks; and (ii) Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies (COBIT), a framework created by ISACA, the international professional association for IT management and governance that provides an implementable set of controls over IT and organises them around a logical framework of IT-related processes and enablers. At year end 2016, we estimated our NIST rating was 0.9 out of 4.0, compared to an Expected Industry Level rating of 2.7. A work plan to achieve that rating is well underway and expected to be complete by 1Q 2018. The following areas have already been addressed: • Disaster recovery protocols: automated backups and alternate site creation for every data room in each business unit. • Hardening: secure access configurations to servers, databases and applications; next generation hardware and software; built-in security for all devices and systems. • Network access: automated access policy management. • Network perimeter security: hacker protection tools. Our IT model To support the Group’s value creation model, our IT efforts are focused on three main areas: • Execution: technologies that can reduce costs and increase productivity and throughput. • Innovation: disruptive technologies and paradigm shifts. • Decision-making: data analytics and automatic insight generation. We believe that employees are best equipped to identify opportunities for improvement within their function areas or business units. Our ‘Make IT happen!’ initiative was created to foster ideas, innovation and communication about such opportunities; employees generated more than 120 ideas, and seven projects were ultimately selected by the IT Governance Committee for a five-year implementation roadmap (2014-2018). These related to the basic capabilities of a mining operation such as personnel and equipment tracking, proximity-warning systems and ventilation on-demand; intelligent plants (process automation and optimisation; intelligent maintenance (predictive maintenance through big data analysis); and business intelligence: single-version-of-the-truth data. In 2016, the total investment in technology was US$16.1 million, of which US$7.8 million was related to these projects. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 57 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT Saucito control room CORPORATE GOVERNANCE December 2014 December 2017 1 Track Plus Manual and intuitive solution 100x100x100x100 100% of mine sites 100% of miners Tracking 100% of mining vehicles 100% of stopes 2 ProxAlarm Accident provoked by lack of precaution 100x100x100x100 100% of mine sites Prevention FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100% of miners of collisions 100% of mining vehicles and run-over’s 100% of stopes 3 Ventilation Plus Bad ventilation causes: Ventilation optimised all through the mine • accidents that also helps to: • low productivity and • Comply with NOM-023-STPS. • more energy consumption. • Better quality of life. • Save up to 20% in energy. 4 Intelligent Plant Automated plants but not optimised; Automated and optimised plants; reduction no control of inherent variability of ore, of 5% in reagent consumption; increment causing loss of value. of +3% in recovery and metallic content. 5 MineOps Optimiser Low productivity caused by late shift Real-time follow up on mining operations. results detection. Batch processes. Optimising task assignment and achieving a 2-5% increase in productivity. 6 Smart Ops Manual processes for daily operations. Real time monitoring and productive Based on multiple Excel sheets causing processes analysis. Efficient multi-dimensional poor and late analysis. analysis for on-time decision making. 7 One View Manual adjustments for the strategy One strategic dynamic and centralised operation. (Based on Excel and control scorecard. ‘Single version of batch processing.) the truth’ capability. 58 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 1 Review of Operations Mines in Operation Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Zacatecas Fresnillo In operation since: 1554 Mine life (years): 9.4 (2015: 8) Facilities: Underground mine and flotation plant Milling capacity (2016): 8,000 tpd/2,640,000 tpy Fresnillo is one of the Workforce: 980 employees, 1,703 contractors world’s oldest continuously operating mines; it 2016 2015 % change produced 32% of the Mine production Group’s total silver in 2016 Ore milled (kt) 2,373 2,410 (1.5) and generated 18.7% of Silver (koz) 15,865 15,612 1.6 total adjusted revenue. Gold (oz) 42,421 34,120 24.3 Lead (t) 21,326 16,248 31.3 Zinc (t) 25,898 19,029 36.1 Silver ore grade (g/t) 227 220 3.0 Total reserves Silver (moz) 205.5 201.6 1.9 Gold (koz) 600 525 14.3 Avg ore grade in reserves Silver (g/t) 258 296 (12.8) Gold (g/t) 0.75 0.77 (2.6) Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) 184 231 (20.3) Total resources Silver (moz) 798.2 747.0 6.9 Gold (moz) 1.71 1.62 5.5 Avg ore grade in resources Silver (g/t) 341 359 (5.0) Gold (g/t) 0.73 0.78 (6.4) Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) 95 122 (22.1) Key developments in the year to an annual average of 3,929 metres per and a lower cut-off grade. Silver contained Silver production increased 1.6% over month. Notwithstanding, dilution rates in ore reserves increased slightly, with ore 2015 as a result of regained access to improved in 2016. For 2017, we expect grade decreasing as a reflection of lower higher grade veins at the San Alberto and that development rates will again increase exploration grades and cut-off grades. San Carlos areas, offset by lower volume to 4,500 metres per month and reach of ore processed. This was due to reduced a sustained rate of 4,800 metres per Capital expenditures availability of equipment and a temporary month by year end, with an increase Total capex allocation in 2016 was shortage of skilled personnel in the second in ore throughput of approximately 5%, US$52.8 million, mainly for mine and third quarters of the year. an average silver ore grade of around development, sustaining capex and hoist 230 g/t, and a 7-10% increase in silver and conveyor equipment for the San We continued to see an improvement production at this mine. Carlos shaft deepening. In 2017, capex in the grades and production levels will largely be allocated to mining works, compared to 2015, although at a slower The optimisation project to increase sustaining capex and ongoing deepening pace than planned. Silver ore grade plant capacity to 9,000 tonnes per day of the San Carlos shaft, which will reduce averaged 227 g/t in 2016, below the moved forward in the year. We continued haulage costs and increase access to ore anticipated 240 g/t, due to the extraction to evaluate the optimal layout for reserves at deeper levels of the mine. of ore at stopes with higher zinc content additional flotation cells and the zinc but lower silver grades. This was the result thickener, which will process higher zinc Adjusted revenue, excluding inter-segment of the natural increase of zinc grades at the grades found at depth and thereby sales, increased 20.1% to US$382.7 million deeper areas of the mine and the limited maximise recovery rates. This, together due to the 10.3% increase in our realised flexibility to mine. with the installation of vibrating screens, price of silver. is expected to result in additional annual Development reached a rate of 4,500 average production of three moz of silver Productivity decreased due to the lower metres per month at the beginning of once commissioned in 2019. volume of ore processed, combined with the year but the lack of necessary higher number of personnel brought in to infrastructure resulted in the reallocation The increase in silver contained in mineral increase preparation and development at of resources to address this issue; thus resources was generated by positive the mine. Cost per tonne decreased 8.9% development rates were scaled back exploration results at lower silver grades to US$43.9 in 2016 mainly as a result of the Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 59 Financial performance 2016 objectives FRESNILLO TODAY Financial highlights 2016 2015 % change • Increase rate of development to 4,500 metres per month. Adjusted revenue (US$m) 382.7 318.6 20.1 • Advance engineering for plant Adjusted production costs (US$m) 104.3 116.2 (10.2) optimisation project, and place orders Segment profit (US$m) 224.2 150.0 49.5 for long delivery time equipment. Capital expenditure (US$m)* 52.8 205.6 (74.3) • Continue deepening of San Carlos Exploration (US$) 14.4 10.1 42.6 shaft. Productivity (tonnes milled/person) 884 911 (3.0) • Move forward with tailings dam expansion by concluding Cost per tonne (US$) 43.9 48.2 (8.9) land acquisition. Cash cost ($/oz silver) 2.1 5.6 (62.5) Margin ($/oz) 15.1 10.0 51.0 2016 performance STRATEGIC REPORT Margin (expressed as % silver price) 87.8% 64.0% • Development rate peaked at * Capex in 2015 included US$150m from San Julián. 4,520 metres per month but averaged 3,929 metres per Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs US$ US$ $382.7m $104.3m month on an annualised basis. • Detailed engineering continued for plant optimisation; equipment orders not yet placed. • Deepening of the San Carlos shaft continued. Key Key • Expansion of tailings dam Gold12.2% Personnel20.0% commenced following Silver65.5% Maintenance15.0% land acquisition. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Lead9.6% Operating Zinc12.7% Materials20.5% Diesel2.2% 2017 objectives Electricity 11.7% • Develop infrastructure at the Contractors25.1% lower levels of the mine sufficient Freight0.5% Other5.0% to increase development rate to 4,800 metres per month. • Commence work on plant optimisation. • Continue deepening of San Carlos shaft. • Continue tailings dam expansion. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.7% devaluation of the Mexican peso/ Business unit risks Description of risks US dollar exchange rate and lower diesel 1. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over and electricity prices, together with lower Severe a period of time. maintenance costs resulting from the 2. Actions by the union or deterioration in relations 9 maintenance delays; and a decrease in the 3 1 with the union. cost of operating materials mainly due to 10 2 3. Safety incident that impacts the physical integrity lower consumption of steel balls and liners 6 4 of employees/collaborators, including: explosion, trapping, electrocution, being struck by falling for the mill. This was partly offset by higher 8 5 rock, insect bites, falls, etc. 7 contractor costs resulting from the increased Impact 4. Theft of inventory, assets, materials (including number of contractors hired to accelerate explosives) and equipment. development and preparation of the mine; 5. Mining development delay caused by the low and higher personnel costs due to increased efficiency of the shot or blasting for development. headcount and the 5% rise in wages in 6. Insufficient ventilation compromising operational Mexican pesos to unionised personnel. continuity or causing physical damage to personnel and equipment. Very low Cash cost per silver ounce decreased 7. Personnel may leave the Company or the 62.5% to US$2.1 (2015: US$5.6). Margin Company may not be successful in the Likelihood recruitment of personnel required. per ounce increased 51.0% to US$15.1 and expressed as a percentage of silver Unlikely Almost certain 8. Faults and failures due to lack of maintenance. price increased to 87.8% in 2016, from 9. Environmental incidents that affect the operation of the business unit, the health of the community 64.0% in 2015 (see page 106). (directly or indirectly) and adversely impact the environment. For example: collapse or overflow Social and sustainability highlights of tailings dams, heap leach collapse. We organised our first safety festival 10. Major mechanical failure, fire, explosion or any attracting 12,000 people in the Fresnillo catastrophe resulting in operational interruption for reasons attributable to the people. District to raise awareness and strengthen our safety culture. See pages 76-99 for more detail. 60 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 1 Review of Operations continued Mines in Operation continued Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Zacatecas Saucito In operation since: 2011 Mine life (years): 5.9 (at 7,800 tpd capacity) (2015: 5.2 at 7,500 tpd capacity) Facilities: Underground mine and flotation plants Milling capacity (2016): 7,800 tpd/2,600,000 tpy Saucito is one of the Group’s most important Workforce: 773 employees, 1,337 contractors assets, contributing 44% 2016 2015 % change to total silver production in Mine production 2016 and generating 25.8% Ore milled (kt) 2,635 2,339 12.7 of total adjusted revenue. Silver (koz) 21,946 21,984 (0.2) Gold (oz) 86,198 84,884 1.5 Lead (t) 20,935 20,740 0.9 Zinc (t) 23,498 21,023 11.8 Silver ore grade (g/t) 303 327 (7.6) Gold ore grade (g/t) 1.39 1.42 (2.7) Total reserves Silver (moz) 123.2 130.7 (5.7) Gold (koz) 860 730 17.8 Avg ore grade in reserves Silver (g/t) 245 313 (21.7) Gold (g/t) 1.72 1.75 (1.7) Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) 173 224 (22.8) Total resources Silver (moz) 421.5 373.7 12.8 Gold (moz) 2.1 1.8 16.7 Avg ore grade in resources Silver (g/t) 267 283 (5.7) Gold (g/t) 1.31 1.36 (3.7) Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) 113 134 (15.7) Key developments in the year The 2017 drilling programme is focused Adjusted revenues at Saucito increased Annual silver production remained stable on a balance of further resource generation by 12.7% to US$528.0 million mainly as a at 21.9 million ounces in 2016. This was and of infill drilling aimed at upgrading result of the higher precious metal prices. mainly due to higher volumes of ore the resource category into reserves. The mine’s contribution in consolidated processed from the Jarillas West and silver revenues contributed 48.5% in 2016 Central areas, and increased milling The deepening of the Jarillas shaft from (2015: 51.3%), but remained as the main capacity following the installation of 630 metres to 1,000 metres is expected contributor to consolidated silver revenues. the vibrating screens and other minor to commence in 2H 2017. This project aims Gold remains an important revenue driver technology improvements at the Saucito II to provide access to the deeper reserves for the mine, contributing 18.5% to Saucito’s plant, allowing it to reach a processing in the Jarillas vein. In addition, development revenue (2015: 18.5%) and representing capacity of 7,800 tonnes per day by year rates are expected to increase to 4,000 8.6% of the Group’s gold revenues. end, exceeding out 2016 objective of 7,500 tpd so as to install additional ramps and tonnes per day. These factors more than prepare future production areas. Despite the 12.7% increase in ore milled, offset the expected return to normal silver productivity decreased in the year as a ore grades after mining extraordinarily Capital expenditures result of the greater number of workers high grade ore from the Mesquite vein and Capital expenditures in 2016 totalled and contractors hired to increase exhausting the high grade development US$102.4 million, primarily allocated to preparation and development rates. ore during 2015. in-mine development and sustaining capex, the installation of the vibrating screens at Cost per tonne decreased 13.4% Silver reserves decreased as a result Saucito II, construction of the Pyrites plant to US$36.8 mainly as a result of the of less infill drilling as more time was and deepening of the Jarillas shaft. In 2017, favourable effect of the exchange rate, assigned to parametric drilling to increase capex will primarily be allocated to the the economies of scale obtained from the resources. Silver grades decreased due ongoing increase of development rates, increased ore throughput and to a lesser to mineralisation containing lower silver deepening of the Jarillas shaft and the extent, the lower diesel and electricity grades and higher base metal grades. Gold construction of the Pyrites plant prices, lower maintenance costs and a reserves and resources increased due to (see page 70). decrease in the cost of operating materials. additional gold found in the Jarillas vein. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 61 Financial performance 2016 objectives FRESNILLO TODAY Financial highlights 2016 2015 % change • Technical adjustments to Saucito II to increase overall capacity to Adjusted revenue (US$m) 528.0 468.4 12.7 7,500 tpd. Adjusted production costs (US$m) 96.8 99.4 (2.6) • Convert resources into reserves. Segment profit (US$m) 363.8 295.2 23.2 • Obtain ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Capital expenditure (US$m) 102.4 108.3 (5.4) & Clean Industry certifications. Exploration (US$) 16.4 8.6 90.7 Productivity (tonnes milled/person) 1,249 1,489 (16.1) 2016 performance Cost per tonne (US$) 36.8 42.5 (13.4) • Concluded installation of vibrating Cash cost ($/oz silver) (0.4) 1.2 (133.4) screens and reached milling capacity of 7,800 tpd by year end. Margin ($/oz) 17.6 14.4 22.2 STRATEGIC REPORT • Drilling programme focused on Margin (expressed as % silver price) 102.2 92.6 generating additional mineral resources at depth (Jarillas deep). • Changed course of action to pursue Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs US$ US$ $528.0m $96.8m integrated certification (ISO 14001/ OSHAS 18001), with progress at 90% at year end; Clean Industry certification still in progress. 2017 objectives Key Key • Increase development rates to Gold18.5% Personnel11.8% 4,000 metres per month to Silver66.5% Maintenance7.3% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE maintain current production levels. Lead6.8% Operating Zinc8.2% Materials15.6% • Continue construction of the Diesel  0.8% Pyrites plant. Electricity 11.1% • Deepening of the Jarillas shaft. Contractors47.5% Freight  0.7% • Convert resources into reserves. Other  5.2% • Obtain integrated ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 certification and Clean Industry certification. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This was partly offset by increased Business unit risks Description of risks development recorded as costs in the 1. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over income statement, whereas in 2015 a Severe a period of time. greater portion was capitalised; as well 2. Unexpected presence of water in areas of the as a larger number of contractors and operation. 8 3 personnel to increase development rates 2 1 3. Environmental incidents that affect the operation 6 and volumes of ore hauled. 9 7 4 5 of the business unit, the health of the community (directly or indirectly) and adversely impacts the 10 environment. For example: collapse or overflow Cash cost per silver ounce decreased of tailings dams, heap leach collapse. Impact to -US$0.4 per ounce (2015: US$1.2 per 4. Failure/lack of availability or delays in obtaining silver ounce) due to the by-product credits. access to land (ejidos). Margin per ounce increased to US$17.6 5. Insufficient ventilation compromising operational in 2016 (2015: US$14.4), whilst expressed continuity or causing physical damage to personnel and equipment. as a percentage of silver price, the margin increased from 92.6% to 102.2% 6. Safety incident that impacts the physical integrity Very low of employees/collaborators, including: explosion, (see page 106). trapping, electrocution, being struck by falling rock, insect bites, falls, etc. Social and sustainability highlights Likelihood 7. Actions by the union or deterioration in relations Our Saucito and Fresnillo operations were Unlikely Almost certain with the union. recognised with the Healthy Company 8. Mined reserves replacement is not sufficient to award that Mexican health authorities maintain mining operations. for the implementation of best practice 9. Theft of inventory, assets, materials (including in occupational health and preventive explosives) and equipment. care. See pages 76-99 for more detail. 10. Projects that cannot be delivered on time, on budget and according to specifications planned. 62 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 1 Review of Operations continued Mines in Operation continued Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Durango Ciénega In operation since: 1992 Mine life (years): 10.0 (2015: 10.0) Facilities: Underground mine, flotation and leaching plant Milling capacity (2015): 4,000 tpd/1,340,000 tpy Ciénega is a gold mine with Workforce: 469 employees, 340 contractors a strong secondary profile in silver. 2016 2015 % change Mine production Ore milled (kt) 1,275 1,329 (4.1) Silver (koz) 5,131 4,828 6.3 Gold (oz) 72,851 85,662 (15.0) Lead (t) 5,883 5,425 8.4 Zinc (t) 7,450 5,970 24.8 Silver ore grade (g/t) 143 129 11.2 Gold ore grade (g/t) 1.84 2.07 (11.2) Total reserves Silver (moz) 66.3 69.2 (4.2) Gold (koz) 820 810 1.2 Avg ore grade in reserves Silver (g/t) 162 162 Gold (g/t) 2.00 1.89 5.8 Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) Multiple Multiple Total resources Silver (moz) 159.2 152.3 4.5 Gold (moz) 1.6 1.5 6.6 Avg ore grade in resources Silver (g/t) 132 163 (19.0) Gold (g/t) 1.34 1.62 (17.3) Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) Multiple Multiple Key developments in the year positive exploration results from these Capital expenditures Annual gold production decreased 15.0% veins, we intend to intensify their Capex in 2016 included development, as a result of the anticipated depletion of exploration and development in 2017 and sustaining capex and expansion of the higher ore grade veins at the main Ciénega will also initiate an exploration programme tailings dam. Budgeted capex for 2017 mine, lower gold grades at the Rosario at the Manzanillas Cluster. These activities will mainly be allocated to mining works, and Las Casas veins, increased dilution will help us to define the optimal milling sustaining capex, construction of the due to narrower veins, and a 4.1% decrease capacity as well as determine the location third tailings dam, and safety and in ore processed. The latter was due to for a possible expansion in this District (see environmental spending. the extraction of harder mineral from detailed exploration results on page 73). the Rosario, Las Casas and Carmen areas, Adjusted revenue increased to US$185.0 and the dismissal of a contractor at the We expanded capacity by 2.5 million cubic million in 2016 due mainly to higher prices beginning of the year following a fatal metres at the second tailings dam in 2016 of all metals, and increased volumes of accident. Silver production increased 6.3% to support the operations for an additional silver, lead and zinc sold, offset by the due to increased development ore from two years. Construction of the third tailings lower volumes of gold sold. Ciénega the Rosario and Las Casas areas, and dam is expected to commence in 2017 is the Group’s most polymetallic mine, higher silver grades in those veins. once permits have been obtained. as evidenced by the 54.7% contribution from silver, lead and zinc (2015: 47.9%). The development programme at the Gold reserves increased as a result of Rosario and Las Casas veins was intensified further drilling in the Rosario and Casas Productivity decreased as a result of with 537,000 tonnes of ore being area. Gold and silver resources increased the lower volumes of ore processed and processed at Ciénega in 2016, and an as a result of exploration efforts in the a greater number of contractors doing additional 88,000 tonnes from the Taspana Rosario transversal and Taspana veins. non-productive work. Cost per tonne and Tajos veins in the Cebollitas Cluster at Ciénega decreased 11.9% to US$55.5, within the Ciénega District. Following Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 63 Financial performance 2016 objectives FRESNILLO TODAY Financial highlights 2016 2015 % change • Continue exploration at areas of influence. Adjusted revenue (US$m) 185.0 169.5 9.1 • Expand second tailings dam while Adjusted production costs (US$m) 70.7 83.7 (15.5) permits are pending for the third Segment profit (US$m) 100.1 71.1 40.8 tailings dam. Capital expenditure (US$m) 32.7 24.6 32.9 Exploration (US$) 20.0 20.5 (2.4) 2016 performance Productivity (tonnes milled/person) 1,577 1,697 (7.1) • Continued exploration at Rosario Cost per tonne (US$) 55.5 63.0 (11.9) and Las Casas, and began at the Taspana and Tajos veins. Cash cost ($/oz gold) (217.2) 245.5 (192.0) • Concluded expansion of second Margin ($/oz) 1,463.7 881.1 (66.1) STRATEGIC REPORT tailings dam, providing an additional Margin (expressed as % gold price) 117.4 78.2 two years of operating life. 2017 objectives Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs US$ US$ $185.0m $70.7m • Intensify exploration and development of the Taspana and Tajos veins. • Construction of the third tailings dam. • Continue exploration at depth Key Key of the Rosario vein. Gold45.3% Personnel14.3% • Continue evaluation of the Silver42.1% Maintenance11.7% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE expansion of milling capacity Lead5.2% Operating Zinc7.4% Materials22.3% at the Ciénega District. Diesel  1.3% • Commence exploration at the Electricity 6.9% Manzanillas Cluster. Contractors35.2% Freight  2.1% Other  6.2% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS reflecting the positive impact of the Business unit risks Description of risks devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar 1. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over exchange rate; lower energy costs; and Severe a period of time. lower consumption of sodium cyanide. 2 2. Safety incident that impacts the physical integrity These positive effects were partly offset 3 of employees/collaborators, including: explosion, 1 trapping, electrocution, being struck by falling by an increased number of contractors 10 rock, insect bites, falls, etc. and the 5% rise in wages in Mexican pesos 7 4 9 5 3. Electric power outages that stop or slow to unionised personnel. 8 operations business unit. 6 Impact 4. Inefficient handling cycles due to bad roads, Cash cost per gold ounce decreased poor planning. to -US$217.2 as a result of the higher 5. Personnel may leave the Company or the by-product credits. Margin per ounce Company may not be successful in the increased to US$1,463.7 per ounce in recruitment of personnel required. 2016 (2015: US$881.1), and expressed as a 6. Theft of inventory, assets, materials (including percentage of gold prices the margin rose explosives) and equipment. Very low to 117.4% (2015: 78.2%) (see page 106). 7. Mined reserves replacement is not sufficient to maintain mining operations. Social and sustainability highlights Likelihood 8. Failures in the IT environment, including We implemented the Silver Saves Lives Unlikely Almost certain communications infrastructure, servers, applications, telecommunications. programme with rain water harvesting 9. Information security attacks such as hacking or systems in four public schools from our viruses that threaten the continuity of the business mining district. See pages 76-99 for unit (which violates the security environment more detail. on a site logical business unit and take control of the systems). 10. Major mechanical failure, fire, explosion or any catastrophe resulting in operational interruption for reasons attributable to the people. 64 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 1 Review of Operations continued Mines in Operation continued Ownership: Minera Penmont (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Sonora Herradura In operation since: 1997 Mine life (years): 8.6 (2015: 9.2) Facilities: Open pit mine, heap leach and Merrill Crowe plants; dynamic leaching plant (DLP) Workforce: 1,228 employees, 394 contractors Herradura is one of Mexico’s largest open pit gold mines. 2016 2015 % change It produced 55.6% of the Mine production Group’s total gold in 2016 Ore deposited (kt) 25,159 22,875 10.0 and generated 32.1% of total Total volume hauled (kt) 118,841 117,033 1.5 adjusted revenue. Silver (koz) 638 526 21.3 Gold (oz) 520,366 398,866 30.5 Gold ore grade (g/t) 0.71 0.73 (2.9) Total reserves Gold (moz) 5.2 5.3 (1.9) Avg ore grade in reserves Gold (g/t) 0.73 0.79 (7.6) Cut-off grade (g/t Au) Multiple Multiple Total resources Gold (moz) 10.8 6.66 62.2 Avg ore grade in resources Gold (g/t) 0.74 0.82 (9.8) Cut-off grade (g/t Au) Multiple Multiple Key developments in the year average 0.72 g/t. This is expected to Adjusted revenue increased 47.1% to Annual gold production increased 30.5% decrease in subsequent years to 0.64 g/t US$656.1 million reflecting the 34.3% as a result of reducing inventories at the as a higher volume of lower ore grade increase in volumes of gold sold; and to pads to 72 koz of gold. This reduction material, deriving from the pit expansion, a lesser extent, the 10.7% increase in the was possible through the commissioning is processed, with small fluctuations realised gold price. of the second Merrill Crowe Plant in the expected depending on the timing of the DLP during 4Q 2015, which enabled the Centauro Deep project, after which gold Productivity increased compared to the elimination of the bottleneck in processing ore grades will gradually increase again. previous year due to increased volumes of volumes of rich solution coming from the ore and waste hauled by fewer personnel, leaching pads and the DLP. Gold reserves were stable, while gold whereas in 2015, ore was deposited at a resources increased as a result of slower pace to optimise inventory levels at We believe the year end inventory on the exploration and geological modelling the pads given the temporary processing pads of 72 koz of gold is the optimal level efforts, including resources from the capacity constraints. that balances efficiency of the leaching Centauro Deep underground project. process and production costs. No further Ongoing work continues to upgrade Cost per tonne of ore deposited decreased decreases are expected in 2017, thus a the larger resource base into reserves. 10.9% to US$7.7 due mainly to the decrease in gold production compared favourable effect of the devaluation of the to 2016 is anticipated. Capital expenditures Mexican peso and the decline in unit costs Capital expenditures in 2016 totalled of operating materials, together with the The construction of the second line at the US$78.8 million, which included mining additional efficiencies achieved from DLP was approved, with commissioning works, sustaining capex, expansion of the the increased ore throughput, the expected in 2018. This US$110 million second tailings dam and construction of lower maintenance costs and the lower project will increase efficiency as sulphides the second line at the DLP. Capex for 2017 energy costs. found deeper in the pit are processed. will mainly be focused on mining works, sustaining capex, construction of additional Cash cost per gold ounce was US$470.7, Mining work continued at the Valles leaching pads, the second line at the DLP, which represented a slight decrease over underground pilot mine with good results. and land acquisition. 2015. Margin per ounce increased 18.6% Gold ore grades in 2017 are expected to to US$775.8, whilst margin expressed Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 65 Financial performance 2016 objectives FRESNILLO TODAY Financial highlights 2016 2015 % change • Conduct economic evaluation for Centauro Extension; subject to Adjusted revenue (US$m) 656.1 445.1 47.1 Board approval, commence basic Adjusted production costs (US$m) 194.2 198.5 (2.2) engineering and place initial orders Segment profit (US$m) 369.9 219.0 68.9 for second milling line at DLP. Capital expenditure (US$m) 78.8 119.7 (34.3) Exploration (US$) 30.7 11.9 158.0 2016 performance Productivity (tonnes of ore/waste moved/person) 73,250 71,098 3.0 • Began work on a pilot stope as part of ongoing analysis of Cost per tonne (US$) 7.7 8.7 (10.9) various options for the Centauro Cash cost ($/oz gold) 470.7 472.5 (0.4) Deep project. Margin ($/oz) 775.8 654.0 18.6 STRATEGIC REPORT • Decreased inventories at the Margin (expressed as % gold price) 62.2 58.1 leaching pads to 72,000 gold ounces. • Obtained approval and began Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs US$ US$ $656.1m $194.2m construction of second line at DLP. 2017 objectives • Continue construction of the second line at the DLP. • Continue working on the Centauro Key Key Extension to expand the life of mine. Gold98.3% Personnel9.0% Silver1.7% Maintenance21.3% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operating Materials27.0% Diesel20.5% Electricity 3.9% Contractors6.1% Freight  1.8% Other  10.5% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS as a percentage of gold prices rose Business unit risks Description of risks from 58.1% in 2015 to 62.2% in 2016 1. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over (see page 106). Severe a period of time. 2. Accidents occurring while personnel are being Social and sustainability highlights transported. We organised our second Health week 4 1 3. Litigation with adverse outcome to the Company. with UNAM Foundation (National 9 8 5 2 6 3 4. Delay in obtaining permission to use and store University) to provide free dental care and 7 explosives or loss of license. glasses for the our communities. We also Impact 5. Decrease in recovery. partnered with local health authorities in 10 6. Failure/lack of availability or delays in obtaining an indigenous health campaign to conduct access to land (ejidos). bone density studies which are valuable for 7. Projects that cannot be delivered on time, on diagnosis and monitoring of osteoporosis. budget and according to specifications planned. See pages 76-99 for more detail. 8. Inability to obtain necessary water concessions Very low because of government control or private interests. 9. Interruption in the supply of other key operating inputs such as reagents, steel balls, Likelihood diesel, steel drilling. Unlikely Almost certain 10. Personnel may leave the Company or the Company may not be successful in the recruitment of personnel required. 66 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 1 Review of Operations continued Mines in Operation continued Ownership: Minera Penmont (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Sonora Noche In operation since: 2012 Mine life (years): 3.2 (2015: 3.2) Facilities: Open pit mine, heap leach and Merrill Crowe plant Buena Workforce: 429 employees, 424 contractors 2016 2015 % change Mine production We acquired Noche Buena Ore deposited (kt) 17,432 17,400 0.2 in 2008 and commenced Total volume hauled (kt) 81,423 82,373 (1.2) operations as an open pit Silver (koz) 33 73 (54.8) gold mine in 2012. The mine Gold (oz) 182,280 158,179 15.2 is located in the Herradura Gold ore grade (g/t) 0.51 0.50 3.8 District 23 kilometres from Total reserves the Herradura mine. Gold (moz) 0.9 1.0 (10.0) Avg ore grade in reserves Gold (g/t) 0.51 0.56 (8.9) Cut-off grade (g/t Au) 0.25 0.30 (16.7) Total resources Gold (moz) 0.93 1.05 (11.4) Avg ore grade in resources Gold (g/t) 0.51 0.55 (7.3) Cut-off grade (g/t Au) 0.25 0.30 (16.7) Business unit risks Capital expenditures This was partly offset by the increased See Herradura for risks associated with Capital expenditures in 2016 totalled consumption of diesel and sodium all Penmont mines. US$8.6 million, focused on sustaining cyanide; and increased contractor costs. capex, including the construction of Cash cost per gold ounce decreased 21.3% Key developments in the year leaching pad #6 to guarantee operational to US$765.9. Margin per ounce increased Annual gold production increased 15.2% continuity. Spend in 2017 will also mainly to US$480.6, and margin expressed as a over 2015 due to a higher overall speed of be in sustaining capex, including leaching percentage of gold price rose from 13.7% recovery resulting from new mineral layers pad #7 and the implementation of in 2015 to 38.6% in 2016 (see page 106). at the leaching pads in conjunction with a collision-prevention technology. the higher ore grade. Social and sustainability highlights Adjusted revenues at Noche Buena Noche Buena obtained the Cyanide We remained focused on improving increased 24.3% to US$225.8 million, Code Certification. See pages 76-99 efficiency and reducing costs, which reflecting the higher volumes of gold for more detail. included increasing the useful lifetime sold and the higher prices in 2016. of vehicle components and tyres through enhanced monitoring and Productivity increased as a result of preventive measures. similar volumes of ore and waste material moved by fewer personnel. Cost per In 2017, it is expected that the average gold tonne at this mine decreased 5.9% to ore grade at Noche Buena will be around US$7.5 mainly due to the devaluation 0.49 g/t. Ore grades through the life of of the Mexican peso and the decrease the mine are expected to average 0.51 g/t. in unit costs of operating materials and Gold reserves and resources decreased as maintenance of haulage trucks, together a result of the natural depletion of the pit. with the lower cost of diesel. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 67 Financial performance 2016 objectives FRESNILLO TODAY Financial highlights 2016 2015 % change • Continue implementation of measures to increase efficiency Adjusted revenue (US$m) 225.8 181.7 24.3 and control costs. Adjusted production costs (US$m) 130.1 138.0 (5.7) • Commission expanded smelting Segment profit (US$m) 83.9 26.7 214.2 capacity. Capital expenditure (US$m) 8.6 2.6 230.8 • Obtain International Cyanide Exploration (US$) 1.6 3.7 (56.8) Code certification. Productivity (tonnes of ore/waste moved/person) 95,361 87,717 8.7 2016 performance Cost per tonne (US$) 7.5 7.9 (5.9) Cash cost ($/oz gold) 765.9 972.7 (21.3) • Increased the useful lifetime of vehicle components and tyres. Margin ($/oz) 480.6 153.8 212.5 STRATEGIC REPORT • Expanded smelting capacity. Margin (expressed as % gold price) 38.6 13.7 • Obtained International Cyanide Code certification. Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs • Discovered new gold mineralisation US$ US$ $225.8m $130.1m to the east of the mine. 2017 objectives • Maintain comparative low cash cost profile. • Continue exploration in area Key Key of influence. Gold99.8% Personnel4.3% Silver0.2% Maintenance12.6% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operating Materials23.1% Diesel20.1% Electricity 1.2% Contractors20.5% Freight  1.2% Other  16.9% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 2 Review of Operations continued Development projects In progress San Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Chihuahua/Durango border Julián Facilities: Underground mine, flotation plant and a dynamic leaching plant Commercial production: 2H 2016 (phase 1)/1H 2017 (phase 2) Anticipated production: Annual average of 10.3 moz silver and 44,000 oz gold Capex: US$515.0 million Indicated and referred resources: 187 moz silver, 810 koz gold About the project The project includes construction of The San Julián silver-gold project is two plants: i) a dynamic leaching plant a cornerstone of the Company’s 2018 to treat ore from the veins, whose design production goals. The geological potential capacity of 3,000 tpd has already been identified in the region thus far may be met and exceeded; and ii) a flotation plant sufficient to establish a new mining district with 6,000 tpd capacity to process ore in the future. from the disseminated body. Average commercial production is estimated at 10.3 moz of silver and 44,000 oz of gold per year, once at full capacity for the life of mine, with cash costs in the lowest quartile of the international cash cost curve. Business unit risks Description of risks 1. Failures/delays in obtaining environmental permits. Severe 2. Projects that cannot be delivered on time, on 1 budget and according to planned specifications. 3. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over 3 a period of time. 6 4. Economic mineral found within narrow veins being 9 9 5 7 8 difficult to exploit. Impact 11 4 2 5. Inability to obtain necessary water concessions 10 due to government control or private interests. 6. Sensitivity to project profitability due to changes in ore grade and metallurgical recovery that may affect the viability of the project. 7. Social behaviours or actions by a group of people taking a stance against mining in the areas of Very low influence of the business unit. 8. The surrounding communities do not provide their support or hinder operations due to complaints Likelihood regarding dust, blasting vibrations, water use. Unlikely Almost certain 9. Late delivery of key equipment to plant by the supplier (mills, pumps, filters). 10. Actions by the union or deterioration in relations with the union (other unions related with the transportation of concentrates). 11. Environmental incidents that affect the operation of the business unit, the health of the community (directly or indirectly) and adversely impacts the environment. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 69 Financial performance 2017 priorities FRESNILLO TODAY Financial highlights 2016 2015 % change • Commission the flotation plant in 2Q 2017. Adjusted revenue (US$m) 67.4 – – • Install vibrating screens at the Adjusted production costs (US$m) 20.4 – – leaching plant to achieve an average Segment profit (US$m) 42.2 – – of 4,000 tpd milling capacity by Capital expenditure (US$m) 134.1 – – year end. Exploration (US$) 0.3 – – • Deploy efficiency teams to reduce costs, with a focus on drilling Productivity (tonnes milled/person) 499.5 – – methods. Cost per tonne (US$) 48.3 – – • Identify long-term sources of Cash cost ($/oz silver) (0.5) – – water for industrial use. Margin ($/oz) 17.7 – – STRATEGIC REPORT Margin (expressed as % silver price) 102.9 – – Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs US$ US$ $67.4m $20.4m Key Key Gold52.2% Personnel1.2% Silver47.8% Maintenance6.2% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operating Materials27.6% Diesel1.0% Electricity 7.9% Contractors44.4% Freight  1.2% Other  10.6% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key developments in 2016 of silver and 30,000 oz of gold. rainfall, high rotation of contractor The construction of phase I at the San This reflected the ramping up of personnel due to the project’s remote Julián project was completed on budget, production ahead of plan and the higher location and delays in the delivery of though at a slight delay due to contractors fourth quarter silver ore grade of 181 g/t certain equipment. rectifying a problem at the mill. Since vs. 175 g/t anticipated for 2H 2016. ramping up, milling capacity surpassed Cost per tonne was US$48.3 and cash Capex spend in 2016 was US$134.1 million, the 3,000 tpd design and was achieving cost –US$0.47 per silver ounce. Ore with total spent as of December 2016 3,600 tpd by year end. Production above grades, cost per tonne and cash costs reaching US$479.8 million. The remaining planned capacity was achieved through in the start-up phase of the mine are US$35.2 million of the budget will be spent a combination of the following factors: not representative of performance in 2017. processing ore from production stopes and at full capacity. the stockpiled ore from the pre-operative Social and sustainability highlights phase; optimisation of the milling process A fatality at the beginning of the year We supported small community with the installation of additional pumps accelerated and intensified efforts entrepreneurs and launched the Silver for the SAG mill; and closing the drilling to train personnel and develop longerSaves Lives programme with activities to pattern for blasting, thus reducing the term onboarding procedures for mine engage and raise environmental awareness. size of the material sent for processing. employees. Silver production was 2.1 moz, gold Commissioning of the flotation plant production was 31,397 oz, both above (phase II) was delayed from year-end 2016 the anticipated production of 2.0 moz to 2Q 2017 as a result of unusually high 70 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 2 Review of Operations continued Development projects continued In progress Pyrites Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Zacatecas, Fresnillo District Plant Facilities: Leaching plant Commercial production: 1H 2018 Anticipated production: Annual average of 3.5 moz silver and 13,000 oz gold Capex: US$155.0 million About the project We resumed the Pyrites plant project 2017 priorities and proceeded with equipment orders • Dismantle equipment at current and construction. This facility is expected tailings plant. to improve overall recoveries of gold and • Continue construction of the silver by processing historical and ongoing Pyrites plant. tailings from the Fresnillo and Saucito mines, which would have been lost. The plant will froth float pyrite concentrates Key developments in 2016 that will be leached in a 2,000 tpd We completed detailed engineering works dynamic leaching plant and Merrill Crowe for this project, obtained environmental plant to produce precipitates. Production permits, commenced preparation of the is expected to total an average of 3.5 moz site and placed orders for major equipment. silver and 13,000 oz gold per year, and advances our objective to maximise production in the Fresnillo District. Business unit risks Description of risks 1. Event which involves a leakage or spillage of Severe cyanide or SO2 which as a result of its chemical 1 properties, could generate an event of major consequence on the premises of the business unit and/or in the nearby area. 3 2. Inexperience in the operation of a Pyrite flotation 4 plant as it is the first time this type of process will have been performed. 3. The surrounding communities do not provide Impact 2 5 their support or hinder operations (social license 6 for operation) due to community complaints 7 regarding operations e.g. dust, blasting vibrations, noise, pollution, water use. 4. Risk of incidents during transportation of iron concentrate from the Fresnillo tailings plant to the leaching plant (possible environmental Very low impact to the local communities). 5. The challenge faced in fine grinding to such small sizes (10 to 20 microns) to ensure Likelihood metallurgical recovery. Unlikely Almost certain 6. Failures/delays in obtaining the required environmental permits (e.g. MIA, CUS, ETJ). 7. Limited capacity of electricity supply; with this new project the Fresnillo District will reach its limit. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 71 3 Exploration FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our consistent investment in exploration Reserves and resources supports a healthy project pipeline, which To estimate resources and calculate 2016 highlights is core to our growth strategy and a key reserves, we again used the 2012 edition • Total risk capital invested in element in extending mine life. We rely of the JORC code. The gold price used for exploration was US$137.9 million, on an experienced team of 80 geologists resources and reserves was US$1,250.00 an 8.9% decrease compared to 2015. and more than 300 paid local community per oz (US$1,150.00 in 2015); resources in • Exploration was mainly focused members to carry out our exploration work. open pits were estimated at US$1,400.00 on areas of influence at current We routinely apply advanced geospatial, per oz (US$1,300.00 in 2015) to allow operating mines and key geochemical and geophysical technologies for long-term design flexibility. The silver exploration sites. such as tomographic imaging, highprice used for resources and reserves resolution satellite imagery, airborne and was US$17.50 per oz (US$15.00 in 2015). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS core hyperspectral technologies, and Gold and silver resources were increased hand-held and down-hole instruments due to these price considerations and 2017 outlook as an aid to improving the geologic drilling results at our six operations, and • Risk capital of around US$160 interpretations that guide exploratory at the Guanajuato, Juanicipio and Pilarica million was approved for 2017, drilling leading to ore discovery. projects. Reserves at the operations of which about US$8 million is remained broadly stable, with exploration estimated to be capitalised, with Focus: Discovery and potential acquisition drilling and development replenishing the 36% of the budget to be spent in of large, low-cost silver and gold ore ore mined in the year. operating mines, 22% in advanced bodies in Latin America. exploration projects and the remaining 42% on projects Criteria: Minimum potential of 100 moz and prospects. of silver or two moz of gold equivalent; strict requirements regarding ore grades, metallurgical recoveries, extraction costs, environmental impact and community support. Prospects in current districts are prioritised due to known external risk factors and potential of economic benefit through shared infrastructure. 72 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Review of Operations continued 3 Exploration projects and prospects: current districts Fresnillo District Herradura District Juanicipio Centauro Deep Ownership: 56% Fresnillo plc, 44% MAG Silver Corp Ownership: Minera Penmont (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Zacatecas, 8km SW of the Fresnillo mine Location: Sonora, below the Centauro main pit at Herradura Indicated and inferred resources (attributable): 138.7 moz silver, Indicated and inferred resources: 830 koz gold 772,000 oz gold 8,340 metres of diamond drilling was carried out in the second During 2016, 30,944 metres were drilled resulting in a 33.7% half of the year looking for extensions of Valles and Santa Isabel and 9.9% increase in gold and silver resources, respectively. high grade ore bodies. Analysis of the Centauro deep structural This was a result of a 38.9% increase in tonnage and a 3.8% model was undertaken in order to refine the characteristics of the and 20.8% reduction in the grades of gold and silver, respectively. mineralised ore bodies; re-logging and sampling were performed The priorities for 2017 are to continue exploration at depth in order to help this process. in conjunction with new objectives through a 20,000 metre drilling programme. This joint venture with MAG Silver will Other sites be developed on a stand-alone basis. Tajitos Other sites During 2016, 17,172 metres of reverse circulation drilling was performed, 520 metres of diamond drilling and 1,000 metres Coyotes using a wider (PQ) diameter for metallurgical column testing 13,090 metres of drilling was carried out during 2016. Approval within the Centre for Research and Technological Development. to explore on additional properties was granted, so that in 2017, Currently there is an estimated resource of 355,000 oz Au at a we expect to expand the drilling areas to the east and south cut-off grade of 0.3 g/t Au, using the same mining and processing of the Coyotes vein system. specifications used at Noche Buena. Purchasing of surface land in areas of interest has begun. Minillas De Santa Rosa During the year, 16,043 metres were drilled. An option contract Olivos was signed to explore a 100 hectare claim in the central zone of 13,823 metres of reverse circulation drilling was undertaken the project whose exploratory drilling has already delivered some in the year with several interesting gold-bearing intercepts, interesting interceptions. The plan for 2017 is to continue drilling leaving exploration potential open. A drill programme was to determine the continuity of the mineralised structure and test designed to follow-up the most promising areas, which is its full potential at mineable depths. expected to commence in 2017. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 73 Review of Operations continued Exploration projects and prospects: current districts FRESNILLO TODAY Ciénega District Ownership: Minera La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Durango Cebollitas Cluster STRATEGIC REPORT The development of the Taspana vein reached its western limit, showing continuity of grade at 3.1 g/t gold and 280 g/t silver, maintaining an average thickness of 1.8 metres over a strike length of 700 metres. The construction of the 2.1 kilometres long Hidalgo tunnel was completed reaching the Tajos vein, which has an average grade of 3.4 g/t gold and 475 g/t silver, average width of 0.6 metres and a length of 700 metres. Exploration continues to progress at the Taspana West, Tajos, Malinche and Portilla veins with exploration targeting deeper levels. San Ramón Satellite Mine The continuity of the Bandera vein at depth was confirmed CORPORATE GOVERNANCE through development works; 10,092 metres were drilled in 2016 indicating a small decrease in the grades of gold and silver at deeper levels. A programme of underground core drilling in 2017 will explore deeper levels of the western section of the Bandera vein. Las Casas – Rosario Transversal Development of the Las Casas vein is now complete at the 2180 level, exposing the vein with better grades and widths than expected; core drilling will explore in detail the vein extensions at depth. At the far eastern section of the ore body, mine development has reached the Rosario Transversal shoot, which FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continues to show promise. The 2017 objective is to continue the drilling programme in order to confirm the continuity of the structure at deeper levels where better grades are expected. In 2016, a geological evaluation was completed at the Canelas and Valle de Topia districts. For 2017, parametric drilling programmes in both locations will be implemented once the social and environmental permits have been secured. 74 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Review of Operations continued 3 Exploration projects and prospects: Mexico San Julián District Lucerito Ownership: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Ownership: 55% Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V.; Location: Chihuahua/Durango border 45% Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Indicated and inferred resources: 367 koz gold, 28.7 moz silver Location: Durango (excluding reserves and resources from the mine) Indicated and inferred resources: 2.1 moz gold, 154.6 moz silver Intensive drilling is under way in the southern part of the district, No activity was undertaken during 2016. Looking ahead to 2017, with 40,142 metres collared in 2016. Good results were produced a metallurgical study on the refractory gold and an evaluation of from the La Calera and Ultima Tierra veins with an additional the optimal scenarios from the Preliminary Economic Assessment discovery of a blind vein below Ultima Tierra. The drilling (PEA) are to be completed, while continuing to maintain good intensity will be increased at San Julián Sur in 2017, developing a relationships with the communities. programme which includes initial step-out and infill drilling in all veins in the sector. Additional exploration efforts will be initiated northeast of San Julián, in order to identify favourable locations that may lead to the discovery of additional resources, which in time could increase either the processing capacity or the mine life. Guachichil Orisyvo District Ownership: Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Zacatecas Inferred resources: 1.1 moz gold, 15.9 moz silver Ownership: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) A drilling programme was designed to test the target areas Location: Chihuahua located in the northern sector of the property. An environmental permit application was submitted and, once the permit is received, Measured, indicated and inferred resources: 9.6 moz gold, drilling will commence immediately. 12.3 moz silver A new interpolation of the block model was created adding 6,000 channel samples to the database taken systematically from the exploration audits and crosscuts. Currently resources for both an Candameña open pit and underground operation are being assessed with the prefeasibility study to be updated subsequently. The Las Casas Ownership: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) target, located east of the principal deposit, will be drilled in 2017 in an effort to further increase the resource base. Location: Chihuahua Indicated and inferred resources: 1.3 moz gold, 32.5 moz silver Guanajuato District 13,218 metres of step-out and infill diamond drilling was carried out during the year. Additional gold and silver mineralisation was found in the sulphide and oxide zones in the step-out holes and good continuity of the mineralisation was confirmed with the infill. Going Ownership: Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) forward into 2017, drill-definition of the deposit will continue, with Location: Guanajuato a detailed metallurgical investigation and a PEA using the updated resources will be started. Indicated and inferred resources: 754 koz gold, 59.3 moz silver The Fresnillo holdings are comprised of several gold and silverbearing target areas currently under exploration in this historic district. The most advanced prospects are Opulencia, La Gloria Coneto and La Joya vein systems. During the year, 49,113 metres of diamond drilling was carried out to convert resources to the an Association with indicated category at Opulencia and La Gloria while exploring Orex Minerals Inc. for new veins, as well as increase gold-silver resources at La Joya and Cerro Blanco. The drilling programme and land acquisition After formalising the new joint venture company with Orex will continue into 2017. Minerals Inc., a drill campaign was completed totalling 4,913 metres for the year. The 2017 programme includes a follow-up drilling campaign aimed at defining open ore-shoots along two veins in the district, while continuing to maintain good community relations. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 75 Review of Operations continued Exploration projects and prospects: Mexico FRESNILLO TODAY San Juan Rodeo District Ownership: Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Ownership: Exploraciones Minera Parrena, S.A. de C.V. Location: Zacatecas (100% Fresnillo plc) Indicated and inferred resources: 399 koz gold, 32.0 moz silver Location: Durango Indicated and inferred resources: 1.3 moz gold, 13.5 moz silver Exploration resumed at San Juan in 2016 with intensive rock geochemistry and detailed core and surface geologic mapping, The project is currently on stand-by while negotiations with STRATEGIC REPORT aimed at refining the current Lorena vein models. A number the communities for acquisition of land surface rights advance. of sectors showing good exploration potential were identified As a result, no drilling was carried out. Instead, a district-wide along Lorena, Angeles, and other subsidiary structures. A drill prospection programme was undertaken revealing new areas programme started in 4Q 2016 collaring 1,825 metres with containing gold anomalies. Negotiations regarding land access good results. In 2017, drilling campaigns will continue at the will continue into 2017 and when completed, a step-out, infill and main Lorena-Angeles zone and elsewhere in the district to fully condemnation drilling programme would then be implemented unlock its exploration potential. as well as the evaluation of these new target areas. Guazapares District CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19,302 metres were drilled in 2016, primarily focused on the Don Ese vein in the vicinity of Coeur’s Palmarejo mine. During the year, the Guadalupe vein was found to extend into Fresnillo claims, and intersections of the La Verde, Nación and Portales veins were also hit. Drilling will continue during 2017 aiming to test the exploration potential of these veins and develop a resource base. Exploration projects and prospects: Peru and Argentina FINANCIAL STATEMENTS La Pampa and Pilarica District Santo Domingo Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Districts Location: Ayacucho, Peru Indicated and inferred resources: 54.6 moz silver At the Pilarica prospect, 15,349 metres of drilling was completed At the La Pampa and Santo Domingo prospects, the social permits during 2016 to successfully upgrade and increase the silver were obtained from the communities and environmental impact resource in the near-surface flat-lying mantos. Some drilling also studies were submitted to the authorities. Drilling is expected tested the Santa Cruz and Machucruz veins. The 2017 programme to commence during 1H 2017 at these precious-metals bearing aims at increasing resources in the district by evaluating these veins prospects. veins and the mineralisation at the adjacent Achalla prospect. Argentina A preliminary review of a number of early to advanced stage exploration projects was completed in 2016. A database of potentially available exploration projects in Argentina was developed and prioritised; a systematic review will be undertaken in 2017. 76 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 4 Letter from the Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & Community Relations Committee Our commitment to long-term value Additionally, our Environment, Social and Community relations highlights include: creation is founded upon responsible Governance (ESG) performance was again • A productive second year of mining practices. The Health, Safety, recognised with the inclusion of Fresnillo collaboration with the National Environment & Community Relations plc in the STOXX ESG leaders and the Autonomous University of Mexico (HSECR) Committee evaluates, on behalf Ethibel Excellence Investment Register. (UNAM) Foundation in the provision of of the Board, the Company’s effectiveness free dental treatments and prescription in meeting the sustainability challenge. Health & Safety eyeglasses for our neighbouring Although mining is considered a communities at each of our mines. In 2016, the Committee met in accordance high-risk activity, any accidents, injuries • The Company engaged the support with its terms of reference, and as part of or occupational illnesses whatsoever of municipal authorities for investments our governance agenda we continued to incurred by the Company’s employees into infrastructure projects to benefit monitor progress made towards reaching or contractors are unacceptable. local communities. full maturity of the HSECR System. I am The Company regrets to report three very pleased to report that the HSECR fatalities in 2016 and one in early 2017. Ethical culture System has now reached its full maturity The Committee has instructed In 2016 the Board assigned the HSECR as planned and audited by PwC. management to take decisive action Committee with the task of overseeing to improve safety. A comprehensive the Company’s efforts to embed ethics Root Cause Analysis has been conducted and integrity into organisational culture. in each case and concrete measures The Committee is following up on this area have been taken in order to prevent and looks forward to greater involvement similar accidents. in this important topic. Health & Safety performance highlights In the accompanying report, stakeholders include: are provided with a more detailed view into the Company’s overall HSECR efforts and • Operational areas continued to develop performance in 2016. their skills in simulated emergency response scenarios, with drills at all The Committee will continue to oversee, mining operations. on behalf of the Board, the important • Health & Safety departments mission of reaching our HSECR, culture implemented a new IT system to and ethics goals, always striving towards enhance monitoring and accountability. excellence in all of these matters. Environment We extend our deepest condolences to Environmental stewardship is a the families of the four people who died fundamental component of the in 2016 and early 2017. We will honour their social license. The Committee monitors memory by ensuring that safety continues management’s performance and to be our utmost priority. responsiveness in relation to environmental challenges. Performance highlights include: Yours faithfully, • The Noche Buena mine obtained Arturo Fernández Pérez, its Cyanide Code certification. Chairman • Penmont obtained the second level Health, Safety, Environment and of the Clean Industry certification. Community Relations Committee Community Relations Community trust, based on mutually beneficial relations, is also integral to the social license. Mining brings benefits and contributes to the development of skills in local communities. We expect our personnel to engage with such communities respectfully, making certain that our business practices respect their human rights at all times. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 77 Social and Sustainability Report The Strategic Imperative The fourth pillar of Fresnillo plc’s strategy is sustainable development and FRESNILLO TODAY the responsible operation of our business. The Group’s business model directly incorporates sustainable business practices in the value-creation pyramid, as our license to operate requires a committed, continuous and integrated focus on our people, communities and environment. We believe that mining can and should be compatible with expectations of both economic value creation and social and environmental performance. We also believe that responsible mining enhances our competitive Issue Top 20 non-financial materiality issues advantages: engaging communities from the earliest stages of 1 Cyanide Management exploration and development reduces project risk and supports STRATEGIC REPORT asset values; community support and environmental stewardship 2 Mineral waste management (tailing, waste rock and heaps) can minimise disruptions and ensure operating continuity; and 3 Ethics and Integrity a solid ESG risk profile influences the cost of capital, which is 4 Land acquisitions & resettlements essential to balance sheet flexibility. 5 Safety As outlined herein, our priorities are to eliminate unsafe workplace 6 Government payment transparency conditions and behaviours; improve and maintain the health of our 7 Transparency & Accountability people; minimise the environmental impact of our activities; engage 8 Water stewardship with and support the development of our communities; and secure 9 Occupational health the talent pipeline and ensure a fair and ethical workplace. 10 Soil pollution Materiality 11 Fair remuneration Our current KPIs are based on the aforementioned priorities. 12 Non-mineral waste and hazardous materials management CORPORATE GOVERNANCE However, to ensure alignment with the outcomes of recent 13 Government relations & lobbying materiality assessments amongst our stakeholder groups, we are evaluating key performance and progress indicators 14 Respect the culture and heritage of local communities for future reporting. 15 Employee wellbeing 16 Local employment Non-financial materiality assessments help us better understand 17 Energy the relative importance of non-financial issues to the Company 18 Local procurement (Small and Medium Enterprises) and its very diverse group of stakeholders, with local, regional and global reach. We cannot use a one-size-fits-all approach 19 Acid Mine Drainage (AMD) to conducting these assessments, but rather tailor them to the 20 Union relation profile of the stakeholder considering scope, affiliation and sector (for example, local and global investors, NGOs, universities and Other issues regulators), as well as priority assessments at the local level FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equal remuneration for women and men, Community Human to capture expectations of communities, local authorities, Rights, Biodiversity, Human Rights in the workplace, Effectiveness informal leaders, employees (unionised and non-unionised) of the Mexican Mining Fund, Air emissions (SOx, NOx, PM, etc.), and contractors. The outcomes of our materiality assessment Protection against forced or compulsory labour, Employee will continue to guide our sustainability strategy and streamline recruitment, development and retention, Appropriate disclosure our reporting. Information on matters that are considered of less of information & consultation in new projects, Diversity and nonsignificance and materiality to our stakeholders is available online discrimination, Compliance with international labour standards, at www.fresnilloplc.com Indigenous people rights, Climate change (physical, reputational, regulatory /financial risks), Mine closure, Corruption and bribery, Global and regional assessment Number of hours in the working day and Work-Family balance. 6 16 12 3 1 13 10 4 2 18 15 8 7 Society issue significance 14 9 5 11 19 17 20 Fresnillo’s issue materiality Note: Material issues in blue, other issues in green. 78 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Local priority assessments Human rights (Larger spheres represent greater importance) We respect and support human rights, avoid complicity with abuses, address grievances related to our business activities where relevant and we do not tolerate human rights violations committed by our employees, contractors, or public or private security providers acting on our behalf. Along with the laws of Mexico that protect human rights, we have internal policies and practices to protect the human rights of our communities, employees and contractors, and the Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblowing line to report any concerns. Environmental, livelihood and other community concerns can be reported through our grievance mechanism, or brought to light via our perception studies. We are committed to further integrating human rights considerations into our business practices in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). Our priorities are to: • Develop a specific Human Rights Policy that builds on our Code of Conduct and sustainability policy. Community Formal Informal Unionised Un-unionised Contractors authorities authorities employees employees • Provide guidance to our operations and projects on identifying and addressing salient human rights risks. Water • Better integrate human rights considerations into key Security Wastewater community relations processes such as stakeholder Road infrastructure engagement and the grievance mechanism. Pavement of streets and walkways • Implement human rights due diligence as part of our Social Unemployment Impact Assessments (SIA) or as standalone assessments. Electricity supply Garbage collection and street cleaning Corruption: Transparency in government payments Public lighting Sport and recreational spaces Corruption has been recognised by the United Nations as one of the obstacles to effective promotion and protection of human rights. Mexico ranked 123/176 in the 2016 Corruption Perception Governance Index (CPI) of Transparency International. The Group implements The Board of Directors, through its Health, Safety, Environment anti-bribery and anti-corruption controls, due diligence and ethical and Community Relations (HSECR) Committee, evaluates the training for our people and contractors, and government payments effectiveness of the Company’s policies, action plans and systems are reported annually on our website. regarding HSECR matters. The Committee meets semi-annually to review performance and monitor management’s responses to Integrated Management System key issues. In 2016, the Board assigned the Committee oversight Our Integrated Management System is based on ISO 14001 responsibility of the initiatives to embed ethics and integrity and OHSAS 18001. It is the primary tool to drive continuous into the organisational culture. A letter from the Chair of the improvement and embed safety in our operations, incorporating Committee precedes this report and provides information key safety activities and controls such as risk management, on their work in the year. root cause analysis of accidents, training, operating procedures, performance analysis, etc. It also includes software to support our Remuneration for our senior executives takes sustainability assurance reviews and track the progress of action plans resulting performance into consideration, specifically in the areas of from deficiencies detected. stakeholder relations, teamwork and safety (see Remuneration Report on pages 138-153). The system also ensures effective compliance with environmental regulations and supports initiatives to reduce our environmental Our sustainability strategy is managed through our HSECR footprint, implement the Cyanide Code, Mexican Clean Industry Management System, whose maturity is assessed semi-annually certification and other best practices. Furthermore, the system by PwC on the basis of its strategy, structure, processes, includes operating procedures to safely manage and monitor people and technology. In 2016, we reached our target tailings storage facilities and waste rock piles following best of a fully-integrated management system. practices, and helping our sites comply with applicable regulations in Mexico, as well as policies to reduce and reuse non-mineral and hazardous waste. Key Human Rights Issues for Businesses Operating in Mexico Occupational Health & Safety (Health & Safety sections) Forced labour (People section) Working conditions (People section) Child labour (People section) Unions: freedom of association (People section) Discrimination (People section) Environment (Environment section) Land rights (Community relations section) Corruption: Transparency in government payments Security Source: Country Guide to Human Rights and Business in Mexico published by the Danish Institute for Human Rights. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 79 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We have committed to doing our part at Fresnillo plc by FRESNILLO TODAY In 2015, the United Nations adopted 17 SDGs as part of the 2030 identifying the SDGs most strategically aligned with our impacts, Agenda for Sustainable Development, which align the interests of competencies and priorities, mapping them to our HSECR governments, businesses, NGOs and communities to achieve social framework as set out below. Based on a 2x2 strategy matrix, inclusion, environmental sustainability and economic development. we advance these goals as part of our core business processes, or indirectly through collaboration and leverage. Leverage and collaboration Core Business HSECR PILLAR Most relevant SDGs Enhance Health & Safety SDG 3 – Good Health and Wellbeing Our focus: safe and healthy work environment, risk STRATEGIC REPORT management to prevent accidents and occupational diseases, healthier lifestyles initiatives, community health. Environment SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation; SDG7 – Energy Access and Sustainability; SDG13 – Climate Action; SDG15 – Life on Land Our focus: mitigation and elimination of adverse impacts Mitigate on land and water resources, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. Communities SDG1 – End Poverty; SDG2 – Zero Hunger; SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities; SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Our focus: local jobs and procurement opportunities, profit sharing mechanisms, capacity building and investment in education and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Awards and recognitions entrepreneurship, human Along with our inclusion in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders, rights, anti-corruption, ethics other recognitions this year include: Ethics and Values and transparency initiatives. in Industry from the Mexican Confederation of Industrial Our People SDG5 – Gender Equality; Chambers (CONCAMIN) and the Socially Responsible SDG8 – Decent Work and Company award from the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy Economic Growth (CEMEFI). Industry and standards certifications granted or under application in 2016 are detailed herein under their Our focus: fair hiring, fair relevant categories. remuneration and benefits, gender equality. 80 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Health 2016 objectives • Implement the Health & Safety Information System, Strategy and objectives including contractors. To improve and maintain the health of our people. • Adopt ICMM standard for health KPIs. • Mature our assessment protocol for health-related risks. Approach • Reinforce standardisation of health practices and policies We utilise a pre-emptive approach to identify and manage across our operations. health risks. Preventive care and the promotion of healthier lifestyles can limit certain chronic diseases, enhance overall wellness and fitness for work, reduce the risk of injuries and 2016 performance enhance productivity. While our focus is set on prevention, • Health & Safety staff were and continue to be trained emergency preparedness is a core competence of all our in the use of the new Health & Safety Information System. health teams. We work closely with local authorities and • Health KPI’s suggested by the ICMM are implemented extend our health initiatives to communities as part of our in the Health Information System. support for socio-economic development. • The Health department is currently working on action plans resulting from health related risk assessments. • Corporate staff are supporting and monitoring the progress of business units on hygiene, ergonomic Occupational health and psychosocial issues. 2017 objectives • Increase environmental monitoring of our workspaces to Community Emergency proactively identify any future sources of health hazards. preparedness • Review our operating procedures considering more Health and information from industrial hygiene, notably exposure levels. wellbeing • Strengthen our ergonomic programme through training of our health and safety staff and reviewing workspaces, equipment and procedures. Healthier Preventive lifestyles health and wellness Certifications Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega Penmont Investment in health US$ 10.94m OHSAS 18001 Certified Certification Certified Certified on hold pending the upcoming release of ISO 45000 12.68 Sets out criteria for international best practice in occupational 11.26 10.94 10.34 health and safety management. Healthy Certified Certified Certified Certified Company Certification by Mexican health authorities for the implementation of best practice in occupational health and 2013 2014 2015 2016 preventive care, including the promotion of healthier lifestyles. Smoke-Free Certified Certified Certified Certified Company A prerequisite for the Healthy Company certification. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 81 Occupational health FRESNILLO TODAY We seek to prevent, detect and treat work-related illnesses amongst our employees and contractors. We have a health baseline for every employee entering the workforce, and conduct regular check-ups to help improve their health and screen for occupational diseases. Results from each health visit are securely recorded online to track and analyse the health of employees and contractors over time, and to help inform our approach to occupational health going forward. We utilise Alert-On randomly or methodically, based on the job profile, to detect alcohol and drug usage, as well as to evaluate the fitness of workers in critical activities such as high elevation STRATEGIC REPORT work or in mine shaft elevators, testing vital signs, vision and glucose levels among others. We also monitor blood lead levels for those working in areas with risk of exposure. We are pleased to announce that no new cases of occupational diseases were diagnosed by health authorities during the year. Preventive health, wellness and healthier lifestyles We seek to prevent health-related issues brought on by aging and lifestyle choices, such as lack of exercise, smoking and poor nutrition. Weight management, a widespread issue in Mexico, remains our top priority as obesity may trigger chronic diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure. Our Healthy Lifestyles programme supports good dietary habits and the prevention CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and control of obesity-related diseases. Additionally, we offer employees the following: • Influenza vaccinations. • Vision tests and prescription safety glasses if required. • Free annual health check-ups for employees over 50. • Breast and cervical cancer screening for women. • Access to dental and optometry care, in partnership with the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) Foundation. We launched a campaign to raise awareness of certain diseases in 2016. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS New cases of Disease rate (expressed occupational diseases per 1,000 persons at work) 0 0 0.321 0.234 3 2 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 New cases of occupational diseases: Diseases rate: Occupational disease An illness caused or aggravated by work rates are expressed per 1,000 persons activities or workplace conditions. at work. The number of personnel at work is calculated based on the hours worked. Total personnel = hours worked per year/2000. Recreational park at Fresnillo 82 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 2016 objectives Safety • Implement Health & Safety Information System, including for contractors. • Complete OHSAS 18001 certification process at Saucito. • Mature the Operational Discipline and safety assessments initiatives. 2016 performance • Implemented a new information system to track accidents, support root cause analysis and other key controls. • Certification on hold pending the upcoming release of ISO 45000. • Operational discipline has reached the last stage of its maturity plan. This initiative will be supported by the Information System and it will also be part of the ‘Safety Folder’ initiative. 2017 objectives • Implement our ‘Safety Folder’ initiative to improve compliance and behaviour monitoring across our operations and hierarchy level. • Assign Senior Operation Managers to collaborate with our business units in the follow-up of the implementation of correction measures resulting from root cause analysis of fatal and severe accidents. • Form a group of Safety trainees based on our ‘engineers in training programme’ to secure the talent pipeline. Strategic priority To eliminate unsafe workplace conditions and behaviours. Approach Workplace hazards and risks in our industry include potential rock falls, excessive noise, dust, dangerous chemicals, confined spaces, high temperatures and errors of judgment with implication on safety. Yet we believe that health and safety in the workplace is a human right; moreover, a safe workplace is vital to productivity and morale, and our safety reputation is a key driver of acceptability in our communities. Our approach is to instil a safety culture where our workers and contractors have the knowledge, competence and desire to work safely. We regret to report three fatal injuries in 2016 and one in early 2017. We are committed to implementing the measures necessary to reverse the negative trend in our safety record. Investment in safety US$ 4.36m 5.95 4.26 4.36 3.56 Pump station at Saucito 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 83 Critical and fatal injuries Behavioural change FRESNILLO TODAY For each incident resulting in a critical injury or loss of life, we Human factors are responsible for many incidents and accidents: conduct a root cause analysis to understand the underlying factors rushing, frustration, fatigue and complacency lead to unintentional and determine any remedial actions required. With management errors that increase the risk of injuries on or off the job. We engage oversight, lessons learnt and outcomes from each accident are our workforce via two programmes: communicated across our business units to prevent repeats, and any critical controls are implemented in a timely manner. • STOP (Stop, Think, Observe and Plan), which teaches that We are standardising our approach to accident investigation all accidents can be prevented, promotes risk monitoring for through our information system and training sessions. all processes and emphasises the responsibility of the chain of command to detect and immediately remediate unsafe Risk assessments conditions. We proactively assess and prioritise risks in order to determine • Behavioural Change workshops, facilitated by psychologists operating procedures, equipment, training and controls. Our who provide guidance and counsel on personal issues that situational assessments and legal compliance audits help us may lead to distractions and accidents. STRATEGIC REPORT identify operational non-conformities and to develop specific action plans with clear deadlines and accountabilities. In 2016, Other safety programmes and initiatives we updated our risk analysis for fire events in underground mines. • Operational Discipline, which is structured in phases: making sure safety procedures are available, assuring their quality, Engaging our stakeholders: No More Accidents training and communication, evaluation of compliance and Leadership and engagement continuous improvement; our units are currently focusing We expect our managers, union representatives and contractors on evaluating compliance with procedures. to take a leadership role in our safety culture. Senior staff meet • Rules that Save Lives, part of our effort to embed critical regularly to strengthen accountability and ensure sufficient rules into our safety culture, with regular reviews, updates funding for preventive measures. Our situational assessments and reminders in training sessions and group meetings. evaluate, among other measures, the leadership capabilities • Safety Folder, an initiative to reinforce controls, follow-up of our senior staff. and commitment of supervisors and managers at every level of the Company. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our entire workforce is represented by formal Health & Safety (H&S) Commissions at each business unit, who provide leadership Safety culture in the field by auditing and removing unsafe conditions. H&S Our safety culture is routinely monitored to assess the attitudes, Commissions also investigate the causes of accidents and behaviours and disciplined elimination of unsafe conditions. occupational diseases, determine preventive measures, and monitor compliance. Management, unionised employees and Safe cyanide management contractors are represented in these commissions. Cyanide, widely used in our industry to dissolve gold from its ore in a process called cyanide leaching, can in high concentrations We support our contractors in enrolling in the Mexican Labour be toxic to humans and many living organisms. Responsible Ministry’s voluntary Self-Managed Safety Programme, whose main management of cyanide is critical to ensure the safety of objective is to encourage a self-evaluation culture and continuous our people, contractors, neighbouring communities and improvement. Contractors self-evaluate compliance with national the environment. regulations and develop action plans to correct deviations, while FINANCIAL STATEMENTS we audit their action plans. Companies participating in the We apply strict health and safety measures to prevent any spills programme can significantly reduce the number of mandated and exposure of our workforce to cyanide, and train our response safety inspections and certain tax requirements. teams should any incident occur. The Herradura and Noche Buena mines are certified in the Cyanide Code, which sets out best practices for transporting, storing, using and disposing of cyanide, as developed by the International Cyanide Management Institute (ICMI). See also ‘Cyanide management: environmental aspects’ on page 90. Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) For every 1,000,000 hours For every 1,000,000 hours Key Key 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 49.4 57.8 20.1 45.4 41.8 30.3 27.2 9.9 26.4 25.4 9.1 22.3 8.7 19.4 13.7 13.4 5.6 12.7 2.4 14.2 10.4 3.0 4.8 3.5 4.7 3.0 3.1 9.6 6.6 4.9 3.1 3.8 3.9 6.4 3.4 7.2 6.5 5.0 5.1 2.3 0.0 0.0 1.1 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega Noche Buena Herradura Soledad/ Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega Noche Buena Herradura Soledad/ Dipolos Dipolos 84 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Safety continued Performance indicators Fatalities Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) Accident rate For every 1,000,000 hours 3 0.11 0.11 1.80 1.89 0.09 1.80 3 2 0.04 0.04 0.97 0.69 1 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors. Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors per The number of accidents divided by the total number of 1,000,000 hours worked. employees and contractors. Total Recordable Injury Frequency Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Lost workday rate Rate (TRIFR) For every 1,000,000 hours For every 1,000,000 hours 16.93 26.84 5.99 7.51 0.76 21.12 5.99 16.24 16.93 3.70 0.58 0.62 0.81 0.76 2.18 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 The number of fatalities + lost-time cases + restricted The number of lost-time injuries + fatalities per 1,000,000 The number of days lost to accidents divided by the total work cases + medical treatment + first aid cases per hours worked. number of employees and contractors. 1,000,000 hours worked. Severity rate Duration rate For every 1,000,000 hours 311.71 311.71 52.05 234.40 84.00 183.09 63.39 131.80 52.05 42.86 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Lost work days per 1,000,000 hours worked. Lost work days divided by the total number of lost-time injuries + fatalities. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 85 2016 objectives Environment FRESNILLO TODAY • Set carbon emissions and water targets. Strategic priority • Obtain Clean Industry and ISO 14001 certification at Saucito. To minimise the environmental impact of our activities. • Implement an information system. • Strengthen the mechanism for internal audits of Approach environmental compliance. Mining and processing precious metals, whilst essential industries, consume water, disturb land and produce 2016 performance waste and greenhouse gases in the ordinary course of business. Hence, optimising our use of resources, • We engaged some NGOs and researched target setting curbing the impact of our activities, and being approaches consistent with the United Nations Sustainable transparent and accountable regarding our Development Goals (SDG). environmental footprint are crucial to making mining • Saucito has accomplished 90% of the requirements to STRATEGIC REPORT sustainable and retaining our social licence to operate. get the ISO 14001 and Clean Industry certifications. We recognise that a clean and sustainable environment • The Environment Information System is ready to be is integral to the full enjoyment of human rights. rolled-out. • Environmental plans were evaluated considering the Reporting boundary feedback of the internal assessments. The reporting boundary for environmental certifications and most KPIs includes the following business units: Ciénega, Fresnillo, Saucito and Penmont (Herradura 2017 objectives and Noche Buena). We expect the San Julián mine will • Collaborate with operations to forecast energy and water be incorporated into audited measurements in 2017. demand in order to set carbon emissions and water targets. • Prepare our business units for the Environmental Excellence certification of the Mexican authorities. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Penmont San Noche Certification Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega Julián Herradura Buena ISO 14001 Certified In Certified Starts Certified Certified process in 2017 90% Framework and criteria for an effective environmental management system. Clean Certified In Certified Starts Certified Certified FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Industry process in 2017 90% Certificate granted by the Mexican Environmental Authority to promote environmental audits, compliance with regulations and adoption of best practices. International N/A N/A On hold* Started Certified Certified Cyanide in 2016 Management Code Sets criteria for the global gold mining industry on cyanide management practices. * The process will resume once the mine’s capacity optimisation plan is determined. Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) Before developing any mining project, we conduct EIAs, which identify potential impacts and actions to manage them. EIAs may address the following for potential impact: surface and groundwater resources, water quality, air quality, soils, biodiversity (including threatened or endangered species) landscape and socio-economic conditions. The EIA report, known as environmental impact statement (EIS), is presented to the environmental authorities for their evaluation. 86 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Environment continued Water Water quantity Mining and processing ore require large volumes of water, and We obtain water rights from authorities before using any water in we operate in some arid regions where water is frequently a mining and mineral processing. We respect our water quotas and relevant issue for communities. Hence, securing access and being cooperate with water authorities and other stakeholders, including responsible water stewards are critical success factors. Our water communities, to increase water access. We rely primarily on management approach is based on operational excellence and groundwater (mine water and wells) and municipal wastewater cooperation with stakeholders, notably communities, authorities to supply our operations. and NGOs. We recognise water as a human right and cooperate with communities to increase water access. Our Fresnillo and Saucito operations build resilience using municipal wastewater. Ciénega, located in the mountains upstream, Risk assessment relies on mine water (the ore is below the groundwater table). Our EIAs allow us to understand water resources and their Penmont, located in an arid and low water use region, is supplied vulnerability on a local and regional scale before developing our by wells. The proximity of Penmont to the sea offers an opportunity projects. Responding to the expectations of our stakeholders, to explore the use of seawater. we conduct our evaluation of water risk using the Aqueduct tool from the World Resources Institute (WRI). Water quality and conservation Mining and mineral processing is less sensitive to the quality of Water risk assessment under current conditions incoming water, allowing for the reuse of wastewater or brackish Overall water risk Physical risk quality Physical risk quality Regulatory & reputational risk water, and thereby reducing our water footprint. Additionally our mineral processing facilities use closed water circuits, eliminating the Fresnillo Medium No data High risk Low to need to discharge processed water into water streams. In regards to high medium to the majority of our underground mines, de-watering is required risk risk (draining groundwater by pumping), to allow access to the ore. Saucito Medium No data High risk Low to Unused water is sent to settlement ponds to control suspended to high medium solids before discharging the now cleaned water downstream. risk risk The quality of discharged water is important to downstream users Penmont Medium Low to High risk Low to and ecosystems and as a result we monitor and take action to to high medium medium ensure our discharges respect water quality regulations. We have risk risk risk not detected negative downstream impacts on ecosystems or Ciénega Medium Low to Medium Low to waterbodies due to our groundwater intake or water discharges. to high medium to high medium risk risk risk risk Public policy San Julián Medium Medium Medium Low to We engage public policymakers and other stakeholders through to high to high to high medium the Mexican Chapter of the World Business Council for Sustainable risk risk risk risk Development (CESPEDES) and the Mexican Mining Chamber (CAMIMEX), whose positions and initiatives can be consulted on Physical risk quality considers return flow ratio and upstream protected land; physical risk their websites. Mexico recently reactivated the process to enact quantity considers baseline water stress, inter-annual variability, seasonal variability, flood a new Water Law. Our view is that water policy should foster occurrence, drought severity, upstream storage and groundwater stress; regulatory and efficiency and sustainably of the resource. Key considerations reputational risk considers media coverage, access to water and threatened amphibians. should be: governance, conservation, incentives for efficiency and Water stress considering climate change scenarios (2020 and 2030) reuse, long-term planning and certainty of permits, and flexibility Business as usual Business as usual for water transfers among users and basins. 2020 2030 Pessimistic 2020 Pessimistic 2030 Fresnillo Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase Communities Communities benefit from the availability of water from Saucito Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase our dewatering operations. We believe that cooperation Penmont 1.4x increase 1.4x increase 1.4x increase 1.4x increase with communities helps limit conflicts arising from access Ciénega Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase issues. We also work with municipalities to invest in water and wastewater infrastructure, notably with their mining tax funds San Near normal Near normal Near normal 1.4x increase (see Community Relations pages 95-99). We are committed Julián to building trust with the communities, and have launched an initiative for joint water monitoring. Water stress measures the ratio of total annual water withdrawal to average annual available blue water. This is a commonly used indicator also known as relative water demand. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 87 Statement of water inputs and outputs in megalitres Intensity FRESNILLO TODAY for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 (Reporting boundary excludes San Julián) (Reporting boundary excludes San Julián) Category Element Sub-element 2016 2015 Intensity measurement: (m3/tonne) 2016 2015 Input Surface water Rivers and creeks 0 0 Water input (in m3) per tonne of 0.22 0.25 Groundwater Mine Water 3,512 4,949 mineral processed Bore fields 5,218 5,163 Fresh water Input (in m3) per 0.18 0.22 tonne of mineral processed Ore Entrainment 302 312 Third party Wastewater 1,765 1,200 Total water inputs 10,797 11,624 Water input Output Surface water Discharges 90 130 Megalitres STRATEGIC REPORT Other Water entrained 26 24 Key in concentrates 2015 2016 Total water outputs 116 154 5,971 6,255 1 megalitre = 1,000m 3 2,638 2,797 2,350 Water deviations in megalitres for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 1,006 (Reporting boundary excludes San Julián) 664 739 Category Element Sub-element 2016 2015 Ciénega Fresnillo Penmont Saucito Input Surface water Rivers and 0 0 creeks CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Groundwater Aquifer 14,359 14,129 Sources of water Interception (Dewatering) Key Total water inputs 14,359 14,129 Water waste Output Surface water Discharges 12,428 13,055 Ore entrainment Bore fields Supply to third 802 206 Mine water party (Donation) 10% 16% Loss 1,129 868 3% 3% (evaporation, 44% 48% infiltration, etc.) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total water outputs 14,359 14,129 43% 33% 1 megalitre = 1,000m3 2015 2016 Statement of operational efficiency for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 Note: We calculate our water inventory using the Water Accounting Framework for the Minerals Industry, which has been useful to standardise concepts internally and (Reporting boundary excludes San Julián) benchmark amongst our operations and with other mining companies. The quantities of Unit 2016 2015 water withdrawn are typically measured by flow metres, but at points of withdrawal that may not be equipped with a flow metre, quantities are estimated. (Reporting boundary Total volume to tasks megalitre 57,994 57,197 excludes San Julián.) Total volume of reused water megalitre 46,931 46,537 Reuse efficiency % 80.9% 81.4% Total volume of recycled water megalitre 1,891 1,210 1 megalitre = 1,000m3 88 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Environment continued Climate change & energy Fresnillo plc supports effective, efficient and equitable policies Mining is an energy intensive business. Energy is used at every and prices of carbon. We consider that a policy is effective when stage of the value chain, representing a significant portion of our it meets its reduction targets, efficient when it is cost effective overall costs. Fossil fuels are used in extraction and hauling of ore and equitable when all jurisdictions are contributing to solutions. and waste rock removal, while electricity is used in our processing We believe that carbon policies must be implemented in a manner plants. As ore grade decreases and mining goes deeper, we that is reasonably consistent between jurisdictions so that the risk expect an increase in our energy demand. Given the relation of creating a competitive disadvantage for some emitters does not between energy and greenhouse gas emissions, we also strive to induce carbon leakage. decarbonise our process to mitigate the risks of climate change. Our strategy is based on energy efficiency and progressive With regard to the introduction of a supplemental carbon tax in integration of renewables in our energy portfolio. the state of Zacatecas, we have engaged with state authorities on the economic distortions that could be created by adding the Governance state’s carbon prices on top of the national rate. The Board’s HSECR Committee reviews our performance, risks and opportunities at their biannual meetings with management, who Transparency and disclosure are responsible for integrating climate change into the business We account for and monitor our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and operating strategy. based on an inventory management plan (IMP), a best practice proposed by the Climate Leaders programme of the US Operational and energy efficiency Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). We are developing a Operational excellence and, more specifically, energy efficiency, third party evaluation of the effectiveness of our diesel additives are key to tackling the challenge of deeper mining and lower ore in our open pit mines. We participate in the climate change qualities. Our operating mines set energy efficiency targets each programme of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the year; the open pit operations seek to optimise the truck fleet, use Mexican GHG disclosure programme, GEI Mexico. of diesel additives and waste dumps to reduce haulage distances, while in the underground operations, our initiatives are related Carbon performance to the optimisation of ventilation and measures to reduce ore Global GHG emissions dilution. In 2016, our mineral processing plants began to optimise for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 consumption by reducing electricity usage at peak grid hours. GHG emissions (tonnes of CO2e) Energy (MWhe) We closely monitor technological developments in energy Reporting Comparison Reporting Comparison efficiency for the mines of tomorrow. year year year year 2016 2012 2016 2012 Carbon cost exposure and carbon regulation readiness Scope 1 (direct 452,497 375,121 1,673,146 1,385,448 Mexico has carbon taxes embedded in the price of fossil fuels, emissions): based on a carbon price of US$3.7 per tonne of CO2, with natural Combustion of fuel gas taxed at zero as it is considered the cleanest of fossil fuels. (mobile and The carbon tax is paid by fuel producers and importers as other stationary sources) excise taxes and is generally passed on to consumers. In 2017, Scope 2 (indirect 458,848 329,245 705,963 420,615 Mexico begins a transition from administered prices to market emissions): prices; prices will float following market conditions, with volatility Electricity contained to a target zone with adaptable excise taxes/subsidies. purchased from Complete price liberalisation of fuels is expected in 2018. Recently, the Mexican the government of the Mexican state of Zacatecas, where our National Grid Fresnillo and Saucito operations are located, introduced an (CFE), WindForce additional carbon tax of US$12.5 (MX$250) per tonne of CO2, Peñoles (FEISA) becoming effective in 2017. and Thermoelectric Peñoles (TEP). Mexico launched a year-long simulation of a cap-and-trade system as part of a plan of Mexican authorities to introduce a national Intensity 0.019 0.013 0.049 0.034 carbon market in 2018, which authorities intend to link with measurement: California and Québec. Mexico operates a mandatory emissions Emissions and registry; our experience with voluntary reporting has proven energy reported valuable to compliance with this regulation. above per tonne of mineral processed. We do not expect climate change regulations to reduce demand for gold, although there may be an increase in demand for lead, Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the zinc and silver for applications in renewables. Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. These sources fall within our operational control. We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in our Consolidated Statement. We have Public policy and preparedness for the physical impacts used the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). As with water stewardship, we engage public policymakers and other stakeholders through the Mexican Chapter of the World Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity. Business Council for Sustainable Development (CESPEDES), (Reporting boundary excludes San Julián.) whose positions and initiatives can be consulted on their website. The most significant climate change impacts for our Company relate to water. See pages 86-87 for a more detailed discussion of our water usage and conservation efforts. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 89 Investment in environment Energy – GHG profile Waste management FRESNILLO TODAY US$ 3.20m Our operations produce mineral waste and, in much smaller proportion, non-mineral hazardous waste. The global trend of Key lower ore grades will increase mineral waste over time, especially Electricity from FEISA (wind) in open pit mining. We recognise that responsible management of Electricity from TEP Electricity from National Grid waste is essential to protect the health and safety of communities, Combustion of Fossil Fuels the quality of the environment and our reputation. We are (contractors) committed to safe management of wastes, paying great attention 3.20 Combustion of Fossil Fuels to the structural and chemical stability of our mineral waste 1% 0% storage facilities. 11% 29% 17% 2.09 Mining waste 1.90 23% 20% Mining operations remove waste rock to access the ore. 1.26 48% 16% This primarily incorporates either the overburden (rock or soil STRATEGIC REPORT 35% overlaying a mineral deposit) of open pit operations, or gangue (the rock or mineral occurring with the metallic ore but of no commercial value) excavated in underground works to access 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy GHG the ore. Most mining waste is transported and deposited in waste piles for permanent storage, though some waste rock is used in underground cut and fill operations. The majority of the Company’s Energy use Energy intensity mineral waste is generated by the open pit operations at Penmont GWhe MWhe per tonne and deposited in waste rock piles. Reclamation usually consists of of mineral processed 0.050 re-contouring and restoring native plants and vegetation to ensure Key long-term stability. Scope 1 Scope 2 Processing waste In our processing facilities we reduce the ore to the size of sand CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and silt to form a slurry, which goes through a cyanide leaching 706 process to extract the desired metals, or a flotation process to 673 577 0.048 0.050 0.050 0.050 concentrate the ore for its transportation to a metallurgic complex. 433 1,756 Tailings, the fine ore gains that remain in the slurry at the end of 1,586 1,648 1,410 the process, are generally considered a processing waste since their metal content makes further processing uneconomical; however, they may also be used as input for tailing processing plants for further recovery of metals, as is the case in our Pyrites 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 plant under development (see page 70). Tailings are pumped from the plants to sedimentation ponds, GHG emissions GHG intensity known as tailing dams, for safe storage. The decanted water, Kt of CO2e Tonnes of CO2e per tonne released by the sedimentation of tailings, is harvested and pumped FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of mineral processed back to the processing plants. We have no mining operations 0.020 Key with riverine tailings disposal discharge tailings in nearby rivers. Scope 1 Scope 2 Tailings Storage Facilities (TSFs) Tailings management is a key concern for the mining industry. While very rare, recent tailings incidents in the industry have served as a reminder of how critical these structures are. We are 458 fully committed to addressing the expectations of our stakeholders 412 0.018 0.019 375 0.017 0.020 to build and operate TSFs responsibly. 325 422 474 Our tailings dams are designed and built following the 362 412 hydrological, geotechnical and structural design requirements of the Mexican authorities to resist extreme weather and seismic 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 events. We pay particular attention to the chemical stability of the tailings, so the quality of any seepage does not represent a danger to human health or the environment. We keep strict control of the water balance to prevent overtopping failures, and ban the use of tailings dams as water reservoirs. We have diversion channels to prevent runoff water from entering the dam reservoir and seepage collection systems to protect the environment downstream. In addition to our daily inspections and internal audits, we conduct third party stability reviews of the embankments of our operating and closed tailings dams in addition to regulatory inspections. Facilities can be closed in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding environment. Our historical tailings facility at Fresnillo, for example, now operate as an ecological park for the community and have the environmental quality certification from the Mexican Environment Ministry. 90 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Environment continued Metallurgical waste Cyanide management: environmental aspects Metallurgical waste refers to piles of spent ore and the tailings Environmental protection measures are critical for cyanide produced by heap and dynamic leaching, respectively. leaching systems; we operate in compliance with international best practices as put forth by the International Cyanide Cyanide-bearing mineral waste is disposed of safely. We use Management Institute (ICMI) and the Mexican standard ‘NOM-155 impermeable membranes at the base of geo-technically engineered SEMARNAT-2007’ that establishes environmental requirements heaps and tailings to prevent seepage to groundwater and enhance for gold and silver leaching systems. structural stability. Geotechnical reviews are performed to ensure that the piles and embankments are safe. Channels surrounding the Once gold and silver are extracted from the cyanide solution, heaps and contingency ponds are hydraulically designed to handle process water is reused in the leaching process; water is also flood flows caused by extreme rainfall events and monitoring harvested from the cyanide-bearing tailings and recirculation up and downstream proactively detects changes in water quality. generates savings in cyanide, reductions to the fresh water Once extraction of ore from the mine is complete, the piles are footprint and elimination of discharges into water streams. rinsed and allowed to drain down to ensure environmental 2016 protection. We consider progressive rehabilitation of mineral 2015 waste facilities is the best path for responsible mining. Sodium cyanide (NaCN) (tonne) 10,117,133 8,451,315 Public policy (Reporting boundary excludes San Julián.) Following recent international cases of tailing dam failures, Mexican authorities launched an extensive re-assessment of the Acid mine drainage regulations for design and operation of tailings dams. A multiAcid mine drainage (AMD) is a major environmental challenge for stakeholder group was formed to review a proposal based on the the mining industry. Uncontrolled AMD represents a risk to surface guidelines of the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) and the and groundwater resources during mine operation as well as a Canadian Dam Association, both considered as the best available legacy issue after closure. We analyse the mineral properties and practice. Fresnillo plc participates in the process as an affiliated conduct geochemical tests to screen AMD potential of ore mineral company of the Mexican Mining Chamber. and waste rock. In our operations with AMD risk, notably at San Ramón, we implement site-specific management strategies such Unit 2016 2015 as capping waste rock piles with a dry cover (to reduce the entry Mine waste Waste rock Tonne 161,143,531 162,064,121 of oxygen and water) and collecting and treating acid water. Mexico is currently reviewing the norms that regulate the chemical Processing Tailings Tonne 6,030,362 5,877,794 analysis of tailings and their AMD potential. The Mexican Mining waste Chamber participates in the consultation process of this regulation. Metallurgical Tailings Tonne 2,969,759 2,925,918 waste Heaps Tonne 39,570,603 37,366,591 What is acid mine drainage? Metallic ore deposits may contain abundant sulphide minerals. (Reporting boundary excludes San Julián.) Weathering of sulphides initiates an oxidation process that, uncontrolled, may lead to acid mine water (low pH) and mobilisation Non-mineral and hazardous waste (dissolving) of metals and metalloids. However, not all the ore Non-mineral wastes are most commonly managed through deposits with sulphides generate AMD. Ore deposits may also recycling, off-site treatment and disposal. Hazardous wastes are contain other minerals such as carbonates and silicates that act subject to strict regulation by Mexican authorities at our own as natural buffers, neutralising (consuming) acid water. Hence, storage facilities and at hazardous waste receiving facilities. AMD potential greatly depends on the relative proportion of acid vs. neutralising minerals in the ore and gangue. Public policy Separate from the aforementioned supplemental carbon tax, Communities the state of Zacatecas introduced a US$5 (MX$100) tax for the We engage our neighbouring communities to raise environmental storage of waste rock and tailings. We consider that ‘revenue awareness through events such as World Water Day, World oriented’ taxes on top of regulatory compliance reduces the Environment Day and Tree Day. We conduct talks, contests, ability of companies to invest in technology for mineral waste performances and reforestation campaigns with elementary management. The Mexican Mining Chamber issued public schools and amongst our employees and contractors. statements urging the government of Zacatecas to reconsider such taxes that reduce the competitiveness of mining companies operating in the state. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 91 2016 objectives Our People FRESNILLO TODAY • Train unionised workers in the ethics and integrity Strategic priority programme. To secure the talent pipeline and ensure a fair and • Enhance readiness of crisis committees at each ethical workplace. business unit. • Implement information systems to manage contractor Approach employees in our operations. We seek to attract, develop and retain the best people, and engage them over the long term. 2016 performance We work to develop an organisational culture based on trust, and to embed ethics and integrity into • The ethics programme with unionised workers our culture in order to create a fair and respectful will be implemented after the second phase of the workplace. We respect labour rights and engage non-unionised workers. STRATEGIC REPORT union representatives constructively. Quality • Retrained crisis committees and performed employment is one of the most important benefits emergency drills. to the communities where we operate and a key • Implemented software to better manage mining component to our social acceptability. contractors in our operations. 2017 objectives • Implement the second phase of our ethics and integrity programme. Ethics and culture We aspire to demonstrate a well-established ethical culture CORPORATE GOVERNANCE through our actions and behaviours. In 2016, we updated our Code of Conduct to reflect learnings and higher expectations for ethics leadership, and joined the Business Ethics Leadership Alliance (BELA) of the Ethisphere Institute to identify and adopt ethical best practices from other companies. We also approached the Center for Leadership Ethics of the Eller Business School at the University of Arizona to develop a customised approach to embed ethics in our culture. We aim to encourage winning behaviours to embed ethics and integrity in our culture. We engage our people to share why business ethics and integrity are key priorities for us, and provide training on how to enable and support these behaviours, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS including the use of our behavioural compass. This tool serves as a guide to making decisions when faced with ethical dilemmas. We communicate our policies throughout the year and in our ‘Aguas’ (Watch out) campaigns. Our values are the cornerstone of Ethics and Our moral compass with four simple rules to guide ethical Culture programme. decision making: Am I following the rules? Can I make an informed decision? ility Int Have I thought about the consequences? sib e Could I explain this to my family and would they be happy? Res ity po gr n Investment in training US$ 1.60m Trust y y Lo al et ty S af 2.40 2.13 1.69 1.60 Maintenance Workshop at the Fresnillo mine 2013 2014 2015 2016 92 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Our People continued Ethics and Integrity Strategy Aspirational statement As one of the leading precious metals companies, we aspire to have a well-established business ethics corporate culture demonstrated by our behaviours and actions. Setting the tone Promoting ethical Managing Promoting decision making incentives openness Values Code of Conduct Monitoring Whistleblowing Tone from the top Training Rewards Open culture Advice Discipline Supporting winning behaviours Key initiatives for the second phase of our ethics and integrity programme: • Participate in Ethisphere’s Ethics Quotient to assess our current programme and practices. • Monitoring our culture through Ethisphere’s ethical work climate survey and a custom made survey designed by the Center for Leadership Ethics. • Develop Ethics as a core competence through additional training, engagement and support mechanisms. Honour Commission case investigations Key Harassment of employees 31% Theft19% Corruption15% (with contractors or suppliers) Other HR issues 12% Professional malpractice 11% Conflict of interest 4% Corruption (with the government) 4% Misuse of assets 4% Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 93 Human resources Child labour FRESNILLO TODAY We seek to strengthen the talent pipeline to satisfy our present and Child labour deprives youth of their childhood, dignity and future business needs, ensuring we have the people with the right education. Our minimum age for employment is 18, and we skill sets and development potential to execute our business strategy. mandate such hiring practices for our contractors at all sites where we operate. We contribute to the eradication of child Human and labour rights in the workplace labour in our communities by supporting school infrastructure We are strongly committed to internationally recognised human and reading and education programmes that improve educational and labour rights, and take necessary measures to prevent and opportunities for children. remedy any deviations thereof. The Honours Commission is responsible for investigating and sanctioning unethical behaviours, Forced labour – UK Modern Slavery Act including infringements to human and labour rights. To raise Modern Slavery makes reference to two types of offense: awareness of these issues, our ‘Aguas’ (Watch out) campaign i) slavery, servitude and forced or compulsory labour; engages people to speak out and denounce these behaviours and ii) human trafficking. in conjunction with our Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblowing STRATEGIC REPORT programme. This allows anyone to anonymously report incidents We require mining contractors and suppliers to comply with of discrimination or harassment, whether they involve a co-worker, our Code of Conduct, with contracts that stipulate compliance a supervisor or manager. Whoever is found, after an appropriate with our health and safety policies and operating procedures. investigation, to have engaged in discrimination or harassment, All contractors must register their employees with the Mexican is subject to appropriate disciplinary action, which, depending health and pension system (IMSS), which in turn requires on the gravity, may include dismissal. disclosure of compensation and working hours. This year we conducted focus groups with employees and contractors to Working conditions evaluate their work experience and our corporate responsibility; Our approach to compensation is externally competitive and no evidence of modern slavery was detected. Our employees and internally equitable. We provide competitive wages and benefits contractors must treat members of the community with dignity matching or exceeding median wages in the countries where and respect. Their behaviour must not impact the wellbeing of we operate. In Mexico, we regularly conduct market reviews to vulnerable members of the community by engaging in activities ensure that compensation remains competitive. In 2016, unionised such as compulsory labour or sexual exploitation. All employees CORPORATE GOVERNANCE employees received a 5.5% raise while non-unionised staff received and contractors are encouraged to report any such incident on average a 4.5% raise. to our whistleblowing line as mentioned above. We offer non-unionised employees life insurance, health care, We intend to increase our programme with risk assessments, disability coverage, maternity and paternity leave, retirement due diligence and training tailored to the Modern Slavery Act. provision, savings fund and profit sharing (known as PTU in Mexico). Our collective agreements with unionised-employees Unions: freedom of association consider compensation and working conditions, such as wages, We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and recruitment and dismissals, shifts and working hours, national collective bargaining as laid out in Mexican law. We are committed holidays, vacations, work permits, disciplinary measures, personal to building positive and productive relations with local labour equipment, training, health and safety, occupational diseases, unions through continuous dialogue and collaboration. To date, life insurance, career opportunities (rank, seniority, etc.), savings Fresnillo plc has not experienced a work stoppage or industrial fund and early retirement compensation. action as a consequence of labour disputes. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Whenever there are redundancies in a mine or a specific Each business unit has a union committee with elected department, these employees are given preference over representatives. We engage newly elected representatives of our new external candidates to fill open positions in other mines four committees with workshops to build responsible leadership or departments. skills and to raise awareness of their rights and responsibilities. Our HR superintendents are responsible for maintaining Discrimination permanent dialogue with these committees. Our management We are committed to ensuring that our people are treated fairly teams in each operation organise results presentations several and with dignity in the workplace. Hence, we do not tolerate any times a year to foster common understanding of the business. form of harassment, intimidation or discrimination. We promote We have embedded Health & Safety as a key cooperation topic equal opportunity in the workplace. Employment and career with unions at the local and national level as part of our strategy development decisions must be based on performance, to develop a safety culture. qualifications, skills, experience and ethical behaviour. Discriminatory practices are unacceptable. In 2016, we successfully negotiated the remuneration adjustment with the four committees. Collective bargaining covers the Recognising that women are underrepresented in our workforce elements outlined in ‘Working conditions’ above. In 2016, the (see Diversity on page 94), we implement rules for compensation incumbent union of our Penmont operation was challenged of non-unionised employees based on salary ranges that are gender by an opposing mining union, forcing an election specified independent. Currently, differences in the compensation of women by Mexican law. The incumbent union SNMM Frente won the with respect to men are due mainly to seniority in their positions. election with 94% of the votes. Difference in compensation between men and women in non-unionised and non-managerial roles Support and Underground operations Open pit operations administrative staff Overall First level ‘Senior Engineer’ -4.05% -3.13% -13.58% -7.38% Second level ‘Junior Engineer’ -6.70% -1.20% 0.11% -4.14% Third level ‘Assistant’ -21.10% -0.58% 46.00% -5.76% 94 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Our People continued Diversity: women in mining merit must remain the key criteria for employment and career We recognise that diversity in the workforce brings a range development decisions. Hence, our efforts focus on engaging of perspectives and skills that make companies stronger. unions on the role of diversity and hiring and developing women with educational training in mining engineering, geology, finance Our gender diversity indicators cover the full workforce; however, and accounting. the Company can address the diversity gap amongst its nonunionised employees more readily. Some highlights: Great Place to Work® Trust Index© Fresnillo plc was recognised as a Great Place to Work in • Women represent 13.5% of our non-unionised employees Mexico in 2016, as a result of the Great Place to Work perception with an average seniority of 6.5 years. survey conducted to measure the quality of the workplace • 44% of women are employed in operational (engineering) experience according to the level of trust, pride and camaraderie roles; the remaining are in support or administrative functions amongst employees. (finance, accounting, community relations, etc.). • 13% of non-unionised woman earned a promotion in 2016. Women are underrepresented within our Company and in the mining industry in general. Attracting women to mining roles in Mexico depends on a deep change in the perceptions on the role of gender in these positions. This will take time to rectify but it has been changing, particularly in relation to unionised workers in underground operations. Although many companies have decided to set numerical targets for diversity, we consider that skills and Voluntary labour turnover Gender diversity % % Key Key Total turnover Gender diversity Voluntary labour turnover Gender diversity (managers) 10.48 9.21 9.40 8.83 8.33 8.50 8.19 7.77 6.29 5.48 5.39 4.69 4.35 3.85 4.07 3.45 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of permanent employee resignations as a percentage of total permanent Percentage of women, and female managers. employees. Employees and contractors Unionised workers Average workforce training Average HSECR training hours hours Key Employees Contractors 7,815 Key Non-unionised workers Unionised workers 89 50 3,840 3,324 69 3,292 100 3,589 2,684 85 87 89 55 57 3,150 2,610 50 4,191 4,293 3,262 3,501 817 899 969 652 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 95 2016 objectives Community Relations FRESNILLO TODAY • Review results of perception studies; leverage insights to improve social investment and engagement strategies. Strategic priority • Design and implement a protocol to conduct follow-up To engage with and support the development visits to the operations and projects. of our communities. • Ongoing adoption and maturity of best practices in community relations. Approach Our communities are strategic partners. Having their 2016 performance trust requires effectively engaging them and being accountable for our impacts. We recognise that • Outcomes of perception studies of Penmont, Fresnillo, building trust is the only way to obtain and preserve Saucito, Ciénega and San Julián were analysed and our social licence to operate. Our corporate strategy action plans are under development. STRATEGIC REPORT covers all phases of the mining cycle, and our social • Developed a methodology to assess and monitor investments target development levers such as stakeholder engagement efforts in the operations education, capacity building and infrastructure. and projects. We also contribute to social welfare (public health, • Two best practices have been identified: human rights social interaction and sports) and help raise due diligence and resettlements. Current practices will environmental awareness within our communities. be integrated into a Social Management System. 2017 objectives • Standardise stakeholder engagement plans. • Enhance our approach to social baseline and perception studies. • Sponsor a reading and an entrepreneurial programme. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Introduce the second phase of the Silver Saves Lives project. Social Management System We formalised our management system in 2016 to provide guidance on tools and best practices to implement our strategy. Our Management System consists of procedures distributed across the phases of mining following our approach ‘Know the community’, ‘Engage effectively’ and ‘Build with the community’. These processes are tracked in our Borealis Information System. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Community investment US$ 2.59m 2.65 2.59 2.14 2.21 2013 2014 2015 2016 96 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Community Relations continued Advancing our knowledge Engaging effectively We build our knowledge of communities by identifying Effective engagement improves our understanding of community stakeholders and understanding their positions on key issues. expectations and builds mutually beneficial relationships With the support of the Borealis Information System we throughout the life of our mines. We aim to engage early in the track our stakeholder registry, informal and formal meetings, process to manage community expectations and develop trust incident and commitment registries and grievances. Continuous through the mining lifecycle. Building a reservoir of stakeholder engagement and comprehensive social analyses help us gain capital is key to resilience when challenges arise. The focus of further understanding of the risks and opportunities in the our engagement efforts changes over the lifecycle of operations, communities where we operate. as follows: Baseline and social impact assessments in projects Exploration Our exploration teams are the first to establish We conduct social baseline studies to better understand the contact with the community. Our stakeholders socio-economic conditions of new projects and social impact are identified and the engagement efforts assessment to better understand how our projects might positively focus on obtaining temporary land access or negatively impact local communities. We recently conducted to explore and assessing social risks. studies for our exploration projects at Orysivo, el Gigante and Project The identification and relation with our Las Torres. (feasibility stakeholders deepens in this phase of the – development) cycle. Local hiring, contracts and social Perception studies in our operations investment are part of our efforts to build trust. We periodically commission comprehensive perception studies We conduct social risk assessments in our to measure the effectiveness of our strategy and to deepen advanced feasibility and development projects. our insight on the issues that matter to our communities. These These studies facilitate the identification of the aim to evaluate how we are perceived as employers, neighbours issues that matter to the community. and to what extent our credibility, environmental and social commitment are recognised. The results are analysed by senior Operation We engage the communities regularly with managers and community relations teams and help us evaluate formal and informal meetings to manage the success of our engagement and social investment their expectations and detect risks and approaches, identify risks and opportunities, and determine opportunities. Comprehensive perception how we should advance our engagement and social investment studies help to monitor the perception of the in order to improve performance. benefits and the assessment of the issues that matter to the community. To help create a consistent approach across our operations, development projects and exploration sites, we are working to develop a standard for stakeholder engagement plans. These plans will be based on stakeholder identification, mapping and analysis, and will define the engagement approach (formal, informal meetings, consultations, etc.) and frequency. How we engage communities in the life of a mine. Exploration Project Operation Closure Stakeholder analysis/Information system Media monitoring 1 Knowledge Studies (baseline, perception and social risk) Evaluation of partnerships with NGOs Activities with the communities 2 Formal meetings/informal meetings/consultation/communication Effective Registry of incidents/Registry of commitments/Grievances Engagement Social investment/Social investment committee Community requests 3 Capacity building Develop Local employment and local contractors Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 97 Land acquisition and resettlement Silver Saves Lives (SSL) FRESNILLO TODAY Developing a mining project involves land acquisition and in The objective of the SSL initiative is to support vulnerable some cases, the resettlement of households. We recognise that communities to increase safe water access in public spaces, these are complex and life-changing issues for the communities. especially in public schools. SSL is designed to propose a range of Poorly planned and managed, land acquisition and resettlement solutions depending on water sources and a community’s needs; can adversely impact the livelihoods and social structure of we anticipate working with a variety of knowledgable partners, communities, damage our relationships, or even cause conflict. amongst them the communities themselves. We recognise that the right to an adequate standard of living after land acquisition and resettlement projects is a basic human right. We implemented water harvesting systems in four schools in the We seek to manage resettlement responsibly, respecting local laws Ciénega community. This pilot project was assessed by a third and adopting international best practices. party to provide objective feedback that can be integrated into the next phase of the project for which planning is underway; No resettlement occurred at our operations during 2016. we aim to launch this initiative in Penmont, San Julián and Saucito. Nonetheless, we are developing guidance for resettlements, STRATEGIC REPORT including social baseline and asset surveys, entitlement and To raise awareness and foster acceptability in this first phase, compensation framework, negotiation, livelihood restoration we organised educational, information and training sessions; art programmes and ongoing monitoring and evaluation. In 2017, workshops, mural paintings, and storytelling aided by photography we will further develop our guidance, ensuring that it meets aimed at bridging the divide between mine and community. the criteria set by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Our aim is to create a conversation (both visual and oral) on local Performance Standard 5 on Land Acquisition and Involuntary water needs, the surrounding environment and the possibility Resettlement, and that it considers lessons learned by other of collectively becoming water stewards in the region. companies, notably those operating in Mexico. Education We aim to avoid resettlements by exploring alternative designs, In line with SDG 4, we seek to ensure inclusive and quality but when unavoidable, we will work together with affected education for all and to promote lifelong learning. We collaborate households, communities and governments to minimise adverse with communities in programmes to engage children to read, impacts, restoring or improving livelihoods and living conditions. communicate and learn science. We see education as a key lever CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to reduce poverty and inequality. Developing with the community We engage local authorities to fund infrastructure projects with Along with the INNOVEC partnership for improving the the Mining Fund in the communities where we operate. We partner teaching of science in the neighbouring communities of Fresnillo with the UNAM Foundation and local health authorities to organise and Saucito, we also engaged technical high schools in our health weeks that benefit communities with free health care. communities of Penmont and Fresnillo to get familiar with We continue to build on our partnership with INNOVEC and the the FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and government of the state of Zacatecas to support the teaching of Technology) Robotics Competition (FRC). We will partner with science in elementary schools. Several schools in the neighbouring these schools to enrol teams in the next robotics competition. communities of Fresnillo and Saucito receive government funding Engineers of Fresnillo will coach students in the FRC to build to implement this innovative programme, which trains and equips a robot that can perform certain tasks. schools to teach science in an experiential manner that piques the curiosity of children. Children who develop solid reading skills perform better at FINANCIAL STATEMENTS school and improve their potential for full participation in society. Strategic social investment Recognising the importance of reading, we have partnered with Health the NGO International Board on Books for Young People (IBBY) In support of SDG 3, we seek to ensure healthy lives and to bring books and children together in the communities where promote wellbeing. We operate in some communities where we operate. With the valuable support of IBBY Mexico, we opened access to healthcare is a stakeholder concern either due to remote some ‘Bunkos’ in our communities of Ciénega and close to geographic location or low socioeconomic levels, making access Penmont, and one for the children of our employees at Fresnillo. to health services difficult. Cooperation with NGOs and local health Bunkos are small community libraries where volunteers read aloud authorities is crucial to foster a preventive and self-care culture. to children and facilitate discussions. Unlike traditional libraries, Please refer to page 80-81 for further information. Bunkos offer a space where children can choose their own readings and discuss their ideas with other children. In 2017, Health Weeks we will expand the project with a target of Bunkos in 58 schools In 2016, we organised health weeks at Ciénega, the Fresnillo district in the communities of Ciénega, Penmont, Saucito, Fresnillo, and Penmont. San Julián, Orisyvo and Gigante (Guanajuato) projects. IBBY will guide us on the choice of books, the initial training of teachers, Water monitoring of progress and coaching of the teachers. Access to safe drinking water is a major global challenge. We are committed to SDG 6, to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. We collaborate with communities through water and sanitation infrastructure funded by the Mining fund, direct social investment and raising awareness of environmental care. 98 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Community Relations continued Capacity building Engaging authorities to benefit our communities We support SDG 8, to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable with the Mining Fund economic growth, full and productive employment and decent We partner with communities to engage local authorities and work for all. regional Mining Fund committees to consider funding projects in the communities where we operate. The outcomes of the Local suppliers perception surveys and regular engagement were used to identify Promoting small and medium businesses is key to social the most relevant infrastructure issues for the communities. acceptability and community development. We are committed We supported the communities with the preliminary design and to developing and hiring local suppliers. We have more than 230 budgeting of project proposals for water and wastewater projects, local suppliers providing services to our mines and exploration pavement, lightning, education infrastructure, sanitation and projects. We collaborate with the NGO Proempleo to train, coach landfills, among others. and develop the skills of small businesses. We believe that a key success factor to raising social acceptability Engaging municipalities to diversify their economies rests on the willingness of municipalities to allocate a reasonable In 2017, we will collaborate with municipal governments to develop part of their funds to those communities near mining operations. entrepreneurs in Fresnillo, Ciénega and Penmont. With the 2016 assistance of NGOs and consultants, we will engage municipalities 2015 to identify business opportunities to diversify local economies from Mining Fund (US$ million) 32.7 11.4 mining. Preparing communities in advance is key to preparing for mine closure. Economic impact Our economic contribution creates value in the regions where Infrastructure we operate through total wages and benefits, payments to local We invest strategically in social infrastructure and collaborate contractors and suppliers, and municipal, state and federal taxes. with communities to engage municipalities to fund infrastructure projects in their communities with the Mining Fund. US$ million Wages and benefits of workers 71.29 Payments to suppliers (contractors) 894.23 Payments to local governments 2.15 Payments to federal government 273.33 1,241.00 Rural entrepreneurs in San Julián Our San Julián project supports farmers and other rural producers to improve their production and marketing systems by joining one of the Strategic Projects for Food Security (known in Spanish as PESA). PESA projects are implemented by Rural Development Agencies (ADRs) using strategies of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). A group of farmers from eight of our communities are currently local suppliers of vegetables, eggs and pork meat. Through technical support, their production improved to comply with the quality standards of our dining facilities. In addition, in the community of ‘La Lagunita’, a group of women entrepreneurs launched a bakery with the support of the community, the Mexican National Council for Culture and Arts (CONACULTA) and the San Julián Project. With their bakery they are now self-employed and have created jobs for 15 more people, preserving the tradition of making bread in wood-fired ovens. Their bread is sold to the Company, in the community and nearby communities. A similar group of entrepreneurial woman from the community of ‘Las Papas’ launched a tortillería (a tortilla bakery) to supply our dining facilities. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 99 Performance indicators FRESNILLO TODAY Community investment by strategic lever (%) Community investment by business unit (%) Key Key Community capacity Ciénega11% building9% Explorations5% Education33% Fresnillo62% Social welfare 50% Penmont14% Infrastructure3% Servicos Administrativos Environmental awareness 5% Fresnillo6% Saucito2% STRATEGIC REPORT Activities by strategic lever (%) – Explorations Activities by strategic lever (%) – Operations Key Key Environmental awareness 37% Environmental awareness 17% Education5% Education28% Social welfare 57% Social welfare 44% Capacity building 1% Capacity building 11% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Contributions requested by the community (%) – Explorations Contributions requested by the community (%) – Operations Key Key Accepted92% Accepted75% Rejected8% Rejected25% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Economic value distributed (%) Economic value distributed – by state (%) Key Key Wages and benefits of workers 5.7% Zacatecas21.7% Payments to suppliers (contractors) 72.1% Sonora31.5% Payments to local governments 0.2% Durango8.5% Payments to federal government 22.0% Chihuahua6.1% Guanajuato4.9% Mexico City 14.8% Estado de Mexico 3.0% Coahuila9.5% 100 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Review The Consolidated Financial Statements of Fresnillo plc are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU. This Financial Review is intended to convey the main factors affecting performance and to provide a detailed analysis of the financial results in order to enhance understanding of the Group’s financial statements. All comparisons refer to 2016 figures compared to 2015, unless otherwise noted. The financial information and year-on-year variations are presented in US dollars, except where indicated. The full financial statements and their accompanying notes can be found on pages 167-215. Commentary on financial performance The Company achieved strong financial results with growth of 103.7% in gross profit, 88.5% in EBITDA, and 552.6% in attributable profit for the year, excluding the effect of the Silverstream revaluation. Furthermore, cash generation from our operations more than offset the investment in capex and the payment of dividends, resulting in the Company generating net cash of US$412.5 million for the period, with a cash and short-term investment balance of US$912.0 million as of 31 December 2016. This strong financial position both reflects and extends our ability to continue generating value for our stakeholders. Income statement 2016 2015 Amount Change US$ million US$ million US$ % Adjusted revenue 1 2,045.0 1,583.3 461.7 29.2 Total revenues 1,905.5 1,444.4 461.1 31.9 Cost of sales (1,023.4) (1,011.3) (12.1) 1.2 Gross profit 882.1 433.1 449.0 103.7 Exploration expenses 121.2 140.2 19.1 (13.6) Operating profit 676.5 200.4 476.0 237.5 EBITDA 2 1,032.0 547.5 484.5 88.5 Income tax expense including Mining right 293.3 143.0 150.3 105.1 Profit for the year 425.0 69.4 355.6 512.4 Profit for the year, excluding post-tax Silverstream effects 331.5 50.0 281.5 563.0 Basic and diluted earnings per share (US$/share) 3 0.579 0.096 0.483 503.1 Basic and diluted earnings per share, excluding post-tax Silverstream effects (US$/share) 0.453 0.069 0.384 556.5 1. Adjusted revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement adjusted to exclude treatment and refining charges and gold, lead and zinc hedging. 2 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) is calculated as gross profit plus depreciation less administrative, selling and exploration expenses. 3 The weighted average number of ordinary shares was 736,893,589 for 2016 and 2015. See note 19 in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Group’s financial performance is largely determined by the operational performance of our assets and the ability of our management and personnel to achieve our strategic goals. This year in particular, metal prices and the devaluation of the Mexican peso, which lie beyond our control, have had a favourable effect on our financial results. These include: Precious metal prices In 2016, the average realised gold price increased 10.7%, to US$1,246.5 per ounce and the average realised silver price increased 10.3% to $17.2 per ounce. Furthermore, the average realised lead and zinc prices increased 7.0% and 20.0% year on year, to US$85.1 and US$100.5 cents per pound, respectively. As in previous years, the Company has structured certain hedge positions for lead and zinc to mitigate the risk of metal price volatilities, as set out in the financial statements pages 208-209. MX$/US$ exchange rate The average spot Mexican peso/US dollar exchange rate devalued by 17.7%, from $15.85 per US dollar in 2015 to $18.66 per US dollar in 2016. This resulted in a favourable effect estimated at US$45.2 million on the Group’s production costs, as costs denominated in Mexican pesos (approximately two-thirds of total costs) were lower when converted to US dollars. The Mexican peso/US dollar spot exchange rate at 31 December 2016 was $20.66 per US dollar, compared to $17.21 per US dollar at the beginning of the year. The 20.1% devaluation had an adverse effect on: i) monetary assets transacted in Mexican pesos; and ii) taxes and mining rights as the devaluation resulted in an increase in related deferred tax liabilities. Cost deflation In 2016, there was a net decrease in the weighted average input cost over the year, of 8.1%. This deflation reflected, amongst other factors, the favourable effect of the 17.7% average devaluation of the Mexican peso against the US dollar. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 101 Labour FRESNILLO TODAY Employees received on average a 5.0% increase in wages in Mexican pesos, and administrative employees at the mines received a 4.5% increase; when converted to US dollars, the weighted average labour deflation was 11.1%. Energy Electricity The weighted average cost of electricity decreased by 16.6% from US$7.1 cents per kW in 2015 to US$5.9 cents per kW in 2016. Electricity rates are set by the Comisión Federal de Electricidad (CFE), the national utility, based on their average generating cost, which correlates mainly to fuel oil and coal prices. In 2016, the decrease in electricity rates by CFE was mainly explained by the positive effect of the devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar exchange rate, and to a lesser extent, the lower average generating cost following a decrease in fuel prices. Diesel The weighted average cost of diesel in US dollars decreased 15.6% to US$62.6 cents per litre in 2016, compared to US$74.2 cents per litre STRATEGIC REPORT in 2015. Diesel prices in 2016 were controlled by Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), the national oil company. Complete price liberalisation of fuels is expected in 2018. Operating materials Year over year change in unit price % Steel balls for milling (8.9) Lubricants (7.7) Tyres (5.7) Sodium cyanide (16.1) Other reagents (3.7) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Explosives (7.7) Steel for drilling 1.2 Weighted average of all operating materials (6.5) For the third consecutive year, unit prices of the majority of key operating materials decreased, resulting in a net weighted average decrease of 6.5%. This reflects the combined effect of price deflation and the weighting of each component in the total cost of operating materials. There has been no significant impact on the unit cost of operating materials from the devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar exchange rate as the majority of these items are dollar-denominated. Contractors Agreements are signed individually with each contractor company, and include specific terms and conditions that cover not only labour, but also operating materials, equipment and maintenance, amongst others. Contractor costs are mainly denominated in Mexican pesos FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and are an important component of the Company’s total production costs. In 2016, increases granted to contractors, whose agreements were due for review during the period, ranged from 2.2% to 20.0% in Mexican pesos (equivalent to -13.2% to 2.0% in dollar terms), resulting in a weighted average decrease of 4.0% in US dollars. Maintenance Unit prices of spare parts for maintenance decreased 6.0% on average in US dollar terms. Others Other cost components include freight and insurance premiums, which decreased by an estimated 11.6% and 7.7% respectively on a per unit basis. The remaining components had an average deflation of 7.0% over 2015. Treatment and refining charges Treatment and refining charges 4 are reviewed annually using international benchmarks. Treatment charges per tonne of lead and zinc concentrate decreased in dollar terms by 11.5% and 8.7%, respectively, whilst silver refining charges decreased 4.3% year-on-year. However, this was mostly offset by the increase in volumes of zinc concentrates with high silver contents shipped from Fresnillo and Saucito to Met-Mex. As a result, treatment and refining charges set out in the income statement decreased by only 1.2% over 2015. The effects of the above external factors, combined with the Group’s internal variables, are further described below through the main line items of the income statement. 4. Treatment and refining charges include the cost of treatment and refining as well as the margin charged by the refiner. 102 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Review continued Revenues Consolidated revenues (US$ million) 2016 2015 Amount Change US$ million US$ million US$ % Adjusted revenue 1 2,045.0 1,583.3 461.7 29.2 Gold, lead and zinc hedging 1.6 3.9 (2.3) (59.0) Treatment and refining charges (141.1) (142.8) 1.7 (1.2) Total revenues 1,905.5 1,444.4 461.1 31.9 1. Adjusted revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement adjusted to exclude treatment and refining charges and gold, lead and zinc hedging. Total revenues for the full year of US$1,905.5 million increased by 31.9% over 2015. This was mainly explained by the 29.2% increase in adjusted revenue as a result of the increase in sales volumes and higher metal prices. In 2015, we entered into derivative contracts (which extended into 2016) to hedge part of our lead and zinc by-product production through collar structures, resulting in a US$1.5 million gain recorded in this year’s income statement. The chart below illustrates the total expired hedging structures for 2016; as of 31 December there were no outstanding positions. 2016 Concept Zinc Lead Weighted floor (US$/tonne) 2,205 1,984.5 Weighted cap (US$/tonne) 2,542.50 2,258.6 Expired volume (tonne) 4,536 4,272 Gain recognised in income (US$ thousand) 877.4 660.6 Total outstanding volume (tonne) – – In addition, during the second half of 2014, we initiated a one-off hedging programme to protect the value of the investment made on the Penmont acquisition. The hedging programme was executed for a total volume of 1,559,689 oz of gold with monthly maturities until December 2019, the effects of which are recorded as finance income and a small portion in revenue. The table below illustrates the expired structures and the outstanding hedged position as of 31 December 2016. As of 31 December* Concept 2016 2016 Weighted floor (US$/oz) 1,100 1,100 Weighted cap (US$/oz) 1,438 1,423.76 Expired volume (oz) 220,152 – Gain recognised in income (US$ thousand) 48.2 – Total outstanding volume (oz) – 1,037,364 * Monthly settlements until December 2019. Fresnillo plc’s hedging policy for metal prices remained unchanged for the remainder of the portfolio, providing shareholders with full exposure to the gold and silver prices. The higher volumes sold, mainly due to the reduction of gold inventories in the leaching pads at Herradura, and to a lesser extent, the start-up of San Julián, resulted in a positive impact on revenues of US$292.4 million, which represented 63.3% of the US$461.7 million increase in adjusted revenues. The remaining 36.7%, or US$169.3 million, was explained by the benefit of higher metal prices. The contribution of gold to adjusted revenues increased from 52% in 2015 to 55% in 2016, while the contribution of silver decreased from 39% to 35%. This resulted from the combination of: i) the increase in volume of gold sold (+36.9%) which was higher than that of silver (+17.3%); and ii) the 10.7% increase in the average price of gold, whilst the average silver price rose 10.3%. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 103 Adjusted revenues 1 by metal (US$ million) FRESNILLO TODAY 2016 2015 US$ US$ Volume Price Total million % million % Variance Variance US$ % Silver 724.0 35.4 617.4 39.0 38.3 68.3 106.6 17.3 Gold 1,133.0 55.4 827.4 52.3 225.6 80 305.6 36.9 Lead 82.4 4.0 67.1 4.2 10.2 5.1 15.3 22.8 Zinc 105.6 5.2 71.3 4.5 18.3 15.9 34.3 48.1 Total adjusted revenues 2,045.0 100.0 1,583.3 100.0 292.4 169.3 461.7 29.2 1. Adjusted revenues is revenue as disclosed in the income statement adjusted to exclude treatment and refining charges and gold, lead and zinc hedging. STRATEGIC REPORT • Herradura was the main contributor to adjusted revenues, reflecting the decrease in gold inventories in the leaching pads which was made possible due to the commissioning of the second Merrill Crowe Plant at the dynamic leaching plant (DLP) in the last quarter of 2015, eliminating the bottleneck in processing solution coming from the leaching pads and the DLP. • Saucito was the second contributor, although its contribution declined from 30% in 2015 to 26% in 2016, notwithstanding a 12.7% increase in adjusted revenues. • Similarly, Fresnillo contributed a lesser share of adjusted revenues, but remained as the third most important contributor to the Group’s adjusted revenues. • Ciénega slightly decreased its contribution; whilst phase I of San Julián contributed for the first time. Adjusted revenues by metal 2016 2015 Gold 55.4% 52.3% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Silver 35.4% 39.0% Zinc 5.2% 4.5% Lead 4.0% 4.2% Total 100% 100% Adjusted revenues by mine (US$ million) 2016 2015 US$ million US$ million Herradura 656.1 445.1 Saucito 528.0 468.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo 382.7 318.6 Noche Buena 225.8 181.7 Ciénega 185.0 169.5 San Julián 67.4 0.0 Soledad-Dipolos 0.0 0.0 Total 2,045.0 1,583.3 104 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Review continued Volumes of metal sold % participation % participation 2016 of each mine 2015 of each mine % change Silver (koz) Saucito 20,386 48.5 20,337 51.2 0.2 Fresnillo 14,552 34.6 14,630 36.9 (0.5) Ciénega 4,482 10.7 4,129 10.4 8.5 San Julián 1,945 4.6 0 0.0 N/A Herradura 646 1.5 535 1.3 20.7 Noche Buena 17 0.0 63 0.2 (73.0) TOTAL SILVER (koz) 42,028 100 39,694 100 5.9 Gold (koz) Herradura 549 60.4 409 55.6 34.2 Noche Buena 148 16.3 143 19.5 3.5 Saucito 78 8.6 75 10.2 4.0 Ciénega 67 7.4 77 10.5 (13.0) Fresnillo 37 4.1 31 4.2 19.3 San Julián 30 3.3 0 0.0 N/A TOTAL GOLD (koz) 909 100 735 100 23.7 Lead (mt) Fresnillo 19,618 44.7 15,030 39.2 30.5 Saucito 19,171 43.6 18,916 49.4 1.3 Ciénega 5,138 11.7 4,352 11.4 18.1 TOTAL LEAD (mt) 43,927 100 38,298 100 14.7 Zinc (mt) Fresnillo 21,828 45.8 15,936 41.3 37.0 Saucito 19,551 41.0 17,358 44.9 12.6 Ciénega 6,259 13.1 5,324 13.8 17.6 TOTAL ZINC (mt) 47,638 100 38,618 100 23.3 Cost of sales 2016 2015 Amount Change US$ million US$ million US$ % Adjusted production costs 1 618.9 634.5 (15.6) (2.5) Depreciation 346.5 331.2 15.3 4.6 Change in work in progress 60.2 6.3 53.9 855.6 Hedging 2.8 28.6 (25.8) (90.3) Reversal of inventories write-down, profit sharing and others (5.1) 10.7 (15.8) (147.7) Cost of sales 1,023.4 1,011.3 12.1 1.2 1. Adjusted production costs is calculated as total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing and the effects of exchange rate hedging. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 105 Cost of sales remained fairly stable at US$1,023.4 million. The US$12.1 million increase is explained by the following combination of factors: FRESNILLO TODAY • A decrease in adjusted production costs (-US$15.6 million): This was mainly driven by: i) the favourable effect of the 17.7% devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar exchange rate when converting peso-denominated costs to US dollars (-US$45.2 million); ii) the efficiencies achieved at Fresnillo, Saucito and Ciénega resulting from some optimisation projects and cost reduction initiatives (-US$8.6 million); iii) lower energy costs, excluding foreign exchange effects, reflecting lower unit prices of electricity and diesel (-US$6.4 million); iv) lower cost of operating materials (-US$6.0 million); and v) lower maintenance costs (-US$4.0 million). These positive effects were partially offset by: i) additional production costs related to the start-up of San Julián phase I (US$20.4 million); ii) additional production costs related to increased ore throughput at Herradura and Saucito (US$24.6 million); iii) higher contractor costs as a result of a greater number of contractors used to carry out development, mainly at Saucito, and an increase in the unit fees charged by contractors in Mexican pesos (US$4.8 million); iv) an increase in the unit cost of personnel (excluding foreign exchange effects) and other items in pesos (US$4.8 million). • Mexican peso/US dollar hedging (-US$25.8 million): During 2015 the Group entered into a combination of put and call options structured at zero cost (collars) which extended into 2016. The volume that expired during 2016 had been put in place to hedge STRATEGIC REPORT US$198 million of costs denominated in Mexican pesos with average floor and cap exchange rates of $14.91 and $18.26 per US dollar respectively, resulting in a US$2.77 million loss recorded in the income statement; as of 31 December 2016, there were no outstanding positions. • Reversal of inventories write-down, profit sharing and others (-US$15.8 million): The change is principally explained by the reversal of the provision recorded in December 2015 related to the forward price of gold falling below the inventory carrying cost at SoledadDipolos. This trend was reversed in 2016. These positive effects were more than offset by increases in: • Variation in change in work in progress (+US$53.9 million). This was mainly explained by the decrease in inventories at the leaching pads at Herradura. • Depreciation (+US$15.3 million): The increase was explained by the larger asset base following the completion of San Julián phase I, and the increased depletion factor at Herradura. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Cost per tonne, cash cost per ounce and all-in sustaining cost Cost per tonne, calculated as total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing and exchange rate hedging effects, divided by total tonnage milled or deposited, is a key indicator to measure the effects of mining inflation and cost control performance at each mine and the Group as a whole. We have included cost per tonne hauled/moved as we believe it is a useful indicator to thoroughly analyse cost performance for the open pit mines. Cost per tonne 2016 2015 Change % Fresnillo US$/tonne milled 43.93 48.20 (8.9) Saucito US$/tonne milled 36.75 42.49 (13.5) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ciénega US$/tonne milled 55.49 62.99 (11.9) Herradura US$/tonne deposited 7.72 8.68 (11.0) Herradura US$/tonne hauled 2.31 2.66 (13.2) Noche Buena US$/tonne deposited 7.48 7.93 (5.7) Noche Buena US$/tonne hauled 1.60 1.67 (4.2) Explanations regarding changes in cost per tonne by mine were covered in the Review of Operations section, pages 58-67. Cash cost per ounce, calculated as total cash cost (cost of sales plus treatment and refining charges less depreciation) less revenues from by-products divided by the silver or gold ounces sold, when compared to the corresponding metal price, is an indicator of the ability of the mine to cover its production costs. 106 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Review continued Cash cost per ounce 2016 2015 Change % Fresnillo US$ per silver ounce 2.09 5.60 (62.6) Saucito US$ per silver ounce (0.39) 1.15 (133.9) Ciénega US$ per gold ounce (217.19) 245.49 (188.5) Herradura US$ per gold ounce 470.72 472.53 (0.4) Noche Buena US$ per gold ounce 765.90 972.74 (21.3) The particular variations in cash cost for each mine are explained as follows: Fresnillo: US$2.09/oz (2016) vs. US$5.60/oz (2015), (-62.6%) The decrease in cash cost per ounce is mainly explained by the higher by-product credits per silver ounce due to the increase in gold, lead and zinc volumes sold at higher prices (-US$2.88/oz); lower cost per tonne (-US$0.66/oz) (see pages 58-59); increase in ore grade (-US$0.07/oz); and others (-US$0.01/oz). This was partly offset by higher treatment and refining charges per silver ounce due to: higher zinc and lead ore grades which increased the volume of concentrates, and an increase in the participation of zinc concentrate which has a higher per unit treatment charge (+US$0.12/oz). Saucito: -US$0.39/oz (2016) vs. US$1.15/oz (2015), (-133.9%) The decrease was driven by the higher by-product credits per ounce of silver resulting from increased gold, lead and zinc volumes sold at higher prices (-US$1.21/oz); lower cost per tonne (-US$0.63/oz) (see pages 60-61); and lower treatment and refining charges (-US$0.23/oz). These positive effects were partly offset by the expected lower silver grade (+US$0.52/oz); and others (+US$0.01/oz). Ciénega: -US$217.19/oz (2016) vs. US$245.49/oz (2015), (-188.5%) The decrease in cash cost was primarily explained by higher by-product credits per ounce of gold due to the increased volumes of silver, lead and zinc sold at higher prices (-US$457.22/oz); and the decrease in cost per tonne (-US$141.54/oz) (see pages 62-63). These favourable factors were partly offset by the expected decrease in gold grade (+US$98.31/oz); higher treatment and refining charges resulting from lower gold ore grade which requires producing more concentrate per ounce of gold, and higher lead and zinc ore grades which increase the volume of concentrates (+US$33.89/oz); and others (+US$3.88/oz). Herradura: US$470.72/oz (2016) vs. US$472.53/oz (2015), (-0.4%) The decrease in cash cost resulted from the lower cost per tonne (-US$47.68/oz) (see page 64); higher by-product credits per gold ounce due to the increased volume of silver sold at a higher price (-US$1.09/oz); and lower treatment and refining charges (-US$0.05/oz). These favourable effects were offset by: i) the expected lower gold grade (+US$30.29/oz); ii) an adverse inventory valuation effect, as ounces with a lower cost of production in the current period are mixed with the initial higher cost of inventory affecting cost of sales (+US$16.47/oz); and others (+US$0.24/oz). Noche Buena: US$765.90/oz (2016) vs. US$972.74/oz (2015), (-21.3%) The decrease in cash cost per ounce was mainly explained by: i) the higher gold grade (-US$123.96/oz); ii) the lower cost per tonne (-US$46.03/oz) (see page 66); and iii) the others (-US$36.85/oz). San Julián (phase I): commenced operations in August 2016, thus there are no comparable year-on-year figures. In addition to the traditional cash cost described above, the Group is reporting all-in sustaining costs (AISC), in accordance with the guidelines issued by the World Gold Council. This cost metric is calculated as traditional cash cost plus on-site general, corporate and administrative costs, community costs related to current operations, capitalised stripping and underground mine development, sustaining capital expenditures and remediation expenses. Management considers all-in sustaining costs a reasonable indicator of the mine’s ability to generate free cash flow when compared with the corresponding metal price, and a means to monitor not only current production costs, but also sustaining costs as it includes mine development costs incurred to prepare the mine for future production, as well as sustaining capex. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 107 All-in sustaining cost FRESNILLO TODAY 2016 2015 Change % Fresnillo US$ per silver ounce 7.82 11.48 (31.9) Saucito US$ per silver ounce 4.77 7.11 (32.9) Ciénega US$ per gold ounce 428.00 710.37 (39.7) Herradura US$ per gold ounce 731.69 888.04 (17.6) Noche Buena US$ per gold ounce 823.04 1,015.40 (18.9) Fresnillo: Lower, mainly due to the lower administrative expenses and a decrease in capitalised development and mining works reflecting the temporary decrease in development rates; and the lower cash cost as detailed on the previous page. STRATEGIC REPORT Saucito: Lower, as a result of the decrease in capex in 2016 compared to capex invested in expansion and efficiency projects in 2015; and the lower cash cost as detailed on the previous page. Ciénega: Lower, primarily explained by the lower cash cost as detailed on the previous page. Herradura: Lower, mainly due to the decrease in capitalised stripping costs; and to a lesser extent, the lower cash cost as detailed on the previous page. Noche Buena: Lower, driven by the lower cash cost as detailed on the previous page. San Julián (phase I): commenced operations in August 2016, thus there are no comparable year-on-year figures. Gross profit CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Gross profit, excluding hedging gains and losses, is a key financial indicator of profitability at each business unit and the Fresnillo Group as a whole. Contribution by mine to consolidated gross profit, excluding hedging gains and losses 2016 2015 Change US$ million % US$ million % Amount % Herradura 309.3 35.7 163.3 35.4 146.0 89.4 Saucito 269.4 31.1 198.7 43.1 70.7 35.6 Fresnillo 158.6 18.3 83.1 18.0 75.5 90.9 Noche Buena 54.1 6.3 -1.2 -0.2 55.3 N/A Ciénega 48.2 5.6 17.1 3.7 31.1 181.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS San Julián 26.3 3.0 0.0 0.0 26.3 N/A Total for operating mines 865.9 100 461.0 100 405 87.9 MX$/US$ exchange rate hedging (losses) and gains -2.8 – -28.6 – 25.8 (90.2) Metal hedging and other subsidiaries 19.0 13.6 5.4 39.7 Total Fresnillo plc 882.1 433.1 449.0 103.7 Total gross profit, net of hedging gains and losses, totalled US$882.1 million in 2016. The US$449.0 million increase in gross profit was mainly explained by: i) the favourable effect of higher metal prices (+US$167.5 million); ii) the positive impact of increased gold production at Herradura (+US$128.9 million); iii) the start-up of San Julián phase I (+US$45.8 million); iv) the 17.7% devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar (+US$45.2 million); v) higher ore grade at the Fresnillo mine (+US$29.0 million); vi) higher production at Noche Buena (+US$23.4 million); vii) the reversal of the write down of inventories at Soledad-Dipolos (+US$10.7 million); viii) the positive effect of lower hedging losses and other effects (+US$24.1 million); and ix) efficiencies achieved at some of our mines through optimisation projects and cost reduction initiatives (+US$8.6 million). The above factors were partially offset by the lower ore grades at Herradura (-US$18.9 million) and the higher depreciation (-US$15.3 million). Herradura became the largest contributor to the Group’s consolidated gross profit. Gross profit at Saucito increased by 35.6% to US$269.4 million, although its share of the Group’s consolidated gross profit declined to 31.1% in 2016. Gross profit at the Fresnillo mine rose to US$158.6 million in 2016, while the mine’s contribution to the Group’s total gross profit slightly increased to 18.3%. Noche Buena generated a gross profit of US$54.1 million, and contributed 6.2% to the Group’s consolidated gross profit. Ciénega’s share of the Group’s total gross profit increased to 5.6%, whilst San Julián contributed for the first time with 3.0%. 108 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Review continued Administrative expenses Administrative expenses decreased 5.8% from US$62.8 million to US$59.1 million due mainly to a decrease in non-recurring engineering and construction services provided by Servicios Industriales Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V., lower cost of services provided by third parties, and the positive effect of the devaluation of the Mexican peso against the US dollar in administrative expenses denominated in pesos. Exploration expenses Exploration Exploration Capitalised Capitalised expenses expenses expenses expenses Business unit/project (US$ millions) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Ciénega 14.0 20.5 – – Fresnillo 8.0 10.1 – – Herradura 13.6 11.9 – – Soledad-Dipolos – – – – Saucito 9.6 8.6 – – Noche Buena 1.3 3.7 – – San Ramón 4.3 4.5 – – San Julián 4.4 3.3 – – Orisyvo 2.2 13.3 0.2 0.4 Centauro Deep 3.2 10.0 1.0 0.4 Guanajuato 3.9 3.9 0.6 – Juanicipio 0.0 0.0 14.6 9.9 Others 56.7 50.4 0.3 0.4 TOTAL 121.2 140.2 16.7 11.1 Exploration expenses decreased by 13.6% to US$121.2 million in 2016, reflecting management’s decision to reduce the expenditure in volatile market conditions. Nonetheless, the resource base was expanded as detailed on pages 71-75. An additional US$16.7 million was capitalised in association with mining works at Juanicipio and minor equipment acquired at the Centauro Deep, Orisyvo and Guanajuato projects. As a result, total investment in exploration was US$137.9 million in 2016, a decrease of 8.9% over 2015. In 2017, total invested in exploration is expected to be approximately US$160 million, of which US$8 million is estimated to be capitalised. EBITDA 2016 2015 Change US$ million US$ million Amount % Gross Profit 882.1 433.1 451.3 104.2 + Depreciation 346.5 331.2 15.3 4.6 Administrative expenses (59.1) (62.8) (3.7) (5.8) Exploration expenses (121.2) (140.2) (19.1) (13.6) Selling expenses (16.3) (13.7) (0.1) 0.7 EBITDA 1,032.0 547.5 484.5 88.5 EBITDA margin 54.2 37.9 A gauge of the Group’s financial performance and key indicator to measure debt capacity is EBITDA, which is calculated as gross profit plus depreciation, less administrative, selling and exploration expenses. In 2016, EBITDA increased 88.5% mainly due to the higher gross profit, the higher depreciation which is added back and the lower exploration and administrative expenses. EBITDA margin expressed as a percentage of revenues increased accordingly, from 37.9% in 2015 to 54.2% in 2016. Other income and expenses Other expenses decreased by 43.4% to US$9.0 million in 2016. This included disposals of fixed assets, remediation works and costs incurred in the maintenance of closed mines. This positively compares to the US$15.9 million recorded in the 2015 income statement. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 109 Silverstream effects FRESNILLO TODAY The Silverstream contract is accounted for as a derivative financial instrument carried at fair value. The revaluation of the Silverstream contract generated a US$85.8 million non-cash gain mainly as a result of the increase in resources at the Sabinas mine and the higher forward price of silver, which were partly mitigated by the higher discount rate used. In addition, a US$47.7 million non-cash gain was generated by: i) the unwinding of the discounted values; and ii) the difference between payments (volume and price) actually received and accrued in 2016 and payments estimated in the valuation model as at 31 December 2015. The total effect recorded in the 2016 income statement was US$133.5 million, which favourably compares to the US$27.7 million registered in 2015. Since the IPO, cumulative cash received has been US$559.6 million, while total non-cash revaluation gains of US$683.8 million have been taken to the income statement. The Group expects further unrealised gains or losses will be taken to the income statement in accordance with silver price cyclicality or changes in the variables considered in valuing this contract. Further information related to the Silverstream contract is provided in the Balance Sheet section below and in notes 14 and 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Finance costs and income STRATEGIC REPORT Finance costs in 2016 decreased mainly due to the decline in accrued interest payable on the US$800 million principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes, from US$36.0 million to US$29.0 million. In 2014 we entered into gold derivative contracts to protect the value of the Penmont acquisition (see page 102). As at 31 December 2016, outstanding collar derivative instruments mature over the period of January 2017 to December 2019 and hedge gold production of 1.04 million ounces with a floor price of US$1,100 per ounce and capped weighted average price of US$1,423.76 per ounce. In 2016, we recognised changes in the time value of the outstanding hedge position, resulting in a US$41.1 million non-cash loss recorded in the income statement. Foreign exchange A foreign exchange loss of US$18.4 million was recorded in 2016 as a result of the 20.1% devaluation of the spot Mexican peso/US Dollar exchange rate at 31 December. This loss positively compares to the US$36.2 million loss recognised in 2015. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group also enters into certain exchange rate derivative instruments as part of a programme to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with the purchase of equipment denominated in Euro (EUR), Swedish krona (SEK) and Canadian dollar (CAD). At the end of the year, the total EUR, SEK and CAD outstanding net forward position was EUR 9.35 million, CAD 0.0 and SEK 7.09 million with maturity dates from March through September 2017. Volumes that expired during 2016 were EUR 2.31 million with a weighted average strike of 1.1250 US Dollar/EUR, CAD 3.86 million with a weighted average strike of 1.2629 CAD/US Dollar and SEK 14.46 million with a weighted average strike of 8.41 SEK/US Dollar, which has generated a result of US$46,627, -US$206,810 and -US$18,970 recorded in the income statement respectively. Taxation Corporate income tax expense of US$259.9 million increased 101.5% over 2015 which resulted mainly from the increase in profit generated in 2016. The effective tax rate, excluding the special mining rights, was 36.2% which was above the statutory corporate tax rate of 30%. This was mainly explained by the devaluation of the Mexican peso against the US dollar, which increased deferred income taxes, generated by higher differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities (denominated in US dollars) and their tax FINANCIAL STATEMENTS bases (denominated in Mexican pesos). Furthermore, US$33.4 million related to the special mining rights was registered in the income statement in 2016. Including the effect of mining rights, the effective tax rate was 40.8%. Profit for the year Profit for the year increased from US$69.4 million to US$425.0 million, whilst profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Group increased to US$427.0 million, up from US$70.5 million in 2015. Excluding the effects of the Silverstream Contract, profit for the year increased from US$50.0 million to US$331.5 million. Similarly, profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Group, excluding the Silverstream effects, increased to US$333.5 million, up from US$51.1 million. 110 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Review continued Cash flow A summary of the key items from the cash flow statement is set out below: 2016 2015 Amount Change US$ million US$ million US$ % Cash generated by operations before changes in working capital 1,023.3 537.3 486.0 90.5 (Increase)/decrease in working capital (10.6) 51.3 (61.9) (120.6) Taxes and employee profit sharing paid (114.8) (45.8) (69.1) 150.9 Net cash from operating activities 898.0 542.9 355.1 65.4 Silverstream contract 47.6 39.4 8.1 20.6 Purchase of property, plant & equipment (434.1) (474.7) 40.6 (8.6) Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company (88.2) (37.5) (50.7) 135.1 Net interest (paid) (21.1) (30.5) 9.5 (31.0) Net increase in cash during the period before foreign exchange differences 412.5 52.2 360.3 690.2 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at 31 December* 912.0 500.1 411.8 82.3 * As disclosed in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2016 totalled US$712.0 million and short-term investment held in fixed-term bank deposits amounted US$200.0 million. In 2015, cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2015 accounted for US$381.4 million and short-term investments amounted to US$118.7 million. Cash generated by operations before changes in working capital increased by 90.5% to US$1,023.3 million, mainly as a result of the higher profits generated in the year. Working capital increased US$10.6 million mainly due to an increase in trade and other receivables resulting from the higher volumes sold at higher metal prices (US$39.5 million). This increase in working capital was partly offset by: i) a decrease in inventories (US$23.7 million); ii) a decrease in prepayments and other assets (US$0.1 million); and iii) an increase in trade and other payables (US$5.1 million). Taxes and employee profit sharing paid increased 150.9% over 2015 to US$114.8 million. As a result of the above factors, net cash from operating activities increased significantly, from US$542.9 million in 2015 to US$898.0 million in 2016. Other sources of cash were the proceeds of the Silverstream contract of US$47.6 million and capital contributions from minority shareholders in subsidiaries of US$7.4 million. The above funds were mainly used to purchase property, plant and equipment for a total of US$434.1 million, an 8.6% decrease over 2015. This was below the guidance of US$600 million mainly as a result of the delay in commissioning San Julián phase II. Capital expenditures for 2016 are further described below: Purchase of property, plant and equipment 2016 US$ million Fresnillo mine 52.8 Mine development and purchase of in-mine equipment which includes a hoist for the deepening of the shaft, raiseboring machines, pumps and other components Saucito mine 102.4 Development, replacement of in-mine equipment and optimisation projects at the beneficiation plant Herradura mine 78.8 Stripping activities, construction of leaching pad, and sustaining capex San Julián 134.1 Completion of San Julián phase I, mine development and in-mine equipment Ciénega mine 32.7 Development, replacement of in-mine equipment, purchase of components and expansion of tailings dam Noche Buena 8.6 Construction of leaching pads and mine equipment Juanicipio project 14.6 Exploration expenditure Other 10.1 Total purchase of property, plant and equip. 434.1 Dividends paid to shareholders of the Group in 2016 totalled US$88.2 million, a 135.1% increase from 2015, in line with our dividend policy that includes a consideration of profits generated in the period. The 2016 payment included: i) the final 2015 dividend of US$24.8 million; and ii) the 2016 interim dividend paid in September of US$63.4 million. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 111 Net interest of US$21.1 million was paid, mainly reflecting the interest paid in relation with the issuance of the US$800 million principal FRESNILLO TODAY amount of 5.500% Senior Notes. The sources and uses of funds described above resulted in an increase in net cash of US$412.5 million (net increase in cash and cash equivalents), which combined with the US$500.1 million balance at the beginning of the year and the US$0.6 million unfavourable effect of the exchange rate resulted in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of US$912.0 million at the end of 2016. Balance Sheet Fresnillo plc continues to prioritise and maintain a strong, flexible financial position. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased during the year to US$912.0 million as explained above. Inventories decreased 7.9% to US$276.9 million mainly as a result of the decreased inventories of gold deposited on the leaching pads at Herradura. STRATEGIC REPORT Trade and other receivables of US$286.7 million decreased 6.2% as a result of the decrease in income tax recoverable, partly offset by higher metal volumes sold at higher prices which increased receivables. The change in the value of the Silverstream derivative from US$384.8 million at the beginning of the year to US$467.5 million as of 31 December 2016 reflects proceeds of US$50.7 million corresponding to 2016 (US$44.8 million in cash and US$5.9 million in receivables) and the Silverstream revaluation effect in the income statement of US$133.5 million. The net book value of property, plant and equipment was US$2,180.2 million at year end, representing a 1.9% increase over 2015. The US$41.6 million increase was mainly explained by the capitalised development works; construction of San Julián; purchase of additional in-mine equipment; and construction of leaching pads at Herradura. The Group’s total equity was US$2,716.4 million as of 31 December 2016, a 14.4% increase over 2015. This was mainly explained by CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the increase in retained earnings, reflecting the 2015 profit, less dividends paid during the year, and the net unrealised gains on cash flow hedges. Dividends Based on the Group’s 2016 performance, the Directors have recommended a final dividend of 21.5 US cents per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 26 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 28 April 2017. The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars. This is in addition to the interim dividend of 8.6 US cents per share totalling US$63.4 million. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 112 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 In This Section Corporate Governance overview Here we set out an at a glance summary of our governance framework. It demonstrates how the key constituents of the Board process work together. See pages 114-115 The Board This section introduces our individual Board members by providing details of the skills and experience that they bring to the Boardroom and the committees that they serve on. See pages 116-117 Corporate Governance Report The Corporate Governance Report which also includes the Nominations Committee Report and the Audit Committee Report demonstrates how the Company fulfils the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code. This report analyses the leadership provided by the Board, the steps taken to ensure that the Board is an effective one and the framework by which the Board manages relationships with shareholders. See pages 114-137 Nominations Committee Report Introduced by the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, this report outlines the Committee’s philosophy on appointments and diversity and describes the activities of the Committee during the year. See pages 126-127 Audit Committee Report Introduced by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, this report describes the Audit Committee’s work during the year by reference to the principal responsibilities of the Committee for financial reporting, external audit, risk management and internal controls, internal audit, whistleblowing procedures and related party matters. See pages 128-137 Directors’ Remuneration Report The Directors’ Remuneration Report includes an introduction from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee summarising the Committee’s overall approach to remuneration and the key discussions during the year. It also includes the new remuneration policy which will be presented for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM and the remuneration report which describes how the policy has been applied under the existing policy. See pages 138-153 Directors’ Report The Directors’ Report is prepared in accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, and sets out information that the Directors are required to present in accordance with the Act. See pages 154-155 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities This statement confirms the Directors’ responsibilities in relation to UK law and those International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union. See pages 156 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 113 Chairman’s Letter of Governance Dear Shareholder, The Board has taken time during 2016 FRESNILLO TODAY to focus on the culture of the Company. In 2016, there have been changes in the This is an important topic which has been …our collective composition of the Board and to our Board committees and with close to nine years added to the responsibilities of the Health, Safety, Environmental and Community commitment having now elapsed since our IPO, we will continue to make changes over the year Relations Committee during the year. We know that our target of achieving to good ahead, in order for us to continue to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code zero fatalities will not be achieved without having the right organisational culture to governance… in relation to the number of independent Non-executive Directors on our Board. underpin that aim and, further, the right culture supports the overall effectiveness remains as strong We have given this matter much thought during 2016 and have been discussing of the organisation. We have seen encouraging signs in this regard for as ever… the composition of the Board with some example in the use of our whistleblowing STRATEGIC REPORT of our independent shareholders. hotline and the completion of online anti-bribery and corruption training by Our Board committees have all been very virtually all our employees during the year. active during 2016. In the early part of the year, the Audit Committee led the work As ever, I am grateful to my Board and of the Board in reviewing the production management colleagues for continuing of our first Viability Statement. I am to dedicate themselves to meeting pleased to note that our Statement our collective commitment to good was well-received by shareholders and governance within Fresnillo plc. As we other observers. The Audit Committee head towards the tenth anniversary of also fulfilled another previously stated our listing on the London Stock Exchange, commitment by undertaking a thorough that commitment remains as strong tender exercise for the external auditor to as ever. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE take effect for the 2017 financial year end audit. At the conclusion of this exercise, the Yours faithfully Audit Committee unanimously determined that Ernst & Young LLP is the best firm Mr Alberto Baillères to provide external audit services to the Chairman of the Board Company and recommended this decision to the Board, who concurred and their re-appointment will be proposed at the 2017 AGM. The Remuneration Committee has been equally active in preparing for the renewal of our Directors’ remuneration policy at FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the 2017 Annual General Meeting. I am pleased that independent shareholders have always been overwhelmingly supportive of the unique Mexico-centric approach that we take to executive remuneration. Nevertheless, the Remuneration Committee has sought to ensure that emerging regulatory developments and the expectations of shareholders are taken into account as we develop the remuneration policy; but without losing sight of what the policy needs to achieve within our operational context. 114 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Fresnillo and Corporate Governance Approach UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement The Board takes corporate governance seriously and considers its responsibilities under the UK As a company with a premium listing on the Corporate Governance Code with care. With London Stock Exchange, Fresnillo is required nearly 75% of its share capital owned by Peñoles, under the FCA Listing Rules to comply with it is important to consider corporate governance the Code Provisions of the 2016 Corporate in the context of the Company’s relationship Governance Code (a copy of which can be with its Parent Company. The Board considers found on the website of the Financial Reporting this to be a strength rather than a threat because Council www.frc.org.uk) or otherwise explain it brings the shareholder perspective into the its reasons for non-compliance. Boardroom and creates an additional level of The following statement is therefore made accountability for the executive team compared in respect of the year ended 31 December to other listed companies. 2016 in compliance with such requirement. The following sections of this report explain The framework for Corporate Governance within Fresnillo plc therefore has three features which are relatively unusual for UK how the principles of the Code were applied public companies; in particular: and provide cross-references to other sections • There are no Executive Directors on the Board; however the of the report and/or the Company’s website Fresnillo Board operates differently from the traditional UK (www.fresnilloplc.com) where more detailed board with non-executive and executive directors. The nondescriptions are available. independent and independent Directors on the Board engage with the business of the Board in slightly different ways. The non-independent Directors have more regular day-to-day For the financial year ended 31 December 2016, the Company access to the executive management of Fresnillo plc within has complied with the provisions of the Code in all areas, save the Peñoles context and therefore are able to engage with in respect of two instances. proposals put forward by the Executive Committee in a more • Code Provision D.1.1 provides that the remuneration direct way. The independent Non-executive Directors bring committee should include provisions that would enable the an external perspective to bear when evaluating proposals Company to recover sums paid or withhold the payment of and conducting the business of the Board. Thus the nonany sum to senior executives, and specify the circumstances independent Directors, the independent Non-executive in which it would be appropriate to do so. Further explanation Directors and the Executive Committee have complementary of the Board’s position on malus and claw-back is set out in roles in the business of the Board. the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 145. • It is vital that the membership of the Remuneration Committee • Code Provision D.2.1 provides that the Board should establish is made up of Non-executive Directors (the majority of whom a remuneration committee of at least three independent should be independent) who are able to bring the following Non-executive Directors. The composition of the Fresnillo perspectives to the working of the Remuneration Committee: Remuneration Committee is made up of three members –– an understanding of shareholder expectations; including two independent Non-executive Directors one of –– an understanding of the evolving remuneration expectations whom, Charles Jacobs, is the Chairman of the Committee. of investors on the London Stock Exchange; and The Chairman of the Company, Alberto Baillères, who was –– an understanding of the general approaches to not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a remuneration within the Mexican market. member. The Board believes that Mr Baillères’ experience • Fresnillo plc derives synergistic benefits from services and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market provided by Peñoles. Being a part of a group which has and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration common requirements across a number of service areas, Committee’s deliberations justifies his membership of the provides opportunities for resources to be shared efficiently Remuneration Committee. Mr Baillères is not involved in from a cost point of view. The Audit Committee has therefore matters concerning his own remuneration. developed governance processes to ensure that these arrangements provide the intended benefits to the Company in a transparent and controlled manner. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 115 The role and interaction of the Board and its committees FRESNILLO TODAY The Board has delegated certain authorities to the following committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: Fresnillo plc Board Implementation of both the Group’s long-term activities and commercial strategy Audit Nominations HSECR Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Oversees all financial Makes Monitors and oversees Oversees the Group’s STRATEGIC REPORT reporting, external recommendations on all of the Group’s approach to and internal audit, the structure, size and health, safety, remuneration and sets whistleblowing, related composition of the environment and key performance party transactions and Board and its community relations indicators for the risk and internal committees and (‘HSECR’) activities Executive Committee control matters succession planning and systems for the Directors and other senior executives Executive Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Responsible for the executive management of the Group’s operations, within the strategy and budget approved by the Board Honour Commission Maintains ethical business standards within the Group Terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and HSECR Committees are available on the Company’s website (www.fresnilloplc.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/terms-of-reference). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board decision-making process Initial Proposal Internal Review Board Paper Non-Independent Directors Executive Committee The Board Chairman Independent Non-executive Directors Reporting on implementation Approval Full Board Review 116 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 The Board of Directors Non-independent Non-executive Directors Alberto Baillères Alejandro Baillères Juan Bordes Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 15 April 2008 16 April 2012 10 January 2008 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership • Nominations Committee (Chairman) N/A N/A • Remuneration Committee Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience • Long-term knowledge and • Insurance and related financial services • Senior executive (CEO-level) understanding of the Mexican in Mexico responsibilities over several years commercial environment • Broad board-level commercial • Board membership of companies • Relationships within the Mexican and experience in Mexico spanning a broad range of sectors international businesses communities and industries Executive Vice-President of Grupo BAL Over a period of 50 years, Mr Baillères and former Chief Executive Officer of During his career, Mr Bordes has has built up unprecedented experience Grupo Nacional Provincial (a leading held both senior executive management and knowledge of both the Group and insurance company in Mexico), roles and board responsibilities the Mexican markets in which it operates Mr Baillères brings knowledge and with companies spanning a number from both investor and the supervisory experience of Mexican and international of different sectors, particularly perspectives. business to his role. within Mexico. No. of meetings in year Board Alberto Baillères 1 3/4 María Asunción Aramburuzabala 2 – Alejandro Baillères 4/4 Juan Bordes 4/4 Arturo Fernández 4/4 Jaime Lomelín 4/4 Charles Jacobs 4/4 Arturo Fernández Jaime Lomelín Bárbara Garza Lagüera 3 3/4 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Fernando Ruiz 4/4 Rafael MacGregor 4 – Date of appointment Date of appointment Jaime Serra 4/4 15 April 2008 15 April 2008 Alberto Tiburcio 5 2/2 Committee membership Committee membership Guy Wilson 4/4 • HSECR Committee (Chairman) HSECR Committee 1. The Chairman was unable to attend one meeting due to illness; 2. Ms Aramburuzabala left the Board in July 2016 due Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience to other business commitments; 3. Ms Garza Lagüera was unable to attend a meeting • International economics and public • Mining and Engineering because she was in Spain to receive the 2016 Latin policy • Senior operational experience American Patron award (Premio Iberoamericano • Directorships of several Mexican within Mexico de Mecenazgo) to recognise her work in promoting the arts and culture. companies 4. Mr MacGregor left the Board in April 2016 due to Following a career in metals and mining, other business commitments. 5. Mr Tiburcio joined the Board on 4 May 2016 and was Mr Fernández’ career brings together a Mr Lomelín was Chief Executive Officer of thus only eligible to join two Board meetings in 2016. solid academic economics background, Fresnillo plc from April 2008 to 15 August many years’ experience within the 2012 when he became a Non-executive All Directors will seek re-election by Mexican public policy arena and broad Director, thus he brings senior shareholders at the forthcoming commercial experience (through board management, mining and engineering Annual General Meeting. directorships of leading businesses in experience to the Board discussions. a number of sectors in Mexico). Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 117 Independent Non-executive Directors FRESNILLO TODAY Charles Jacobs Bárbara Garza Lagüera Fernando Ruiz Senior Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Director STRATEGIC REPORT Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 16 May 2014 16 May 2014 15 April 2008 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership • Remuneration Committee (Chairman) • Nominations Committee • Audit Committee • Remuneration Committee • Nominations Committee Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience • Board and governance experience • Mexican commercial and industrial • Mexican tax and accounting experience • Legal professional with a focus on experience • International board and audit capital markets, mining and metals • International Board experience committee experience CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Through his experience as a senior As an experienced director, particularly Mr Ruiz was managing partner of Chevez, partner and chairman of global law through her career at Coca-Cola FEMSA Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C., tax advisers firm Linklaters LLP, his non-executive (KOF) and Fomento Económico and consultants in Mexico and now serves directorships at Investec and his 26 years Mexicano (FEMSA), the largest franchise on the board and audit committees of international boardroom advice, bottler of Coca-Cola products in the of several Mexican and international Mr Jacobs brings a governance, legal and world, Ms Garza Lagüera brings a broad companies. He has extensive knowledge regulatory perspective to the boardroom. experience of Mexican commercial and of Mexican tax and accounting issues. international business. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Jaime Serra Alberto Tiburcio Guy Wilson Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Director Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 16 May 2014 4 May 2016 1 July 2008 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership • Audit Committee • Audit Committee • Audit Committee (Chairman) Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience • Mexican government • Mexican audit and accountancy • International audit and accountancy • International trade and commerce • Mexican tax • UK Government and Capital Markets Following a distinguished career in Mr Tiburcio was the Chairman and CEO Following a career within Ernst & Young, Government in Mexico, with particular from January 2001 until his retirement which included 29 years as a partner, focus on international trade and industry, in June 2013 of Mancera S.C., EY’s Mr Wilson brings extensive experience Mr Serra brings a broad range of Mexican firm. He has served as statutory of international audit and accounting experience of Mexican politics and auditor and advisor to many prestigious practice, capital markets and transactions. international trade to the Board. Mexican companies and brings significant Mexican tax and accounting experience to the Board. 118 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Executive Committee Key strengths and experience The Executive Committee • Mine management within Mexico The Executive Committee comprises • UK investor relations the most senior executives within the Fresnillo Group. Over recent years it has Mr Alvídrez has extensive experience evolved in the areas of risk, business within the mining industry having conduct and safety performance. previously held the position of General Within these areas the Committee is Manager of the Madero mine, one of responsible for management of the Mexico’s largest mines operated by Company’s businesses, including the Peñoles. Mr Alvídrez joined the Peñoles implementation of decisions which Group in August 1988, since then he has have been agreed in principle by the Octavio Alvídrez held a number of senior operational and Board. It is also responsible for all Chief Executive Officer financial positions across Peñoles and executive management of the Group’s Fresnillo, including that of Treasurer, operations, within the strategy and Date of appointment Head of Investor Relations in London budget approved by the Board. 15 August 2012 and Head of Procurement. The Executive Committee has certain powers which enable it to approve Committee membership smaller transactions on behalf of the Mr Alvídrez is invited to attend Board, Board. These transactions are reported Audit Committee, HSECR Committee and explained to the Board at its next and Remuneration Committee meetings. scheduled meeting. Mario Arreguín David Giles Roberto Díaz Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Exploration Chief Operating Officer Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 15 April 2008 15 April 2008 1 November 2013 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Mr Arreguín is invited to attend Board Mr Giles is invited to attend Mr Díaz is invited to attend Board and Audit Committee Meetings Board meetings meetings and to the Audit Committee on occasions Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience • Accountancy and treasury • Senior exploration experience • Senior project and operational • Investment banking within Mexico experience • Engineering and geology background • Mining and engineering Mr Arreguín was previously employed by Peñoles where he held the position Following a 30 year career at Peñoles, Following a long career in the mining of Chief Financial Officer for 11 years Mr Giles held a number of senior industry, Mr Díaz first joined Peñoles and Group Treasurer for six years prior management positions including Vice in 1977 and, following roles with other to this. Mr Arreguín has a background President of Exploration, prior to this groups, re-joined Peñoles in 2007. in investment banking and project he worked for AMAX, Corona Gold and He has previously served as Fresnillo’s management. Toromex. He is an officer of the Society Vice President of Operations and Vice of Economic Geologists and the Mexican President of Project Development. Association of Mining Metallurgical and Geological Engineers. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 119 Board Structure The Board considers the Directors listed as being independent The Relationship Agreement FRESNILLO TODAY on page 117, to be independent in character and judgement. Peñoles has entered into a relationship agreement with For each of these Directors, their circumstances are assessed by the Company (the ‘Relationship Agreement’) to ensure that reference to Provision B.1.1. of the Corporate Governance Code relationships between the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group (the ‘Code’) and the Board remains satisfied that they are each are conducted at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms. independent when the standards set out in Code Provision B.1.1 Further information regarding the Relationship Agreement can are taken into account. be found on page 123. The non-independent Directors listed above have been appointed to the Board by Peñoles pursuant Additional disclosure on independence to the Relationship Agreement. Charles Jacobs is a worldwide senior partner and chairman of Linklaters LLP worldwide. Mr Jacobs is not involved in the Chairman’s independence provision of legal or any other services to the Company by The Chairman, Mr Baillères, is beneficially interested in more Linklaters LLP. than 50% of the share capital of the Company through his interest in Industrias Peñoles S.A.B. de C.V., the Company’s controlling STRATEGIC REPORT Linklaters LLP was the Company’s UK legal adviser for its London shareholder. Mr Baillères is also the Chairman of Peñoles and IPO in 2008 and is currently one of the Company’s legal advisers other companies within the BAL Group. where any such advice is limited to English law, provided by a different partner of Linklaters LLP. Selection of legal advisers Mr Baillères was appointed to the Board by Peñoles pursuant to is not a Board matter and is decided at the management level. the Relationship Agreement, thus at the time of his appointment None of the Fresnillo management sit on the Board. However, was not independent. Having been responsible for overseeing if any decision were to be made at the Board level regarding of the successful development of the Group over many years, Linklaters LLP, which has not happened to date, Mr Jacobs would the Board considers that his continued involvement as its Nonexcuse himself in accordance with the provisions of the Companies executive Chairman is very important to the continued success Act 2006 relating to Directors’ interests. of the Company. Mr Jacobs does not have, and has not had within the last three The Relationship Agreement continues to provide a transparent years, a material business relationship with the Company either governance system, which ensures that the Company benefits CORPORATE GOVERNANCE directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior employee from Mr Baillères’ leadership and experience whilst being able of a body that has such a relationship with the Company. By way to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is of illustration, the legal fees paid to Linklaters LLP for the last three capable of carrying on its business independently. In particular, the financial years were £90k for the year ended 31 December 2014, Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships £177k for the year ended 31 December 2015 and £148k for the between the Fresnillo Group and its controlling shareholder are at year ended 31 December 2016. The Audit Committee reviews arm’s length and on competitive commercial terms. the appropriateness of all professional advisers’ fees each year including legal fees as part of their review of ordinary course Board roles of business expenses. The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer are recognised and the requirements for these roles have been Fernando Ruiz has, since 2008, been a retired partner and specified in writing and agreed by the Board in the Statement consultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C., a firm of Responsibilities. Octavio Alvídrez, the Chief Executive Officer, providing professional services to the Company. Mr Ruiz was is not currently a member of the Board. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS not involved in the provision of such services to the Company by Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C., prior to his retirement. Charles Jacobs, the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved Alberto Tiburcio retired as a Chairman and Chief Executive through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of Mancera S.C., EY’s Mexican firm, which is the Company’s Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations. auditor, in 2013. Mr Tiburcio was not involved in the provision The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure of audit or any other services to the Company by Mancera S.C. that no one individual can dominate the decision-making prior to his retirement. processes of the Board. Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s auditor in 2008. Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement. Board composition: gender split Board composition: experience Key Key Male10 Finance and tax 4 Female1 UK capital markets and legal 2 Political and public policy 2 Mining1 Mexican business 9 International business 7 120 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Effectiveness Board process Between Board meetings Directors are provided with The Board supervises the management of the Group’s activities, information on important developments and issues such as: including the implementation of both the Group’s long-term • Reports on safety and fatalities. plans and commercial strategy. In addition, the Board provides • Important developments re projects/transactions. leadership to the Fresnillo Group setting the key values by which • Distribution of relevant information on the precious the Group will continue to operate. The Board has a formal metals sector. schedule of matters reserved for its approval which includes approvals of major expenditure, investments and key policies. Directors have the right to raise concerns at Board meetings, and The schedule is annually reviewed to keep it up to date with any can ask for those concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes. regulatory developments. The last review and revision was in The advice and services of the Company Secretary (whose October 2016. appointment and removal is a matter reserved for the Board) are also available to the Directors. The Group has also established a All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico. The Board meets procedure which enables, in relevant circumstances, Directors to a minimum of four times a year and has a well-established obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. programme of meetings. Corporate Code of Conduct The Company Secretary prepares the agenda for the Chairman’s The Corporate Code of Conduct was updated during 2016, serving approval, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the as a guideline for all Directors, executives, employees and related Chief Financial Officer. Papers are prepared by members of the third parties (clients, suppliers and the community) to act in Executive Committee to be presented to the Board for discussion. accordance with the Code. The Code helps to ensure a foundation When preparing such papers, the factors set out in section 172 of values, and works as a guide for behaviour that encourages of the Companies Act 2006 are taken into account. Any matters an environment of ethics and responsibility for the benefit of our that only require Executive Committee approval are nevertheless stakeholders. It serves to complement the internal and external reported to the Board. Members of the Executive Committee meet regulations already in force and also to establish corrective with non-independent Directors prior to each Board meeting to measures for anyone who fails to comply with the provisions review proposals due to be submitted to the whole Board. Such of the Code. review discussions are minuted and copies of the minutes are circulated to all of the Directors. The Fresnillo Board and culture During 2016, Fresnillo continued its focus on the organisational Board members usually receive Board papers five days prior to culture and ethics programme. The Board received a presentation meetings in order to enable the Directors adequate time to study on proposed management initiatives to embed strong ethics in the and consider the documents. culture and as a core competence in the organisational structure to enable the Company to achieve its key targets, for example zero Members of the Executive Committee, led by the Chief Executive fatalities as a safety objective. Officer, are present at all of the Board meetings, and present all of the papers on operational and financial matters. The only A four-pronged programme encompassing the entire workforce exceptions to this are discussions over management succession, has been implemented, aimed at reinforcing the desired ethical and the annual Board evaluation report discussion. At every behaviours through: (i) sponsorship and leadership for cultural meeting, the Board considers the following items: change from senior management; (ii) promoting ethical decision • Directors interests. making (iii) managing incentives; and (iv) developing an open • Chief Executive’s Report. culture which encourages whistleblowing. • Financial Report. • Board Committee Reports. The Board will receive regular updates on the initiatives and • Risk, Internal Control and Anti Bribery and Corruption update. the metrics for monitoring of the programme. • Investor Relations and Corporate Communications update. • Legal and Company Secretarial Report (including The HSECR Committee has been given responsibility for litigation update). overseeing the programme on behalf of the Board, which will review the progress of the programme in detail at one of its meetings each year. Board process in summary Internal Board Paper Circulation Presentation Agenda Review of Process Preparation of Papers of Papers Papers Chairman NonCEO CEO independent Executive CFO Executive Responsibility CFO Directors and Committee Company Committee Company Executive Secretary Committee Secretary Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 121 Key Strategy Industry Activities Board programme Investor relations & FRESNILLO TODAY 2016 & strategy industry activities • Publication of the production report January followed by investor conference calls • Review of 2015 Board Evaluation Report February and associated Action Plan • Report on Hedging Programme • Implementation, Culture and Values training software • Budget update • Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties • Review of system of internal control STRATEGIC REPORT • Review of Going Concern • Review of Annual Report • Approval of 2015 Results and Annual Report • Roadshow following the preliminary March results announcement and presentation: UK, US, Canada Nordea mining reverse roadshow • Citi Global Resources Conference • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme • Publication of the production report April followed by investor conference calls • Market Abuse Regulation implementation • Board lunch and strategy discussion • Canaccord Mining Forum CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Supply and Demand dynamics which determine underlying silver price • Annual General Meeting • BTG Pactual Latin Opportunities May Conference • HSBC LatAM Investor Forum June • Approval of interim results • Conference calls following the July production report announcement. • Review of Going Concern • Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties • Major Investor Analysis • Market Abuse Regulation implementation FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Approach to 2016 Board evaluation • Roadshow following the half-yearly results August announcement and presentation: UK • Site visit September • Denver Gold Forum • Morgan Stanley Industrials and Natural Resources Summit • Deutsche Bank Metals and Mining Conference • Approval of Met-Mex rates for 2016 • Publication of the production report October followed by investor conference calls • Approval of 2017 business plan and budget • Board evaluation • Review of Viability Statement process and key assumptions • Long-term strategy • Organisational Culture and Ethics Programme • UBS mining reverse roadshow November • JP Morgan Best of British Conference December 122 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Effectiveness continued Board performance evaluation In order to evaluate its own effectiveness, the Board undertakes annual appraisals using a combination of externally facilitated and internally run evaluations over a three-year cycle. The cycle of the Board’s evaluations is summarised as follows: Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 External Board evaluation (approach Follow-up on action plan from Focus on outstanding and emerging agreed with Chairman) externally facilitated evaluation issues arising from Action Plan Board evaluation in 2016 During 2016, which was the third year in the cycle, the Company used an internally facilitated evaluation focusing on the emerging issues and any outstanding outcomes and subsequent actions taken in 2015 in response to the 2014 external evaluation. The outcomes from the 2016 evaluation exercise are set out below. Key responses 2016 2016 evaluation comments initiated in 2015 progress and any further action The format and information contained Further improvements and refinements to A further review of key Board papers in Board papers will be refined to help the Board papers have been made in 2016. will be conducted in 2017 with assistance focus discussion on key issues and risks, The Board members continue to monitor from four Non-executive Directors. particularly in relation to the performance the suitability and format of the papers The Audit Committee to review a and risk profile of key projects. during 2016. protocol for post-implementation reviews on projects. More time in Board meetings will be Long-term strategy was an agenda The Board recognise the importance devoted to discussion of long-term item at the October Board meeting. of discussions and presentations on the strategic considerations (up to five years). Sustainability Strategy was reviewed long-term strategy. at the April Board meeting. Enable Directors to understand the control A presentation on the organisational and Continue to review and develop in 2017. and culture of the organisation more easily. culture and ethics programme initiated Culture and ethics metrics to be further in 2013 was given at the October 2016 developed and included in the CEO’s Board meeting and the Corporate Code report to the Board. of Conduct has been updated. In 2017, Fresnillo will be initiating a new three-year Board evaluation cycle, with an externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise. Audit Committee evaluation The Audit Committee has undertaken an internally facilitated evaluation in 2016, details of which are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 137. Other committee evaluations The Nomination and Remuneration Committees undertake self-evaluation on an annual basis but given the relatively straightforward nature of their work, have not considered it necessary to use external facilitation for their reviews. Such reviews were conducted by both of these Committees in 2016. Individual performance reviews Non-executive Directors occasionally meet the Chairman without executives being present. The independent Non-executive Directors meet annually in order to evaluate the performance of the Chairman. On the back of this meeting, the Senior Independent Director discusses the views of the independent Directors with the Chairman. The Independent Directors held this meeting in 2016 after the February meeting and took the 2015 Board Evaluation review into account in their discussions and feedback to the Chairman. Board development Senior management present on the Group’s strategic initiatives to provide the Non-executive Directors with more information about the broader context to the Company’s activities. In addition there is a regular distribution of industry briefings on technical, market and sector issues. Directors are encouraged to visit the Company’s mines to familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Group’s operations. Briefings were arranged for all Directors from the Company’s advisers. These include presentations which were aimed at familiarising the Directors with the duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company. In addition, the Chairman meets with Directors to discuss any training or development needs. These usually take place as part of Board or committee evaluation exercises. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 123 Relationship Agreement FRESNILLO TODAY The Relationship Agreement complies with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.4DR for controlled companies. The Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement during the financial year ended 31 December 2016. As far as the Company is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the financial year ended 31 December 2016 by Peñoles and/or any of its associates. Peñoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend the Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement. It has also agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a ‘related party transaction’ (as defined in paragraph 11.1.5 R of the Listing Rules) involving any member of the Peñoles Group. The following diagram summarises the approach taken to identify and manage related party transactions. Identifying Directors’ interests STRATEGIC REPORT Process How this is managed Responsibility Monitoring of If a Director is interested in a company which could potentially enter into Directors Directors’ interests transactions with a Fresnillo plc Group company, the Board will normally consider that interest under its arrangements for authorising conflicts of interest under s175 of Companies Act. Managing a related party transaction Proposed Ongoing monitoring of Directors’ interests and related parties of the Company transaction provides the information to determine if a related party approval is required CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for a proposed transaction. Process How this is managed Responsibility Contract The Executive Committee will seek to ensure that the best possible terms Fresnillo negotiation and are achieved for a proposed transaction and that they are verified by industry management verification benchmarking reports or independent valuation/assessment. and Executive Committee Process How this is managed Responsibility Financial scrutiny The Audit Committee reviews the key terms of major transactions which are verified Audit as to price and quality with external consultants or independent benchmarking Committee FINANCIAL STATEMENTS where possible. Process How this is managed Responsibility Independent Under the Relationship Agreement, the Independent Directors must approve any Independent Director approval transaction with the Peñoles Group and its associates without the non-independent Directors Directors voting. Conflicts of interest The Group requires that Directors complete a ‘Director’s List’. The list sets out details of situations where each Director’s interest may conflict with those of the Company (situational conflicts). Each Director has re-submitted their list as at 31 December 2016 for the Board to consider and authorise any new situational conflicts identified in the re-submitted lists. 124 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Relations with Shareholders The Board continually monitors the interests of the Company’s The Company plans to hold meetings with major shareholders minority shareholders, in order to ensure that those interests are and analysts at least twice a year. This is done to give the investors being properly respected, and that they are aligned with those of and analysts the chance to discuss the results of the Group whilst the major shareholders. As explained on page 123 procedures for also giving them an opportunity to raise any queries or concerns dealing with transactions with related parties, as well as Directors’ they may have. The Senior Independent Director, Charles Jacobs conflicts of interest, are repeatedly appraised and maintained by intends to continue to attend such meetings in order to sustain the Board. good communications between shareholders and the Company. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also The Company has an office in London where the Head of Investor meet with analysts, conference calls after production reports Relations is based. During 2016, the Group implemented a strong and shareholders by participating in the major roadshows after communications and investor relations programme, as detailed preliminary and half yearly results are announced. They are joined in the diagram below. by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these visits. The table below outlines some examples of the discussion points at such meetings and the response from the Company. Fresnillo mine turnaround plan progress Clear explanation of the measures taken while outlining the reasons for progressing at a slower than anticipated pace. San Julián Updates on the start-up of phase I, explanations behind the delay in phase II, details of the expected ramp-up schedule and the principal statistics of the project. Performance at Saucito and Herradura/at other operating mines Update on the capacity optimisation at Saucito while also addressing the debottlenecking process at Herradura by increasing the processing capacity, thus decreasing gold inventories on the leaching pads. Projects approved Rationale for the resumption of the pyrites project in addition to the approval of the second line of the DLP at Herradura increasing efficiencies as sulphides found deeper in the pit are processed. Exchange rate effects Clear and detailed articulation of the different exchange rate effects on production costs in conjunction with other line items in the income statement. Costs Detailed breakdown of cost metrics on a year-by-year basis highlighting and clarifying variations; cost inflation/deflation by component. Capital allocation: capex vs. dividends Emphasising the company’s unchanged Dividend policy while reiterating our aim of balancing quality growth with returns across the cycle. Production profiles and long-term goals Continue to highlight the long-term goals for 2018 with special emphasis on securing the reserves to maintain that level of production for ten years. The Head of Investor Relations in London is tasked with Geographical shareholder base maintaining existing relations with analysts and major shareholders, The following graph demonstrates the Company’s global appeal which is done by way of telephone calls and meetings. The with a significant shift since IPO in 2008 from a predominantly Company also attends a full programme of mining conferences in UK shareholder base. order to meet with current and prospective investors. Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained through the Investor Relations Office in Mexico City. The Chief Financial Officer gives a report at Key United Kingdom Europe each Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity. North America Rest of the world % 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 IPO 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 125 Major interests in shares 2017 Annual General Meeting FRESNILLO TODAY As at 27 February 2017, the Company had been advised of the The Company’s ninth Annual General Meeting will be held on following notifiable interests (whether directly or indirectly held) 23 May 2017 at 12.00 noon. The business of the Annual General in its voting rights: Meeting (‘AGM’) will be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.7.1, B.7.2, E.2.1 and E.2.2 of the Code. The Chairman Number of voting rights % of the Board and the chairmen of each of the Board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by Industrias Penoles SAB de CV 552,595,191 74.99 shareholders of the Company. The Annual Report and Accounts BlackRock Inc 39,997,160 5.42 and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the First Eagle Investment meeting. In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes Management LLC 34,857,166 4.73 account of institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share buy‑backs and shareholder rights in relation to 2016 Annual General Meeting general meetings when drafting the usual resolutions dealing with STRATEGIC REPORT At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, all resolutions put to those matters. In each case, resolutions are presented to the AGM shareholders were passed by a majority. As such, the Company to give the Board flexibility to respond to market developments. did not deem it necessary to specifically engage with shareholders over any of the items of business of the AGM. In accordance with Authority to purchase own shares changes to the UK Listing Rules applicable to companies with a The Company was authorised by a shareholders’ resolution controlling shareholder, the resolutions relating to the re-election passed at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2016 to of the independent Non-executive Directors required approval purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital. Any shares by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as well which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, as all the shareholders of the Company. if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Company’s Further to the Code provisions, details of proxy voting are issued and authorised share capital. This authority will expire at the presented at the AGM and final figures are announced to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew London Stock Exchange and uploaded to the Company’s website the authority for a further year will be proposed. No shares were CORPORATE GOVERNANCE as soon practicable after the AGM. purchased by the Company during the year. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 126 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, During 2016, there were changes on the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc with two of our Directors resigning due to other commitments. The Nominations Committee has for some time been mindful that we are in a phase during which the refreshing of the Board needs to take place, particularly as some of our independent Non-executive Directors reach the ninth anniversary of their appointment. The possible options for further appointments to the Board have therefore been the principal focus of the Committee during 2016. As part of that process, the Committee made a recommendation to the Board to appoint Alberto Tiburcio as an additional independent Non-executive Director and I am particularly pleased to welcome him to the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee. Whilst we are mindful that further new appointments to the Board will be required, our primary objective in this process will be the We remain strongly appointment of the right people at the right time. committed to the principle During 2016, we have also considered the membership of our Board committees as a result of which Arturo Fernandez has now of equality of opportunity taken over as Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee. In addition, Charles Jacobs when considering new was appointed as the Senior Independent Director. I am grateful to Guy Wilson for having undertaken that role previously. appointments to the Although one of our female Directors left the Board in 2016, we remain strongly committed to the principle of equality of Board and I hope that we opportunity when considering new appointments to the Board and I hope that we will be able to demonstrate that commitment will be able to demonstrate when future Board appointments are made. that commitment when Yours faithfully future board appointments Mr Alberto Baillères Chairman of the Nominations Committee are made. Mr Alberto Baillères Chairman of the Nominations Committee Membership The Nominations Committee has approved Board Appointments The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillères and Board Diversity Policies which provide the framework (Chairman of the Committee), Barbara Garza Lagüera and for the Nominations Committee and the Board’s approach Fernando Ruiz. The majority of the members of the Nominations to Board appointments. Committee are, therefore, independent Non-executive Directors. Attendance Role Mr Alberto Baillères 2/2 The Nominations Committee is responsible for making Mr Fernando Ruiz 2/2 recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and succession Ms Barbara Garza Lagüera 1/2 planning for the Directors and other senior executives. Before making appointments of new Directors, the Committee is responsible Ms Garza Lagüera was unable to attend one meeting of the for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Committee because she was presented with an international on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates. award for her cultural work in Spain on the same day as the Committee meeting. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 127 Nominations Committee Activity during 2016 FRESNILLO TODAY The Nominations Committee met twice during the year. Board Appointments Policy and Process in summary The Nominations Committee and Board are committed to the Board appointments principle of appointments to the Board being made on the basis The Nominations Committee is committed to a progressive of merit. The Committee continues to consider the composition of refreshing of the Board, as recommended by Code Provision the Board with a focus on its continued commitment to diversity. B.2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. The criteria for determining the composition of the Board and There have been three changes to the Board during 2016, Mr Alberto future Board appointments continue to be based on: Tiburcio was appointed to the board and Ms María Asunción • Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments to the Aramburuzabala and Mr Rafael MacGregor resigned during the year. Board by Peñoles. The Nominations Committee has continued to discuss future Board • The Company’s leading position as a precious metals miner appointments with emphasis being placed on the gender balance of in Mexico. the Board and the independence of future appointees to the Board. • The Company’s inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index. STRATEGIC REPORT • The specific functions on Board committees which independent Committee membership Directors will be required to fulfil. Following some changes to the membership of the Board • The provisions set out in the current terms of reference of the committees in 2016 as a result of changes to the membership of the Nominations Committee. Board itself, the Nominations Committee reviewed the composition and effectiveness of the Board committees in 2016 and was satisfied The Nominations Committee does not use open advertising or that the Committees are working well. The Nominations Committee retain any external consultants when making new appointments approved the appointment of Arturo Fernandez as Chairman of the to the Board as it is considered unnecessary considering the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee, Company’s contacts within Mexico. following the resignation of Rafael MacGregor, and it will appoint another member of that Committee to replace Maria Asuncion Board Diversity Policy in summary and progress Aramburuzabala in due course. All Board appointments are made on merit. The Board recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board; particularly CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Executive succession planning the value that different perspectives and experience bring to the Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews a schedule quality of Board debate and decision-making. There are certain of possible successors for all the positions on the Executive considerations which are taken into account in considering the Committee (Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice composition of the Board such as: background and experience; President of Exploration and Chief Operating Officer). This review age; gender; and shareholder perspectives. considers both short-term emergency and long-term planning scenarios. Any actions needed to support the development of The Board believes that setting targets for the number of people potential long-term successors are discussed. The Nominations from a particular background or gender is not the most effective Committee also monitors the long-term evolution of the approach to take. The Board will therefore look to follow the membership of the Board as a whole. These matters were principles of this policy rather than specified quotas or targets. all discussed by the Nominations Committee in 2016 and it is Of the six new Directors that have been appointed to the Board satisfied with the actions that are being taken to support this. since 2012, two have been women, demonstrating the Nominations Committee and the Board’s commitment to gender diversity. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Nominations Committee Activity One member of the Nominations Committee itself is female. The Nominations Committee also considered the following matters: • The appointment of Charles Jacobs as Senior Independent The Board recognises that very few women are attracted to mining Director. engineering and geology academic programmes in Mexico and, • Approval of the 2016 Nominations Committee Report prior in view of the stage of development of Mexico, the participation to publication. of women in the labour force as a whole is still relatively low. • The time commitment required from each Director. This will take time to rectify but it is changing and the Company • The proposed re-election of each of the continuing Directors is committed to hiring and developing women with educational at the AGM. training in mining engineering, geology, finance and accounting. • A self-evaluation exercise (which concluded that the Nominations Committee is functioning well). Full versions of the Board Appointments Policy and Process and the Board Diversity Policy, can be found on the Company’s website The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are (www.fresnilloplc.com). available on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc.com. The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made available for inspection at the Company’s registered office, during normal business hours. 128 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, This year has seen further increases in the responsibilities of Audit Committees following implementation of the EU Audit Reform and UK Financial Reporting Council’s guidance. In addition, a significant amount of time was involved in the conduct of an efficient and effective audit tender process, the details and outcome of which are set out later in this report. Last year, in addition to our primary task of the oversight of financial accounting and reporting together with internal controls, concentrating on the financial judgements in the financial statements, I outlined four priorities for your Audit Committee in 2016. I now comment on progress so far in the table below. In the light of an external evaluation of your Audit Committee in 2017, we conducted a thorough internal evaluation using a We are performing our lengthy questionnaire which was completed by all of us, the Chief Financial Officer and the Financial Controller, Internal Audit and core duties in relation to EY, our external auditor. The conclusions of this evaluation are that we are performing our core duties in relation to financial financial reporting, external reporting, external audit, risk and internal control, internal audit, whistleblowing and related parties well, albeit that we recognise audit, risk and internal the necessity to strive for continuous improvement. We did, however, identify four activities for us to concentrate on in 2017 control, internal audit, which are set out in detail later in this report. In addition, the Board have also asked the Audit Committee to review its post-investment review process. whistleblowing and related I had intended to visit our new operation San Julián this year parties, albeit that we but our additional workload made that impractical. I do, however, intend to go this year with the benefit that I will be able to go once recognise the necessity the second and final stage of the operation is complete. to strive for continuous In closing, we have welcomed Alberto Tiburcio as a fourth member of our Committee and together with Fernando Ruiz and Jaime improvement. Serra, I believe we are now an even more effective Audit Committee. Yours faithfully Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee 2016 priorities Progress Continuing to encourage management to challenge the The assumptions underpinning the various scenarios remain sound, assumptions underpinning the long-term viability of the but we have encouraged management to expand the statement Group to ensure that the Board can remain confident to explain what management and the Board would do in the event about the Group’s long-term viability. of any such scenario occurring. Continuing to encourage management to enhance the Management has achieved a satisfactory level of understanding transparency of the effectiveness of the internal controls of the risks and related controls throughout all our operations, over the identified risks to enable the Board to have continued moreover, the Board now receives a quarterly report of significant confidence in our process. movements in the risk profile and a summary of any significant control weaknesses identified by internal audit. Continue to challenge management’s progress to implement Good progress has been made in the management of both IT improvements to underpin the corporate strategy and recurring annual maintenance expenditure and the cost of new ensure that such enhancements are cost effective. improvements. Further work, however needs to be done to clarify the risk profiles and related internal controls in order to achieve relevant industry standards. Conduct an effective and efficient audit tender. See full details of the process and outcome set out later in this report. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 129 Audit Committee FRESNILLO TODAY Composition The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2016 were Guy Wilson (Chairman of the Committee), Fernando Ruiz, Jaime Serra and Alberto Tiburcio (appointed on 4 May 2016). Financial and auditing experience Sector experience Guy Wilson Previously a partner at EY (UK) with Previously an adviser to several UK (appointed 1 July 2008) international audit, accountancy and capital extractive industry company boards. transaction experience. Fernando Ruiz Retired Partner at Chavez, a leading Mexican Previously a director of Grupo Mexico (appointed 15 April 2008) tax consultancy, with many years’ knowledge (mining company in Mexico). of the Mexican legal and tax environment. Jaime Serra Previously Secretary of Finance in the Political insight through the various roles STRATEGIC REPORT (appointed 16 May 2014) Mexican Government. held in Government. Alberto Tiburcio Previously Chairman and CEO of EY Previously a director of Pemex. (appointed 4 May 2016) (Mexico). The Audit Committee regularly monitors its own training and Attendance development needs. Following his appointment to the Audit Mr Guy Wilson 5/5 Committee, Alberto Tiburcio underwent an induction programme which included briefings with the Chairman of the Committee and Mr Fernando Ruiz 4/5 the Company Secretary, meetings with the executive management Mr Jaime Serra 4/5 team and briefings from the Company’s legal advisers and external auditor. Mr Alberto Tiburcio 3/3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Chief Financial Officer and representatives from external and Messrs Ruiz and Serra were unable to attend one meeting internal audit attend all meetings. The Chief Executive Officer, each of the Audit Committee due to a clash with other business other members of the Executive Committee and management commitments. Mr Tiburcio joined the Audit Committee on 4 May attend where appropriate and external advisors attend for specific 2016 and was therefore only eligible to attend three meetings matters if relevant. of the Audit Committee. The activity of the Audit Committee in 2016 The role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met five times during 2016. Its programme The role and duties of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of activity is determined at the beginning of each year and is of reference, a copy of which can be found on the Company’s structured to ensure that it reviews all of the activities set out website at www.fresnilloplc.com. The Audit Committee has six in its terms of reference. primary responsibilities: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Reporting Internal Audit Overseeing the Company’s financial Overseeing the work and findings reporting to shareholders. of the internal audit team. External Audit Whistleblowing Overseeing the Company’s relationship Overseeing the effectiveness of the with its external auditor. Company’s whistleblower scheme. Risk and Internal Control Related Parties Overseeing risk, internal control, Overseeing financial aspects of the going concern and viability. relationship with related parties. In addition, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring its own effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit functions in the context of the Company’s overall risk management system. Effectiveness Monitoring the Audit Committees’ effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit functions. 130 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Audit Committee Report continued Financial Reporting First half of 2016 Second half of 2016 • Review of the financial statements for the year ending • Review of interim financial statements for 2016 and Interim 31 December 2015 and Annual Report. Announcement. • Review of approach to Tax and PTU. • Review of 2016 year end reporting plan. • Review of Payments to Government disclosure. • Review of plan for preparing the financial statements and Annual Report for the year ending 31 December 2016 (early 2017). In undertaking its review of the 2016 half-yearly report, the Audit In 2015, the Audit Committee reported specifically on its review Committee sought to ensure that there was consistency between of hedging, impairment and going concern as judgemental the policies and judgements used in preparing the full-year and areas. These are aspects of financial reporting which the Audit half-year financial statements. Prior to recommending both the Committee consider to be less significant as judgemental areas in half-year and the full-year financial statements to the Board 2016 because the Company is no longer hedging Mexican peso/ for approval, the Audit Committee, with the assistance of US dollar exchange rate differences and higher metal prices have management and EY, identified a number of areas of particular substantially increased the level of headroom for both the focus. These are outlined in the table below. impairment and going concern tests. Significant judgement areas in 2016 Mineral reserves and resources The estimation of mineral reserves and resources requires significant The Committee reviewed the report by SRK Consulting (the judgement not only in respect of mineral physically in place but also Company’s independent reserves and resources auditor) on the metal price and cost assumptions determine the cut-off grade for reserves and resources (excluding Silverstream) and considered identifying economically viable ore bodies. the year-on-year changes in SRK’s estimation of reserves Reserves and resources are a primary driver of Fresnillo’s market and resources quantities. The Committee also reviewed the valuation and a significant input into assessments of depreciation methodology used by EY to assess the SRK reporting and the and impairment. As a result, inaccuracies in the estimation of reserves commentary on reserves and resources within the Annual Report. and resources would lead to broad implications across the Annual The Audit Committee is satisfied that the review process itself Report and Accounts. and that the Company’s disclosures are appropriate. See pages 242 to 246 Silverstream The Silverstream contract is a derivative financial instrument The Audit Committee reviewed the inputs into the estimation which must be reflected at fair value at each balance sheet date. of the valuation at the balance sheet date and associated The fair value is most sensitive to the timing and volume of forecast sensitivity analysis. It also reviewed the disclosures relating to production derived from the reserves and resources and production the Silverstream contract and discussed with EY their procedures profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated future silver price and for auditing the accuracy of the model used in the valuation and the discount rate. the key assumptions therein. The Silverstream contract represents a large asset on our balance The Audit Committee is satisfied that the related gain sheet which can also, as a result of movements in metals prices, on the Silverstream Contract is acceptable and that give rise to large, albeit non-cash, amounts in our income statement. the accounting treatment and disclosure in the financial statements is appropriate. See note 14 to the financial statements Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 131 Related party transactions including revenue recognition FRESNILLO TODAY Fresnillo has a controlling shareholder and as a result has Every year, the Audit Committee scrutinises the probity of all very strong ties both to Peñoles and the broader BAL group. major related party transactions to ensure that they are entered There is a risk that related party relationships could be taken into transparently and fairly to all shareholders. (See the section advantage of to manipulate earnings or otherwise distort our of this report headed ‘Transactions with Related Parties’). financial position. The Audit Committee reviews EY’s procedures to ensure revenue Furthermore related party transaction disclosure requirements allow is recognised accurately and the relevant disclosures in the investors to understand the Company’s exposure to inappropriate Annual Report, to ensure that they are consistent with the related party transactions and there is a risk that disclosures in our information it is presented with during the year. financial statements could be inaccurate or incomplete. The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of Related Party Transactions in the financial statements. STRATEGIC REPORT See note 27 to the financial statements Taxation and PTU The taxation of mining companies in Mexico has been the subject In reviewing both taxation and PTU, the Committee reviews of much attention and governmental action in Mexico. In accordance all the significant judgements and adjustments applied in with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay determining profit subject to taxation or PTU for each subsidiary for employee profit sharing (‘PTU’) equivalent to 10% of the taxable which are clearly set out in papers prepared by management. income of each fiscal year. The Committee challenges management’s and EY’s views and There is a risk that deductions taken when calculating tax and ascertains the degree to which such adjustments are supported PTU charges may be challenged, and that any resulting exposures by internal and/or external subject matter experts. to payable taxation and PTU may not have been provided for The Audit Committee was satisfied that the stated charges appropriately. In addition, certain tax assets and liabilities are for taxation and PTU are fair and reasonable under current Mexican tax law and financial reporting standards. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE denominated in Mexican pesos and may be revalued during the period, resulting in foreign exchange gains or losses. See note 10 to the financial statements The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that shareholders have adequate information to conclude that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are fair and reasonable. Licences and land title The Audit Committee consider whether the Company continues to The Audit Committee has oversight over the progress of the have a robust process to ensure that all required legal documentation land title review and throughout the year has received verbal is completed correctly on acquisition of land titles particularly in light and written reports from the Company’s Head of Legal on of recent litigation and ejido activity. The specific questions arising the process. from this are: (i) whether there are factors which may give rise to The review is largely complete. To date, apart from the issues asset impairment; (ii) whether the level of legal provisions and arising from ongoing ejido litigation (on which the Audit FINANCIAL STATEMENTS narrative disclosures in the accounts are adequate; and (iii) Committee has received regular updates from the Head of Legal), whether/when the Group would be able to resume operations which are being addressed, nothing significant has emerged. at Soledad-Dipolos. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the amount of the mining assets at 31 December 2016 is not overstated when taking into consideration the currently available information and that relevant disclosures throughout the Annual Report are appropriate. See note 12 to the financial statements Ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable Two weeks prior to the Annual Report and financial statements for the year-ended 31 December 2016 being approved by the Board, members of the Audit Committee and other Directors reviewed an earlier draft enabling them to assess whether the information was consistent with their understanding of the Company’s business. Suggested changes put forward by those Directors based on knowledge obtained through Board and Audit Committee papers and discussion and their other interactions with management are also taken into account in the final version of the Annual Report. These included observations on the strategic report arising from a comparison with the disclosures in the financial statements to ensure consistency. The Board therefore considers that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable. 132 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Audit Committee Report continued External Audit Ordinary course activity during 2016 2015 full-year 2016 interim 2016 full-year • Review EY report following completion • Discussion with EY of the findings from • Considering at the planning stage of the audit for the year ended their review of interim results for the of the audit whether any changes 31 December 2015. period ended 30 June 2016. were required to the existing • Meeting of Committee members with EY • Meeting of Committee members with accounting policies. without management present. EY without management present. • Review and approval of the external • Review of the representation letter given • Review 2016 half-year representation audit plan, fees and terms of audit to EY for the 2015 full-year audit. letter given to EY. engagement. • Review effectiveness of the 2015 full-year • Consideration of the independence, audit process. objectivity and qualifications of EY as external auditor. • Recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of EY as auditors at AGM. • Review of the October hard-close audit findings. • Subsequent review of letter from EY to management providing their • Review of policy on the provision of observations and opportunities arising non-audit services by the external from the 2015 audit process and auditor and approvals. management responses to same. • Review of external audit report on the • Review of Financial Reporting Council financial statements and Annual Report Report on EY as a firm in respect of for the year ending 31 December 2016. 2015 Annual Reports. During 2016, the members of the Audit Committee met twice with representatives from EY without management present and once with management without representatives of EY present, to ensure that there are no issues in the relationship between management and the external auditor which it should address. There were none. External auditor tender During 2016 a rigorous tender process for the external audit for the financial year beginning 1 January 2017 was conducted (see the section headed external audit tender, below). Appointment of the external auditor External audit tender In February 2016, the Audit Committee considered and During 2016, the Audit Committee undertook an external audit recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor, EY, to tender exercise. The existing auditor, EY was invited to tender in the Board prior to the Company’s Annual General Meeting. This the process as this was permitted by current legislation given that review took into account the results of the auditor assessment EY had only completed nine years as external auditor. Recognising process, the quality of the work and communication by the that two of the members of the Audit Committee were previously external auditor and the level of audit fees. The Audit Partner is employed by EY and the existing relationship which the Company Daniel Trotman and he has been the Audit Partner for two years. has with EY, the Audit Committee designed the tender exercise to be robust, objective and transparent. Thus, the process consisted of the following steps: March 2016 The Chairman of the Audit Committee wrote to leading institutional shareholders inviting their input into the tender process. May 2016 Introductory meetings with all four tenderers in London to explain process and provide information about the Company and the audit. June 2016 Data Room was opened and requests for information processed. August 2016 Meetings with each of the tenderers: (i) In London with the Audit Committee Chairman and Company Secretary to explain the Audit Committee process and governance framework. (ii) In Mexico City with (a) the Audit Committee members; (b) the Internal Audit and Risk Management team; (c) the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, the Head of IT and the Assistant VP, Planning and Executive Information and (d) the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Head of Exploration. September 2016 • Receipt of written proposals. • Short-list of tenderers agreed for oral presentations. • Oral presentations given in Mexico City. October 2016 Formal decision made by Audit Committee, taking account of input from members of the Executive Committee, internal audit and the finance team, and its recommendation made to the Fresnillo plc Board. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 133 Four firms, Deloitte, KPMG, PwC and the incumbent auditor, EY, to the Board and accepted in October 2016. The appointment will FRESNILLO TODAY were invited to submit tenders. In order to ensure that the process be presented to shareholders for confirmation at the 2017 AGM. was as objective as possible, the Audit Committee involved a number of key stakeholders who work with the external auditor. In making its recommendation to the Board to re-appoint EY for These included the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the 2017 year end audit, the Audit Committee and management the Group Financial Controller, the Head of IT, Assistant Vice particularly noted that EY have a strong understanding of the President, Planning and Executive Information, the Head of Risk, mining sector and its various audit-related issues and challenges. the Head of Internal Audit and Internal Audit Manager. All of the They also took into account the strength and experience of stakeholders involved in the process were invited to rank/score the EY team both in London and in Mexico. In addition, EY had each of the tenderers against each of the following criteria. These identified ways in which the audit process could continue to marks were taken into account as part of the evaluation process. evolve and innovate as part of their proposal and have committed to implement those recommendations. • Experience in mining, with precious metals expertise preferred, in companies of a similar size and complexity. Quality and independence of the external auditor and non-audit STRATEGIC REPORT • London team experienced with FTSE 100 companies and services policy associated regulation and governance (preferably with some The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure who can speak Spanish) supported by local Mexican team. that the external auditor maintains its independence and • Quality of partners in UK and Mexico and quality of their teams, objectivity and is appropriately qualified with sufficient resources evidenced by firm and external evaluations. Issues from the and expertise to fulfil the role. During the external audit tender FRC’s Audit Quality Review (AQR) of the firm relevant to audit process all of these aspects were considered. More specifically of Fresnillo and details of internal processes used for quality in the context of the 2016 audit, the Audit Committee specifically assurance. Quality and experience of other technical resources reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of EY as that may be used on assignments. the external auditor based on disclosures provided by EY in • How the audit approach would be aligned to Fresnillo’s specific accordance with UK Ethical Standards for the audit profession. circumstances. • Communication skills. Following the implementation of the EU Audit Reform Directive, • Expected continuity of team. the Audit Committee reviewed its policy for the provision of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Proposed hours and fees in detail with methodology for non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor future years. (the ‘Revised Policy’, which was effective from 1 January 2017). • Independence of firm and details of internal practices to ensure This resulted in minor changes being agreed to the Policy to continuing compliance with independence requirements and ensure that it conforms to the new Ethical Standard published freedom from conflicts of interest. by the Financial Reporting Council. Under the Revised Policy • Plan for transition and experience of such transitions with the engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit similar companies. services, certain assurance, and due diligence services with fees • Experience of co-ordination with Parent Company of less than US$5,000 is pre-approved. Any engagement of the management and auditors and methodology for doing so. external auditor to provide permitted services above US$5,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Committee. Fresnillo external audit tender evaluation criteria Following the submission of the written proposals, the Audit In October 2016, the Audit Committee reviewed the non-audit Committee unanimously concluded that Deloitte and EY work undertaken by EY during the year. The Committee was FINANCIAL STATEMENTS demonstrated better the resources, expertise, quality control and satisfied that the level of work was appropriate and that the nature audit approach to deliver a high quality audit service to Fresnillo and of the work would not compromise EY’s objectivity in respect of were invited to give oral presentations, following which, a formal future audit work. Details of the fees paid to EY during the year recommendation to re-appoint EY as the external auditor was made as shown in note 28 to the financial statements.  Risk and Internal Control During the course of 2016, the Audit Committee undertook the following activities in relation to risk, internal control, going concern and viability: Governance Area Activities Risk • Quarterly reviews of the risk matrix and Key Risk Indicators (‘KRIs’) • Half-yearly reviews of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties. Internal control • Consideration of plan for the year-end review of the system of internal controls. • Quarterly review of internal control monitoring reports to the Board • Annual review of the system of internal controls. Financial • Annual treasury policy review. • Review of reserves and resources data and report from SRK. Non-financial • Quarterly review of Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme (ABAC). • Quarterly report on legal matters (land titles and litigation). • Regular reviews of IT Governance, IT Strategy, Cyber-security and Data Protection. • Annual review of compliance with mining licence conditions. Going concern • Half-yearly reviews of the Going Concern Statement and supporting papers. Viability • Review of the process for preparing the Viability Statement including scenario planning assumptions and supporting paper. • Review of the draft Viability Statement prior to submission to Board for approval. 134 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Audit Committee Report continued  Risk and Internal Control continued Risk Control exceptions identified in the current year include those Management will continue to build on the existing risk management relating to operational safety, compliance with regulations for framework, seeking to enhance risk governance and management handling hazardous materials and explosives, monitoring of across the business in line with the changes to the UK Corporate electrical installations, installation of auxiliary services within Governance Code. In order to support the Board in monitoring the the mine, monitoring and operation of tailings deposits and normal risk management activities, the Audit Committee reviewed the oversight over contractors. These issues are not pervasive management’s activities to: throughout the Group’s operations but each issue has occurred • develop an ongoing continuous monitoring process consisting at least at one of the Group’s operating areas and plans for of validating the effectiveness of current controls; remediation have been approved and these are being progressed. • continue promoting ownership of risk mitigation and associated controls among the process owners at the business unit level In the current year the Audit Committee has also received updates (being the first line of defence) through their periodic reporting on the Group’s IT strategy and related risks. This has included initial on the effectiveness of controls; and consideration of an external cyber-security assessment which • consider how our risk management environment is strengthened has highlighted a number of areas for future focus. Through an through working to ensure that the Group’s corporate values and ongoing dialogue with the Executive Committee and operational control culture are embedded throughout the organisation. management, these findings are being prioritised and remediation plans to address them, including control improvements, are being These efforts have resulted in a transparent analysis of the developed and implemented. operational, financial and executive management controls for each of the risks that have been identified by management in its risk universe. The Audit Committee receives regular reports on ongoing management actions and initiatives undertaken to respond to During 2016, the Audit Committee and Board formally reviewed control exceptions identified, recognising that, by their nature, these the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Group prior to the can take a period of time to take effect. The Committee reviews publication of both the interim and full-year reports. and closely monitors progress throughout the year. The Audit Committee is satisfied with the progress that it has seen in the year. Further details of the risk management system are set out on page 42. In the prior year, certain opportunities to improve monitoring activities were identified, which have progressed in the year. The Financial risk management Audit Committee and the Board will continue to closely monitor The Company’s objectives and policies on financial risk management the implementation and progress of these initiatives during 2017. including information on the Company’s exposures to market risk, On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board agreed such as foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation that the following statement to be made about the review of the rate and equity price risks; credit risk and liquidity risk can be system of internal control in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts. found in note 31 to the financial statements. Internal control The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the The Group has in place internal controls and risk management Audit Committee (at its February 2017 meeting), reviewed systems in relation to the Group’s financial reporting process and the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls. the Group’s process for preparing consolidated accounts. These As a result of this review, the Board considers that the systems include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate measures that have been or are planned to be implemented accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded complement Fresnillo’s risk management framework and accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances. statements in accordance with IFRS. The Board is committed to the continued development During 2016, the Audit Committee has overseen the implementation of its internal control regime with a view to achieving and of a new internal control monitoring document which is prepared maintaining best practice levels of risk management and and submitted to the Board on a quarterly basis. This document internal control for international mining companies listed specifically reports on internal controls and the key findings from on the London Stock Exchange. the quarterly internal audit reports. During the year, management embarked on a communication programme across the business to explain how the internal controls framework operates. This resulted in managers at each of the Business Units better understanding Going concern how the internal control programme operates. The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern for a minimum of 12 months from The process agreed by the Audit Committee to monitor the the approval of the financial statements. The Audit Committee Group’s system of internal controls focused on improving the supported the Board in this assessment by considering whether, understanding of how the various sources of assurance (such in adverse circumstances, the Company has adequate liquid as operational management, financial management, executive resources to meet its obligations as they fall due. In February 2017, management and internal audit) interact in the review and the Audit Committee reviewed the Group budget and cash flow execution of material controls and identify and address any forecasts for the period to December 2018, taking into account the gaps in the control framework. To this end, the Audit Committee, Company’s anticipated production profiles at each mine, budgeted with the assistance of the risk function and management, has capital and exploration expenditure and the sensitivity of the assessed its approach to monitoring the ongoing effectiveness cashflow forecasts to movements in metal prices. of the Group’s system of internal controls. That review was concluded by the Audit Committee in February 2017. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 135 The Audit Committee also considered EY’s report on this Longer-term viability FRESNILLO TODAY assessment and on the reasonableness of assumptions therein, Having adopted a robust process for the preparation of the including their consistency with assumptions and estimates Viability Statement (which was described in the 2015 Audit used elsewhere in the preparation of the financial statements. Committee Report), the Audit Committee considered with In particular, the Committee challenged management on the management how the disclosures could be enhanced and further feasibility of the mitigating actions and the potential speed validated. This discussion concluded that the approach adopted of their implementation. As a result of the procedures performed, in respect of the 2015 Annual Report should continue to be applied the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the going concern in 2016 but with further analysis around the actions that the Board basis of preparation is appropriate and the financial statements could take (for example, contingency planning) in mitigating the appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern. impact of the types of scenarios set out in the Viability Statement. The Board’s Going Concern Statement and longer-term Viability Statement are set out in the strategic report on pages 54 and 55. STRATEGIC REPORT Internal Audit The Audit Committee has continued its regular dialogue with internal audit during the year: Frequency Activity Annually • Review Internal Audit Plan and its resourcing for the following year. • Evaluation of internal audit. Twice a year • Meeting between the Audit Committee and internal audit without management present. Every meeting • Review of significant internal audit findings (including progress with red flags) based on the audits conducted during the most recent quarter. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Head of Internal Audit attends all meetings of the Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately with the Head of Internal Audit and Internal Audit Manager six times during 2016. The internal audit team seek to complete audits of all the operating In addition, the Audit Committee has also monitored the risks across all of the Fresnillo Group’s mining assets on a regular quality of the dialogue between internal audit and the Executive basis. During the year, the Audit Committee have worked with Committee in reviewing internal audit findings and agreeing action internal audit to focus on three particular areas: plans with appropriate levels of operational buy-in to deal with the points raised. The Audit Committee met with the Chief Executive 1. New mines: Following the emphasis on auditing the Company’s Officer and Chief Operating Officer during the year to review this new mines which was initiated in 2015, internal audit continued and is satisfied with the progress achieved through this dialogue. to examine that proper procedures are implemented from the beginning in those new operations. This review particularly The members of the Audit Committee evaluate the performance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS focused on the effectiveness of the processes adopted when of the Internal Audit team annually and in 2016 this process was building and commissioning the San Julián mine. facilitated by the Chairman of the Audit Committee who discussed 2. Red flags: At each meeting during the year, the Audit the findings of that review with the Head of Internal Audit and Committee has focussed on the progress made by Internal Audit Manager. When reviewing the Internal Audit Plan management in dealing with ‘red flag’ items raised during for the year, the Audit Committee also considered the personnel internal audit visits to ensure that the management responses available within the Internal Audit team, their expertise and to remediation are appropriate and timely. Significant progress experience. In 2016, the Audit Committee particularly considered has been made during the year to reduce the number of issues the specialisms within the internal audit team in key areas of risk requiring long-term remedial work that remained outstanding such as IT and safety. at the end of 2015. 3. IT issues (including Cyber Security and Data Protection): During 2016, the Audit Committee has received presentations from the Head of IT setting out the Group IT Strategy for the year and demonstrating how this supports the overall Group Strategy. Within these presentations, the Audit Committee has considered the steps being taken by management to: (i) deal with cyber security threats, and (ii) ensure appropriate levels of procedural compliance with the requirements of Mexican data protection legislation. The Audit Committee understands the steps being taken by management to deal with these matters and is satisfied with the progress being made. 136 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Audit Committee Report continued Whistleblowing A summary of all whistleblowing hotline cases and Honour President of Exploration and the Legal Manager. These Commission responses is presented at each Audit Committee arrangements have been established for some time and the meeting. Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate investigation of all whistleblowing incidents is undertaken The ‘Fresnillo Plays Fair’ whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders in a timely manner. to anonymously report (via an independent third party) violations of the Group’s Code of Conduct. The results are assessed by an During 2016, the Audit Committee was satisfied that all matters independent third party and processed for review by the Honour had been properly investigated with appropriate action taken. Commission, which is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, The Audit Committee considers that current level of issues raised the Chief Operating Officer, the Compliance Officer (currently is good evidence that the current programme is being taken the Chief Financial Officer), the Director of Internal Audit, the Vice seriously across the Group and is operating satisfactorily. Related Parties First half, 2016 activity Second half, 2016 activity • Review of related parties list and payments to key • Review of insurance programme (including the role of related external advisors. parties in the insurance programme). • Review of the related parties list. • Review of Met-Mex treatment charge and refining charge rates for 2016. Peñoles owns just under 75% of the issued share capital of the Being part of the same Group also provides an opportunity Company (see page 125) and therefore has and will continue to for synergistic benefits to be achieved operationally and have a significant level of influence over the affairs and operations administratively. The principal arrangements between the of Fresnillo. Company and related parties are: The Shared Services The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the Company and Peñoles under which 23 Agreement categories of services are provided to the Company by Peñoles. The Shared Services Agreement was renewed for five years with effect from 31 December 2012. In order to ensure that Fresnillo is charged appropriately for services rendered by Peñoles under the Shared Services Agreement, management have regular meetings with Peñoles to discuss its performance against the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for each of the different categories of service where issues of non-compliance are addressed and remediation agreed. In addition, internal audit conduct reviews of approximately one third of the services provided each year to ensure that these services are provided in accordance with the agreed KPI’s. As a result, all services are reviewed by internal audit over a three-year cycle. During 2017, the Audit Committee will begin the process for renewing the Shared Service Agreement. This is expected to follow a similar process to the one used in 2012 and include benchmarking exercises across all of the service categories to ensure that the scope and pricing for each service is appropriate. The Met-Mex Agreement During the year, the Audit Committee considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex arrangements for 2016 comparing proposed prices to comparable prices charged by Met-Mex to independent customers and to those of other refineries taking account of ore composition and transport costs to ensure that they are reasonable. Based on the satisfactory outcome of that review, the Chairman of the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the independent Directors approve the proposed charges for 2016 under the Met-Mex arrangements, which they did in October 2016. Other agreements There are other dealings with related parties in the ordinary course of business (e.g. insurance brokerage) which, although not requiring approval by independent Directors, will from time-to-time be reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the arrangements are on a reasonable arm’s-length basis. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 137 The Effectiveness of the Audit Committee FRESNILLO TODAY In addition to the activities set out above, the Audit Committee takes various steps each year to ensure that the Committee itself and the key functions supporting its role, primarily the external auditor and internal audit continue to be effective. The key steps are: Activity Outcome in 2016 • Review of the training and development requirements for Audit • Committee members attended external briefings and seminars Committee members. to keep their knowledge up-to-date in addition to briefings from the external auditors relating to changes in financial regulation. • Annual Review of the Terms of Reference of the Audit • The Company Secretary facilitated a review of the terms of Committee in order to ensure that they remain up-to-date. reference of the Audit Committee and changes were agreed which aligned the terms of reference with new requirements STRATEGIC REPORT on non-audit services. The outcomes of the Audit Committee evaluation in 2016 is discussed below. Prior to the planned external evaluation in 2017, the Audit Committee conducted an internal evaluation in 2016. This was facilitated by the Company Secretary, using a questionnaire-based approach. This was the final step in a three-year process which commenced in 2014 when Independent Audit Limited undertook an externally-led evaluation of the Audit Committee. The broader context for the 2016 exercise, therefore, was: Year Approach Outcome 2014 • Externally-facilitated evaluation. • The Audit Committee established five key workstreams in response to the 50 recommendations of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the evaluation. 2015 • Internal Review of the Key Workstreams arising from • Progress on the workstreams was monitored and the 2014 evaluation. reported on in the 2015 Audit Committee Report. 2016 • Internal questionnaire to key Audit Committee • The key conclusions of this exercise are stakeholders evaluating progress on all of the original summarised below. recommendations made by Independent Audit Limited. The conclusions of the 2016 evaluation were that the Audit • Oversight of the IT Governance Committee in relation to Committee is satisfied that its core duties in relation to financial the management of the IT strategy and IT-related internal reporting, external audit, risk and internal control, internal audit, controls and the liaison with internal audit. whistleblowing and related parties are being performed well, • The interface between the Audit Committee, internal audit albeit that it recognises the necessity of continuous improvement. and the HSECR Committee in relation to internal audit findings FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Audit Committee intends, however, to consider the following relating to health, safety and environmental matters. aspects of its activities following its own evaluation exercise and • The relationship between the Audit Committee’s oversight the Board evaluation review: of the Honour Commission and the wider governance of • Review of the Board’s post-investment review procedures. culture by the Board and the HSECR Committee. • Oversight of management’s evaluation of the Shared Services Agreement as it approaches its renewal date. The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc. Signed on behalf of the Board. Charles Jacobs Senior Independent Director 27 February 2017 138 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report Chairman’s Annual Statement Dear Shareholder, As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 and, within this introduction, set the context for the activities and decisions of the Remuneration Committee during the year. Whilst much of the activity of the Remuneration Committee during 2016 may be regarded as ‘business as usual’, the expiry of our current Directors’ remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM has presented a timely opportunity for us to reflect on our overall approach to remuneration. The firm conclusion from that review is that the fundamentals of our remuneration policy remain sound and appropriate for Fresnillo and are supported by our shareholders. Therefore, whilst we are proposing some changes (as outlined on page 140) the essential structure of the policy will remain unchanged and therefore the key features of the The fundamentals of our policy remain as follows: remuneration policy remain Component of remuneration Key features and rationale Base salary These are core elements of remuneration sound and appropriate for and benefits designed to recruit and retain Directors. Ordinarily, the same basis for change Fresnillo and are supported (e.g. salary increases) will be applied across the Company to senior by our shareholders. management and employees alike. Annual bonus Annual bonus is capped at six months’ salary and is paid on the basis of metrics Charles Jacobs set out in the remuneration policy. Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Long-term There are no long-term incentive incentive schemes schemes. The annual bonus scheme sets targets which are aligned to the long-term strategic objectives so that these priorities are embedded within the day-to-day activities of our business rather than being seen as something extra. Shareholding In the absence of share-based incentive guidelines schemes, there is no need to adopt shareholding guidelines for executives. Claw-back The absence of long-term incentives and malus makes it difficult to adopt claw-back and malus arrangements. There is scope within the bonus scheme for bonus awards to be adjusted downward at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. As in previous years, we have published remuneration information in respect of our Chief Executive Officer as if he were a member of the Board, even though that is not currently the case. We believe this is within the spirit of our reporting obligations, even if it is not strictly required, as it adds to the transparency of our reporting. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 139 Remuneration Committee membership Remuneration Committee activity FRESNILLO TODAY Although the UK Corporate Governance Code emphasises During the year, the Committee met four times. Its key activities the need for the Remuneration Committee to be made up during the year were: of independent Non-executive Directors, we believe that it • Monitoring of UK regulatory requirements and changing is vital that the membership of the Committee is made up of shareholder expectations and a review of potential changes Non-executive Directors who are able to bring the following to the remuneration policy. perspectives to the working of the Remuneration Committee: • Receipt of reports from Willis Towers Watson concerning the • An understanding of shareholder expectations. benchmarking of remuneration for members of the Executive • An understanding of the evolving remuneration expectations Committee and Executive Directors, by reference to the of investors on the London Stock Exchange. peer group. • An understanding of the general approaches to remuneration • Consideration of information about Mexican inflation trends within the Mexican market. and internal employee salary reviews prior to setting the annual salary increases for the Chief Executive Officer and members When viewed against these three criteria, the current composition of the Executive Committee. STRATEGIC REPORT of the Remuneration Committee, being myself, Mr Baillères, the • Review of the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Mr Fernando Ruiz, appears to be very members of the Executive Committee compared to the KPIs appropriate. Thus, although Mr Baillères was non-independent set for 2015 and approval of annual bonus awards for 2015 at the time of his appointment to the Board (and therefore his based on achievement of KPI targets. membership of the Remuneration Committee does not comply • Review of KPI targets for the Chief Executive Officer and with Code Provision D.2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance members of the Executive Committee for 2016, including Code), the Board continues to uphold the view that Mr Baillères’ consideration of the effectiveness of changes to the targets experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican to reward better performance in safety improvement and market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration exploration efforts set the previous year. Committee’s deliberations justifies his membership of the • Other activities, e.g. Committee evaluation, as required Remuneration Committee. I am based in London and aware of the by the Committee’s terms of reference. UK requirements whilst Mr Ruiz is based in Mexico and, along with the Chairman, is aware of the Mexican approach to remuneration. I am always happy to talk to our shareholders about our approach CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to remuneration particularly as we approach the renewal of our policy at our 2017 Annual General Meeting. Yours faithfully Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Performance highlights and remuneration outcomes in 2016 Company performance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Silver production (moz) Gold production (koz) Total silver reserves (moz) 50.3m 935.5m 530.3m (2015: 47.0m)+7.1% (2015: 761.7m)+22.8% (2015: 547.6m)-3.2% Total gold reserves (moz) Profit for the year (US$ millions) Fatalities 9.5m 425.0m 3 (2015: 9.5m)0.0% (2015: 69.4m)+512% (2015: 1)+300% Components of CEO’s remuneration Total salary (MX$ millions) Bonus (MX$ millions) 14.8m 3.6m (2015: 14.1m)+5.0% (2015: 1.7m)+111.8% 140 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy A new Directors’ remuneration policy will be proposed to shareholders for approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2017. The full policy is set out on pages 142 to 146. For ease of reference, the significant changes being proposed are summarised as follows: Proposed change Rationale The addition of limited discretion in the Bonus section of This provides the Remuneration Committee with limited flexibility Remuneration Policy table to enable the Committee to to adjust the weighting of different elements of the bonus KPIs to adjust individual KPI weightings from year-to-year. ensure that the bonus remains aligned to the strategic objectives as they evolve. Change to triennial benchmarking (rather than biennial), to be Institutional shareholders have stated that they prefer three-yearly reviewed in the year prior to the renewal of the remuneration cycles for benchmarking (which are administratively easier policy. to manage). Addition of a cap on the maximum level of salary increase for the To ensure that there is absolute clarity about the maximum level Chief Executive Officer in any year to ensure that it is not more of pay increase for the Chief Executive Officer by reference to the than 10% higher than the average percentage pay increase for workforce whilst allowing some scope for justifiable above-inflation the workforce as a whole, except in exceptional circumstances increase e.g. where the Chief Executive Officer has been initially which would be fully explained in the following Annual Report appointed at a below median pay level to allow scope to grow on Remuneration. into the role. More explicit disclosure about the peer group used to benchmark To provide clarity about the most appropriate group of companies the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration to ensure that it remains to use for benchmarking purposes in response to comparator within the parameters set out in the remuneration policy. groups selected by third parties. Addition of a provision to allow the Remuneration Committee to This specific discretion to reduce bonus payments where adjust a bonus outcome downward if the financial or operational circumstances justify it is effectively a ‘malus’ provision. performance of the Company or individual does not justify the bonus level that would otherwise have been achieved on an ordinary interpretation of the targets and metrics. The Remuneration Committee has previously agreed a change To bring the banding structure for the Chief Executive Officer’s to the payment bandings by adding a three-month bonus bonus arrangements into line with the changes previously agreed payment band. for the other Executive Committee members and provide more flexibility in bonus payments. Addition of a new section describing how shareholder views As required by the Regulations. on remuneration are taken into account. A statement concerning the use of Shareholding Guidelines This had previously been included in the Annual Report on is introduced. Remuneration and is now part of the remuneration policy. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 141 Directors Remuneration Policy in summary FRESNILLO TODAY The retention of key senior executives and the alignment of management incentives with the creation of shareholder value are key objectives of the Group’s current remuneration policy. Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors or key management at an appropriate level is key to managerial retention in Mexico. Salaries are therefore market competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally for comparable companies. Total remuneration is benchmarked triennially against the Company’s peer group within Mexico and internationally to ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long-term. Salaries are positioned within the range according to experience and length of service. The annual bonus rewards the achievement of financial and strategic business targets and the delivery of personal objectives. Although the annual bonus is set for and based on performance over a single-year period, the KPI’s and targets are also designed to ensure that both short-term objectives and the long-term development of the Fresnillo Group are given broadly equal priority within variable remuneration. As a consequence, the Company does not use share-based forms of remuneration to incentivise long-term performance. STRATEGIC REPORT The Annual Bonus Plan aligns incentives to the short-term (one year) and long-term (multiple year) objectives in the following manner. Time horizon for objectives Key performance indicator Strategic objective for the bonus scheme Short-term Long-term Measure Weighting 1 Maximise the potential Increase production X X Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 of existing operations Safety X Fatalities 5 Deliver growth through Resources X Increase in total resources 10 development projects Extend the growth pipeline X Increase in resources upgraded from inferred 20 to indicated CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Advance sustainable Stakeholder X Various (focused on community, employee 11 development and contractor relationships) Financial X Net adjusted profit 2 17 All objectives Teamwork X X Various e.g. succession planning 11 Notes: 1. The Remuneration Committee may approve changes to the weightings in order to ensure that the bonus remains aligned to the strategic objectives as they evolve. 2. The 2016 net profit amount for the purposes of the 2016 annual bonus was re-based to take account of the year-on-year changes in currency, metals prices, the revaluation of the Silverstream contract. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 142 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Directors’ Remuneration Policy Introduction This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy of the Company and has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (‘the Regulations’). The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and the views of our major shareholders. It describes the policy to be applied for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and beyond. The remuneration policy will be put to a binding vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, and, subject to it receiving majority shareholder support, the Effective Date of the policy will be the date of the 2017 Annual General Meeting of the Company, 23 May 2017. This policy replaces in its entirety the remuneration policy approved by the Company’s shareholders on 16 May 2014 but the Company may honour any commitment to pay an amount which was made before this policy came into effect or before the Director became a Director. As required by UK law, the remuneration policy is binding in relation to Directors. The Company currently has no Executive Directors who would be bound by the remuneration policy. However, the Company will (as it has previously done) treat the Chief Executive Officer as if he were an Executive Director for the purposes of the remuneration policy and for reporting on his remuneration. Remuneration policy The Group’s remuneration policy seeks to ensure that the Company is able to attract, retain and motivate its Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee. The retention of key management and the alignment of management incentives and the creation of shareholder value being key objectives of this policy. Setting base salaries for Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee at an appropriate level is a key to managerial retention in Mexico. Therefore, the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally for comparable companies. Total compensation is set within a range around the median level for the Company’s peer group within Mexico and internationally, total remuneration is benchmarked triennially to ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long-term. Salaries are positioned within the range according to experience and service. The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Directors’ pay set out in the remuneration policy (the ‘Policy Table’): Base salary Provides the core reward for the role Operation Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months starting on 1 April each year and the review is influenced by: • Role, experience and performance. • Average workforce salary adjustments. • Mexican economic factors. • Comparison with the Company’s peer group in Mexico and internationally. Salaries are benchmarked triennially by reference to companies of similar size and complexity and will be positioned within a mid-range of the Company’s comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally. The next review will take place in April 2017 (under the old policy) and April 2019 (under the new policy). Maximum value The Executive Director’s salary will be reviewed taking account of the benchmarking information received by the Remuneration Committee and the maximum value of the Executive Director’s base salary will be positioned within the mid-range for companies in the peer group of Mexican and international resources companies. An Executive Director’s salary will be increased in line with increases applied across the whole workforce. In exceptional circumstances, the Executive Director’s salary may be increased by up to but never more than 10% above the average pay increase for the whole workforce of the Company in any year. The rationale for such increases will be fully explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Performance metric The Remuneration Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate meeting each year by reference to the factors noted under the ‘Operation’ heading in this table. Details of the current remuneration of the Executive Director are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Discretion The Remuneration Committee will establish the Company’s comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally as part of the triennial review which it will consider in April 2019. The peer group will be reviewed again in April 2019. The Committee will report on the outcome of these reviews within the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. Benefits Help recruit and retain employees Operation An Executive Director would be entitled to life insurance, the use of a company car, the payment of premiums for medical insurance covering limited expenses and check-ups. Benefits may be changed if Company policy on benefits changes. Maximum value The current benefits are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report. The maximum value of benefits will be determined by Company policy that is applicable to all employees. Performance metric None. Discretion The Remuneration Committee may consider changes to the benefits made available to Executive Directors in line with any changes in the policy for benefits provided to all employees. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 143 Pension FRESNILLO TODAY Rewards continued employment and sustained contribution Operation The Group operates a defined contribution scheme. Executive Directors are entitled to membership of the defined contribution scheme. Maximum value The maximum company contribution for any employee may not exceed 13% of salary. Performance metric None. Discretion Not applicable. Annual bonus Rewards the achievement of both shortand long-term financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives STRATEGIC REPORT Operation Targets are renewed annually and relate to the strategic aims of the business as a whole. A scoring system is used for the plan. Each objective set for the executive at the beginning of the year is allocated a points-rating which represents a median performance target for that objective. Upper and lower point thresholds are set to allow for outstanding performance and to ensure that underperformance is not rewarded. For each member of the Executive Committee (including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President of Exploration and the Chief Operating Officer), a bonus is only payable if the aggregate performance equals or exceeds 100 points. Bonus payments are paid for aggregate performance against target at or above 100 points as follows: Points Variable pay (month’s salary) Variable pay (% of salary) Less than 100 Zero Zero 100.00–103.75 Two 16.67 103.76-107.50 Three 25.00 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 107.51–111.00 Four 33.33 111.01–115.00 Five 41.67 115.01+ Six 50.00 Maximum value The maximum percentage of salary is 50% (six months’ salary) and is paid where Executive Directors achieve 115.01 points or more under the Annual Bonus Plan (target is 100 points). Performance metric The KPI targets focus set out in the previous table will apply and are intended to focus on risks that are within the control and influence of management. Thus, the management of safety, security, project, human resource, exploration and environmental risks are all currently implicitly covered within the KPIs. The KPIs and targets, which are set by reference to the reserved and resources and financial metrics at the previous year end and/or set in the budget for the forthcoming financial year are also designed to ensure that both short-term objectives and the long-term development of the Fresnillo Group are given equal priority. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Details of the measures, targets and performance which is tested on an annual basis will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Discretion The Remuneration Committee considers that the KPIs, upon which bonuses are based, may need to evolve from year-to-year in line with the strategy and therefore it retains the discretion to make modest adjustments to the KPIs themselves, the bonus bands within the overall maximum and the individual KPI weightings from year-to-year. The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust bonus payments in the following circumstances: (i) A downward adjustment where the KPI outcomes would result, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, in a bonus payment which cannot be justified by the Company’s financial or operational performance during the year (or subsequently in respect of previous years). In this case a downward adjustment would be applied. (ii) Where factors outside the control of Executive Directors e.g. force majeure circumstances have significantly depressed the level of points awarded. In deciding whether adjustment is merited, the Remuneration Committee will consider the appropriateness of the Executive Director’s response to those circumstances; in this situation a modest upward adjustment may be considered. (iii) Poor executive response to adverse health, safety or environmental performance during the year, in which case a downward adjustment would be considered. The use of any such discretions will be fully explained in future Directors’ Remuneration Reports. Note: Any adjustment in individual KPI weightings will not result in their achievement being any less difficult to satisfy. 144 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Alignment of executive remuneration and the market On behalf of members earning a salary of no more than 25 In setting the fixed remuneration of Executive Directors and the times the minimum wage in force from time to time the employing members of the Executive Committee, information relating to the company may make contributions of 5% to the scheme. The mining company comparators is provided by various consultants. employing company may also make additional contributions Information relating to the Mexican economic metrics and internal between 5% and 8% of salary to this plan. Members may elect benchmarking is collated by management for the Remuneration to match percentages between 5% to 8% of salary. Committee to consider. Executive Directors may participate the Group’s pension schemes Reviews are conducted by Willis Towers Watson triennially. on the same basis as any other employee. These enable the Remuneration Committee to validate the Company’s policy towards remuneration and ensure that it was Engagement with shareholders on remuneration globally as well as locally competitive. The analysis evaluates the The composition of the Remuneration Committee has been elements of base salary, short-term compensation (guaranteed designed to ensure that the views of the controlling shareholder payments and short-term bonus) and long-term compensation (through the membership of the Chairman of the Board on the (primarily stock programmes) separately. With assistance Committee) and the independent shareholders (through the from Willis Towers Watson, the Remuneration Committee has membership of a UK-based Director on the Committee) can established a peer group consisting of the following companies be represented. The Remuneration Committee has considered which will be used to benchmark any Executive Director’s and the views of organisations such as Institutional Shareholder any Executive Committee member’s remuneration to ensure Services (‘ISS’) and the Investment Association both generally that it remains within the parameters set out in this policy. and as reported to the Company in relation to its own executive remuneration practices prior to each Annual General Meeting, Europe Randgold Resources when considering the Remuneration Policy and its application. Acacia Mining The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also discussed Hochschild Mining aspects of the Remuneration Policy in person with ISS, and there were no major concerns raised. USA/Canada Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd Goldcorp Inc. The Remuneration Committee does not consult with employees Hecla Mining Co. in setting Directors’ remuneration. Newmont Mining Corporation Panamerican Silver Corp. Policy on recruitment Yamana Gold Inc. The Remuneration Committee will consider the remuneration Mexico Goldcorp of new Executive Directors by reference to the remuneration policy Grupo Mexico set out above. The Remuneration Committee does not as a default position pay sign-on payments or compensate new Directors for Comparison of executive and wider Company remuneration any variable remuneration forfeited from any employment prior to When setting pay and benefits for Executive Directors and joining the Board. If it did, such payments would be fully explained members of the Executive Committee, the Remuneration in the next Annual Report on Remuneration both as to the reason Committee takes account of pay and conditions across the Group. for payment and the rationale for the quantum. Salary will be set It will consider the overall pay increase percentage negotiated so as to be market competitive both within the Mexican context with employee representatives as its starting point. Subject to the and internationally for comparable companies and taking account 10% limit in the Policy Table, the Remuneration Committee may of the experience and seniority of the appointee coming into the agree pay increases above or below the agreed percentage in new role. The Remuneration Committee is likely to set base salaries exceptional circumstances, where in its discretion it considers below median on appointment whilst retaining discretion to such variance to the norm to be justified. Other than the award increases during the first and, possibly, subsequent years Willis Towers Watson report specifically commissioned by the to bring salaries into the normal range expected for Executive Remuneration Committee, the same benchmark reports are Directors, in line with the Company’s stated policy. Such increases used in the evaluation of executive and employee remuneration, will not exceed the maximum level set out in the Policy Table. New thus providing a common approach to both. Executive Directors will receive benefits and pensions in line with Company’s existing policy and will be able to participate in the Below Board level, a statutory profit-sharing arrangement (‘PTU’) Annual Bonus Plan on a pro-rated basis for the portion of the is operated which in some years has enabled employees to receive financial year for which they are in post. The maximum level of significant levels of bonus in line with the increased profitability variable pay for new recruits will be the same as that set out in of the relevant employing company. Neither the Chief Executive the Policy Table for existing employees (pro-rated as necessary). Officer nor any of the Non-executive Directors participate in a PTU scheme within the Fresnillo Group. The other members of senior Policy on loss of office management group below Board level are employed by Servicios Other than in circumstances of gross misconduct, Executive Administrativos Fresnillo SA de CV which pays annual PTU Directors and members of the Executive Committee, including payments. However such payments are modest. the Chief Executive Officer, leaving employment from the Group, will be entitled to receive salary and pro-rated annual bonus based The Group operates two pension schemes: (i) a defined benefit on performance to the date of leaving. Statutory entitlements scheme which was closed to new members on 1 July 2007 are payable according to Mexican labour law, based on length with benefits frozen at this date for existing members, subject of service. Mexican labour law does not make any provision for to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer employers and employees to give or receive notice of termination Price Index; and (ii) a defined contribution scheme (which was of employment. Therefore the Committee will not make payments introduced on 1 July 2007). Membership of the latter scheme is in lieu of notice to departing executives unless required to do so voluntary, members earning a salary of no more than 25 times the by law. No contractual commitments concerning loss of office minimum wage in force from time to time may make contributions were entered into with any Director prior to 27 June 2012. of 5% to the scheme. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 145 Annual bonus plan and policy on variable remuneration than one year, the Remuneration Committee does not consider FRESNILLO TODAY It is the Company’s policy not to use its equity to incentivise that there is much value in introducing claw-back provisions into long-term performance. The Company’s core strategy is one the contractual arrangements with the Chief Executive Officer of long-term sustainable growth. Sustainable growth in mining at this stage. Within this remuneration policy, the Remuneration requires the steady and safe expansion of the Group’s operations Committee reserves the right to make downward adjustment through the discovery of new resources and construction, to bonus payments where the KPI outcomes would result, in the maintenance and/or expansion of new mines. No distinction opinion of the Remuneration Committee, in a bonus payment is therefore made between shortand long-term incentives. which cannot be justified by the Company’s financial or personal performance during the year (or subsequently in respect of The Company operates a single cash-based incentive plan for previous years). In this case a downward adjustment would Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee, be applied. including the Chief Executive Officer. Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy Malus and claw-back for the Chief Executive Officer STRATEGIC REPORT The Remuneration Committee has considered whether malus and/ The following table sets out the fixed and variable remuneration or claw-back provisions should be incorporated into the service of the Chief Executive Officer in the different scenarios where agreement for the Chief Executive Officer. Given that the Company he receives, minimum, target and maximum variable pay (based does not operate any remuneration plans with a timeframe of more on 31 December 2016 remuneration). Max value Component US$k Minimum Target Maximum Share incentives 1 Annual bonus 277k Annual Variable Pay 2 US$1,195k US$1,010k US$918k 9.1% 23.2% Pension benefits 36k Fixed Pay 3 100% 90.9% 76.8% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Other benefits 90k Base salary 792k 1. Fresnillo plc does not operate any share option or share-based long-term incentive plans. 2. Variable pay consists only of remuneration where performance measures or targets relate only to one financial year. 3. Fixed pay includes salary, benefits and pension. External appointments The Chairman of the Company does not receive any fees for acting It is the Board’s policy to allow Executive Directors to accept as Chairman other than his fees as a Non-executive Director. directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies and retain any fees or other remuneration for doing so, provided that Each Non-executive Director is expected to commit a minimum they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the Company. of 14 days per year in fulfilling their duties as a Director of the Any such directorships must be formally notified to the Board. Company. Once this policy is approved a base fee of £35,000 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS per annum will be paid to each non-UK-based Non-executive Chairman and Non-executive Directors Director to reflect the time commitment and level of involvement The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the they are required to make in the activities of the Board as a whole. Non-executive Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly There are no set fees for membership of any Board committees in arrears. The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not or for the chairmanship of the Board. The UK-based Non-executive participate in any long-term incentive or annual bonus schemes, Directors receive a higher fee to reflect the additional time nor do they accrue any pension entitlement. Neither the Chairman commitment that they make in order to travel to Board meetings nor any of the Non-executive Directors has a service contract in Mexico and to their responsibilities as appropriate as Senior with the Company; however each has entered into a letter Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of appointment with the Company. and Chairman of the Audit Committee. Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment Unless otherwise determined, the Director concerned may On their initial appointment, each of the Non-executive Directors give not less than three months’ notice of termination of the signed a letter of appointment with the Company, for an initial appointment. Copies of the Directors’ letters of appointment period of three years. Since April 2011, the letters of appointment of and service agreements are available for inspection at the serving Non-executive Directors have been drafted in accordance Company’s registered office. with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, thus obliging them to retire at each Annual General Meeting and be subject to annual re-election by shareholders to serve for a further term of one year. The amendments have been drafted such that renewed appointment will not necessitate a new letter of appointment. 146 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued The key terms of the Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment for the Directors serving during the year are as follows: Date of original letter of Notice period from Director to Director appointment the Company Duration of term 1 Fees p.a. Alberto Baillères 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Arturo Fernández 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 1 year £90,000 Alejandro Baillères 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year £30,000 Jaime Lomelín 15 August 2012 3 months 1 year £30,000 Bárbara Garza Lagüera 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year £30,000 Charles Jacobs 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year £90,000 Jaime Serra Puche 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year £30,000 Alberto Tiburcio 4 May 2016 3 months 1 year £30,000 1. Unexpired term: the Non-executive Directors all have rolling contracts which are subject to the annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The current term expires on 23 May 2016, being the date of the next Annual General Meeting but the appointment will continue after that date provided that each Director is re-elected at the AGM. 2. The fees payable to the Non-UK Non-executive Directors will, subject to this policy being approved, be increased to £35,000 with effect from the 23 May 2017. The Board have agreed that the aggregate fees of the Non-executive Directors (excluding the reimbursement of expenses) will be £530,000 per annum. The Articles of Association of the Company require that the aggregate remuneration of Directors may not exceed £3,000,000 unless approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders of the Company. This is the maximum figure for the purposes of this policy. Shareholding guidelines Fresnillo has not introduced share ownership guidelines The Company does not operate a share-based incentive scheme given that the culture for incentives in the Mexican market does not favour share-based incentives. Consequently, there would be neither opportunity nor appetite for executives to build a shareholding in the Company and therefore the Remuneration Committee has not adopted any shareholding guidelines. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 147 Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 Introduction FRESNILLO TODAY This report sets out information about the remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016. In accordance with the Regulations, the information provided in the section entitled ‘Directors’ Remuneration – 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 and accompanying notes has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP. Although the Chief Executive Officer is not currently a member of the Board, the Remuneration Committee has elected to report on his remuneration in this Report as if he were a Director, in keeping with the spirit of the Regulations. Audited information – Directors’ Remuneration – 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 Single total figure of remuneration The detailed emoluments received by the Executive and Non-executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2016 are detailed below: Annual Annual STRATEGIC REPORT Salary/Fees Benefits bonus Pension Total Salary/Fees Benefits bonus Pension Total US$000 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 Chairman Alberto Baillères 39 0 0 0 39 46 0 0 0 46 Non-executive Directors Juan Bordes 39 0 0 0 39 46 0 0 0 46 Rafael MacGregor 0 0 0 0 0 46 0 0 0 46 Arturo Fernández 39 0 0 0 39 46 0 0 0 46 Jaime Lomelín 1 39 0 0 0 39 46 0 0 0 46 Fernando Ruiz 39 0 0 0 39 46 0 0 0 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Guy Wilson 118 0 0 0 118 137 0 0 0 137 Alejandro Baillères 39 0 0 0 39 46 0 0 0 46 Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 0 0 0 0 0 46 0 0 0 46 Bárbara Garza Lagüera 39 0 0 0 39 46 0 0 0 46 Charles Jacobs 118 0 0 0 118 137 0 0 0 137 Jaime Serra 39 0 0 0 39 46 0 0 0 46 Alberto Tiburcio 26 0 0 0 26 0 0 0 0 0 Total 574 0 0 0 574 734 0 0 0 734 Chief Executive Officer (not on Board during the year) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Octavio Alvídrez 1 792 90 193 36 1,111 888 80 108 90 1,166 Grand total 1,366 90 193 36 1,685 1,622 80 108 90 1,900 1. Benefits provided to Mr Alvídrez include the cost of life insurance premiums 2016: US$24,779 (2015: US$26,465), club memberships 2016: US$1,544 (2015: US$1,679), subsistence and other meal benefits 2016: US$9,508 (2015: US$10,517), premiums for medical insurance covering limited expenses and check-ups 2016: US$4,210 (2015: US$3,639), chauffeur 2016: US$29,507 (2015: US$25,351), car 2016: US$19,308 (2015, US$11,216) and social security costs 2016: US$977 (2015: US$1,100). 2. The basis of calculation for Mr Alvídrez’ annual bonus for 2016 is set out in the table below. 3. The Company does not operate a long-term incentive plan or any share-based incentives. 148 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 continued The objectives, as applied to Mr Alvídrez’ incentive payment, the measures associated with each objective, and the relative weighting between objectives, are detailed below: 2016 2015 Weighting 2016 2016 points 2015 points Objective Measure points 1 target result award result award Production Increase in equivalent 26 104.4 million equivalent 111.2 27.7 92.5 26.80 ounces produced 3 ounces of silver This information is shown (2015: 89.8 million equivalent on page 58 ounces of silver) Exploration/ Increase in total resources 2 10 Maintain prior year 109% 10.9 102% 10.20 growth This information is shown total resources on page 71 Increase in resources 20 Maintain prior year 113% 22.6 103% 20.60 upgraded from inferred to total indicated indicated 3 This information is shown on page 71 Financial Net profit adjusted 3 17 US$111 million 4 US$337 51.7 US$236 28.50 (2015: US$141 million) million million Stakeholder Relationship with key 5 Unmeasured 2.00 2.00 3.00 3.00 stakeholders e.g. communities and unions 4 Management of land rights 4 3 3.00 3.00 4.25 4.25 Controls over contractors 4 3 0 0 3.75 3.75 Teamwork Collective teamwork across 5 Unmeasured 2.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 the Group 4 Progressing the Succession 6 0 0 2.00 2.00 Plan for Executive Committee positions 4 Safety Fatal accidents 5, 6 5 Zero 3 0 1 0 Sub-total 100 119.9 104.10 Adjustments – (2.4) 0 Sub-total 100 117.5 104.10 Discretion – (8.0) – Total 100 109.5 104.10 1. The Points Weighting is considered by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that it reflects an appropriate balance of priorities for management. Where a change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the Weighting will be amended in future years. 2. Any decrease in equivalent ounces produced and/or in reserves and resources will result in points being deducted from the total points scored. 3. Net profit is adjusted to exclude currency fluctuation, the effect of year-on-year changes in metals prices and any revaluation of the Silverstream contract. The 2016 net profit amount for the purposes of the 2016 annual bonus was in line with this approach. A table setting out the reconciliation of Net Profit to the numbers reporting in the financial statements is set out below. 4. The points awarded for the Stakeholder and Teamwork objectives are subject to some discretion. The following points are awarded depending on the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of the stakeholder and teamwork effort: Satisfactory performance = 100% of weighting points; outstanding performance = 140% of weighting points; and underperformance = 0 points. 5. In the event of a single fatality, zero points will be awarded for safety. For the purposes of calculating fatalities; all fatalities are included, irrespective of whether they are employees or contractors. Conversely, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, the number of points awarded would be increased to ten points. 6. In addition, to the penalty for a single fatality (see note 5), the number of points awarded will be further reduced by 1% if there are two fatalities, or by 2% if there are three fatalities, or by 3% if there are four fatalities etc. Reconciliation of net profit targets and outcomes to the financial statements 2016 2015 US$ millions Result Result Profit for year as shown in financial statements 425.0 69.4 Adjustments: Changes due to currency fluctuations 115.5 17.6 Changes due to year-on-year movements in metal prices (including the effects of metal hedging) (109.5) 168.6 Changes due to the movement in the valuation of the Silverstream contract (93.5) (19.4) Net profit adjusted total for bonus purposes 337.5 236.2 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 149 Explanation of non-financial targets and committee decision on points awarded FRESNILLO TODAY Relationship with stakeholders The Remuneration Committee consider that some improvement is needed in certain aspects. Surface tenure Performance was in line with expectations. Controls over contractors Fatalities among contractor staff during the year so further work is needed. Collective teamwork The Remuneration Committee consider that some improvement is required in this area. Succession plan for Exco positions No progress was made during the year to the disappointment of the Remuneration Committee. Committee discretion The Committee continued to be concerned at safety performance and the areas set out above and used its discretion to deduct points so as to reduce the bonus paid to the CEO compared to what he would have received otherwise. STRATEGIC REPORT Pension entitlement The pension entitlement of the Chief Executive Officer is as follows: US$‘000 Defined Contribution Scheme (DCS) Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS) Rights as at 31 December 2016 1 US$396 US$898 Additional benefit in the event that the In the event of early retirement, Mr Alvídrez Mr Alvídrez is not currently entitled to Chief Executive Officer retires early is entitled to receive his accumulated any additional benefit on early retirement contributions (both member and Company) in the DBS. to the DCS. Increase, before inflation and the effect Increase in accrued benefits of foreign exchange, in accrued benefits Accumulated accrued benefits during the year (note 1) during the year US$‘000 At 31 Dec 2016 At 31 Dec 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Octavio Alvídrez 1,297 1,435 (139) (134) 36 90 Notes: 1. The decrease in accrued benefits during the year includes a revaluation effect of US$(215k) (2015: US$253k). Mr Alvídrez is expected to retire at his normal retirement age of 60 years old. Shares held by Directors The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested at 1 January 2016 and at 31 December 2016 was: 1 January 31 December 2016 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Alberto Baillères 1 552,595,191 552,595,191 Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 Rafael MacGregor – N/A Arturo Fernández – – Jaime Lomelín – – Fernando Ruiz 30,000 30,000 Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 María Asunción Aramburuzabala – N/A Alejandro Baillères – – Bárbara Garza Lagüera – – Charles Jacobs – – Jaime Serra – – Alberto Tiburcio – – 1. Alberto Baillères holds an indirect interest in the Company. Mr Baillères and companies controlled by Mr Baillères hold, in aggregate 68.9% of the issued share capital (and voting rights) of Peñoles. Peñoles holds 552,595,191 Ordinary Shares (74.99%) of the issued share capital) in the Company. 150 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 continued Unaudited Information Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016 Chief Executive Officer salary and benefits The Total Remuneration paid to the Chief Executive Officer, Octavio Alvídrez, during the year was US$1,110,765. During the year, Mr Alvídrez served as Chief Executive Officer but was not a member of the Board. Mr Alvídrez is employed under a contract of employment with Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo S.A. de C.V., a subsidiary of Fresnillo plc. Mr Alvídrez’ contract was entered into on 15 August 2012 and is governed by Mexican Federal Labour Law. Mr Alvídrez’ service agreement does not have a fixed term and can be terminated in writing by either party with no entitlement to additional compensation for termination other than compensation payments required for termination without cause under Mexican labour laws. No benefits are payable on termination. The salary payable under Mr Alvídrez’ service agreement is MX$898,700 per month, which excludes payments for holidays, Companypaid savings contributions and other cash benefits. In 2016, his total salary payments were MX$14,780,860 (US$792,255). In 2015, his total salary payments were MX$14,078,946 (US$887,953). Mr Alvídrez was awarded a salary increase of 4.5% to reflect his development as Chief Executive Officer over the past year. Willis Towers Watson have confirmed that the salary review was in line with the remuneration policy. Under his service agreement, Mr Alvídrez is entitled to 26 working days’ paid holiday per year. He is not entitled to profit-sharing (PTU). Mr Alvídrez is also entitled to life insurance, the use of a chauffeur and company car, the payment of medical insurance premiums covering limited expenses and check-ups, meals and subsistence payments and club subscriptions. The Remuneration Committee consider that year-on-year changes to the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer align equitably with changes in the remuneration of the Company’s workforce for the following reasons: Salary The Remuneration Committee ordinarily use the same percentage agreed for the whole workforce as the percentage basis for the annual salary increase for the Chief Executive Officer. Bonus The Chief Executive is prohibited from participating in the PTU Scheme and therefore may only receive a maximum of six months’ pay. All other employees are eligible for PTU payments annually which can be as high as 200% of salary in exceptional years. Benefits The Chief Executive Officer participates in the Company-wide benefits scheme. Pension The Chief Executive Officer is a member of the Company’s standard pension scheme. Annual bonus Mr Alvídrez achieved 109.5 points under the bonus scheme for the year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: 104.1 points) and therefore was awarded a bonus of MX$3,594,800; (US$192,681); for 2016. Pensions The Group operates two pension schemes: a defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme (which was introduced on 1 July 2007). Further information on the Group’s pension schemes is set out in the remuneration policy on page 144. Malus and claw-back The introduction of the 2016 Corporate Governance Code requires companies to either introduce malus and/or claw-back provisions and other forms of deferred variable pay where appropriate, or explain why they have not complied with the Code. In 2016, the Company had not introduced any malus or claw-back provisions into the contractual agreements with the Chief Executive Officer; however the 2017 remuneration policy will give the Remuneration Committee discretion to reduce bonus payments to take account of poor operational or financial performance in previous years, see page 145 in the Directors’ remuneration policy section. Year-on-year percentage change in remuneration of CEO and all employees Percentage change (in US dollar amounts) 2016–2017 Base Salary/ Fees Benefits Annual Bonus Chief Executive Officer (10.8%) 12.3% 70.0% All employees (0.7%) (2.6%) (4.5%) Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 151 Implementation of the remuneration policy in 2016 and 2017 FRESNILLO TODAY In 2014, the Remuneration Committee asked Willis Towers Watson to recommend a framework for setting the salaries of Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee. Following this review, the Remuneration Committee established the peer group of companies for the purposes of validating the remuneration of Executive Directors (the ‘Peer Group’). The Peer Group consists of 11 resources companies from Europe (three companies), USA and Canada (six companies) and Mexico (two companies) (see page 144). The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the Chief Executive’s salary should be set within a range of 25% to 75% of the Peer Group for base salary. In 2016, Willis Towers Watson advised the Remuneration Committee that the CEO’s salary was well within the parameters set out in the remuneration policy. The new 2017 remuneration policy as set out on pages 142 to 146 of this Report will be presented to shareholders for approval at the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration Committee has considered the effectiveness of KPIs and targets that were set for 2016 and it continues to consider that the overall structure of the Incentive Plan and the targets set in 2016 remain appropriate for 2017 other than where adjusted to STRATEGIC REPORT reflect the 2017 business plan targets. The 2017 weightings and measures are therefore set out in the table below. The 2017 targets and performance against those targets will be disclosed in this report. Weighting Objective Measure Points 1 Production Increase in equivalent ounces produced compared to prior year production level 2 26 Exploration/growth Net increase in total resources compared to previous year-end total 2 10 Net increase in resources upgraded from inferred to indicated compared to previous 20 year-end total 2 Financial Year-on-year increase in net profit adjusted 3 17 Stakeholder Relationship with key stakeholder 4 5 Surface tenure 4 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Controls over contractors 4 3 Teamwork Collective teamwork across the Group 4 5 Succession Plan for Executive Committee positions 6 Safety Fatal accidents 5, 6 5 Total 100 Adjustments 7 – Total 100 1. The Points Weighting is considered by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that it reflects an appropriate balance of priorities for management. Where a change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the weighting will be amended in future years. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2. Any decrease in equivalent ounces produced and/or in reserves and resources will result in points being deducted from the total points scored. 3. Net profit is adjusted to exclude currency fluctuation, the effect of year-on-year changes in metals prices and any revaluation of the Silverstream contract. 4. The points awarded for the stakeholder and teamwork objectives are subject to some discretion. The following points are awarded depending on the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of the teamwork effort: Outstanding = 7 points; Satisfactory = 5 points; Underperformance = 0 points. 5. In the event of a single fatality, zero points will be awarded for safety. For the purposes of calculating fatalities; all fatalities are included, irrespective of whether they are employees or contractors. Conversely, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, the number of points awarded would be increased to 10 points. 6. In addition, to the penalty for a single fatality (see note 5), the number of points awarded will be further reduced by 1% if there are two fatalities. From the remaining total score, and additional 2% will be deducted if there are three fatalities. In the case of four fatal accidents, an additional 3% will be deducted from the remaining total score and so on for further fatalities. 7. In addition, in 2017, a further adjustment will be introduced for environmental incidents. In the event of an environmental incident, the total bonus score will be reduced by 2%. In the case of two incidents, a further 3% will be deducted. In the case of three incidents a further 4% will be deducted and so on. 152 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 continued Remuneration Committee Advisors to the Remuneration Committee Remuneration consultants are engaged by Group companies Membership to provide benchmarking information on remuneration but not The Remuneration Committee consisted of the following Directors to provide guidance on the structure of remuneration. All of the in the year ended 31 December 2016: consultants that the Group uses are independent of the Company. No remuneration consultants are directly engaged by the • Mr Charles Jacobs (Chairman), Independent Remuneration Committee itself. Non-executive Director • Mr Alberto Baillères, Chairman of the Board Benchmarking information on pay and employment conditions is • Mr Fernando Ruiz, Independent Non-executive Director supplied annually by Mercer, Hay Group and Data Compensation. The information provided is used across the Group in determining Mr Baillères was non-independent at the time of his appointment salaries for all employee grades including senior management. to the Board and therefore his membership of the Remuneration Whilst the Remuneration Committee takes such information into Committee does not comply with Code Provision D.2.1 of the account when considering executive remuneration, none of these UK Corporate Governance Code. However, the Board believes advisors are considered to materially assist the Remuneration that Mr Baillères’ experience and knowledge of the Group and Committee in the performance of its duties. the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committee’s deliberations justifies his membership In addition, the Remuneration Committee receives specific of the Remuneration Committee. Further information about reports comparing the remuneration of the members of the the rationale for the current membership of the Remuneration Executive Committee to international benchmarks. Willis Towers Committee is set out in the Chairman’s Annual Statement Watson have advised the Remuneration Committee in relation on pages 138 and 139. to the establishment of the Peer Group and the provision of benchmarking information showing the position of the Role remuneration, and particularly the salaries, of members of the The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making Executive Committee in relation to the Peer Group. Willis Towers recommendations to the Board on the Group’s remuneration Watson provide general advice and benchmarking information policy for senior management (the Chief Executive Officer and to the Group concerning executive remuneration and during 2016, other members of the Executive Committee), and for determining the Group paid Willis Towers Watson US$nil. specific remuneration packages for senior management, including pension rights and any compensation packages, as well as The Company Secretary ensures that the Remuneration remuneration of the Chairman within agreed terms of reference. Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference and provides regular updates to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, is responsible for setting the on relevant regulatory developments in the UK. Chairman’s remuneration; however the Chairman does not receive any remuneration other than his fee as a Non-executive Director The Group Human Resources Department provides information of the Company. on Mexican market trends and compensation structures for the broader employee population in the Fresnillo Group. Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been approved by the Board and are available on the Company’s AGM voting on the Remuneration Report website at: www.fresnilloplc.com. The Remuneration Committee’s approach to executive remuneration has received strong support from shareholders at Activity during 2016 every Annual General Meeting since the Company’s listing on the During the year, the Committee met four times. A summary of its London Stock Exchange in 2008. More than 99% of independent key activities during the year is set out in the Chairman’s Annual share votes cast on the advisory vote at each AGM have been in Statement on pages 138 and 139. favour of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Attendance Mr Charles Jacobs 3/3 Mr Alberto Baillères 3/3 Mr Fernando Ruiz 3/3 All shares voted Free float shares voted Number of votes For Against For Against withheld 2011 99.98% 0.02% 99.88% 0.12% 5,125 2012 99.91% 0.09% 99.54% 0.46% 1,814,818 2013 99.97% 0.03% 99.82% 0.18% 115,987 2014: Remuneration Policy 99.72% 0.28% 98.69% 1.31% 532,589 2014: Remuneration Report 100.00% 0.00% 99.99% 0.01% 531,072 2015: Remuneration Report 99.91% 0.09% 99.55% 0.45% 814,989 2016: Remuneration Report 99.89% 0.11% 99.48% 0.52% 44,391 Note: Prior to 2014, there was only one vote on the Directors Remuneration Report at each annual general meeting. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 153 Payments to departing Directors FRESNILLO TODAY During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors; neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office. Performance reviews As required by the Regulations, the following graph sets out the performance of the Company’s share price since its listing compared to the FTSE 100 Index. This is deemed to be the most appropriate indices for comparative purposes. Key Fresnillo – Total Return Index FTSE 100 – Total Return Index 500 STRATEGIC REPORT 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer for the past six years, in US dollars, has been as follows: Year ending 31 December 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Chief Executive Officer Jaime Lomelin Octavio Alvídrez Total remuneration US$000s – Jaime Lomelin 1,698 1,329 1 – – – – – Octavio Alvídrez – 580 1,116 1,217 1,166 1,111 Total 1,698 1,909 1,116 1,217 1,166 1,111 Percentage change on previous year (11.1%) 12.4% (41.5%) 9.1% (4.2%) (4.7%) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Proportion of maximum bonus paid to CEO in year Jaime Lomelin 33.33% 66.66% – – – – Octavio Alvídrez – 66.66% 33.33% 33.33% 33.33% 66.66% 1. This figure only relates to remuneration paid to Jamie Lomelin in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer in 2012. Relative importance of the spend on pay 2016 2015 % Change Staff costs (US$000s) 1 85,889 88,593 (3.1%) Distributions to shareholders (US$000s) 88,059 37,582 134.3% 1. Staff costs are taken without PTU in order to make a like-for-like comparison with the Chief Executive Officer who does not receive PTU. This Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc. Signed on behalf of the Board. Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2017 154 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Directors’ Report In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors of Fresnillo plc present their report for the year ended 31 December 2016. The Directors believe that the requisite components of this report are set out elsewhere in this Annual Report and/or on the Company’s website, www.fresnilloplc.com. The table sets out where the necessary disclosures can be found. Directors Directors that have served during the year and summaries of the current Directors’ key skills and experience are set out in the corporate governance report on pages 116 and 117. Results and dividends Results for the year ended 31 December 2016 are set out in the financial review on pages 100 to 111. and the Consolidated Income Statement on page 167. Information regarding the proposed final dividend can be found in the financial review on page 111. Dividend payments made during the year ended 31 December 2016 can be found in the notes to the financial statements on page 198. Articles of Association The Company’s full Articles of Association can be found on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc.com/ who-we-are/corporate-governance/. Any amendments made to the Articles of Association may be made by a special resolution of shareholders. The following is a summary of the structure, rights and restrictions of the Company’s share capital: The Company has two classes of share capital: 736,893,589 ordinary shares of US$0.50 (Ordinary Shares) and 50,000 deferred shares of £1.00 each (Sterling Deferred Shares). The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Mexican Stock Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by UK law and the Company’s Articles of Association. Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy (or being a corporation represented by a duly authorised representative) shall have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held. The Notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies. There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares other than: • the standard restrictions for a UK-quoted company set out in article 32 of the Articles of Association; • where, from time to time, certain restrictions may become imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and • pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares. A Director may be elected either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director, but so that the total number of Directors shall not thereby exceed the maximum in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. Any person so appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for election. No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control of the Company. There are no limitations on the holding of securities. There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, with the Company’s co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities. There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of voting rights. The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on winding up or on a return of capital. The Sterling Deferred Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares. Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares are not transferable. Share capital Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 18 to the financial statements on page 197. Authority to purchase own Details on the Company’s current authority to purchase its own shares and that being sought at the shares forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in the corporate governance report on page 125. Directors’ interests Details of the Directors’ beneficial interests are set out in the remuneration report on page 149. Directors’ indemnities The Company has given indemnities to each of the Directors in respect of any liability arising against them in connection with the Company’s (and any associated company’s) activities in the conduct of their duties. These indemnities are subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006 and remain in place at the date of this report. Directors’ and Officers’ Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance cover is in place at the date of this report. Cover is reviewed Liability Insurance annually and the last renewal was carried out in October 2016. Major interests in shares Notifiable major shares interests of which the Company has been made aware are set out on page 125 of the corporate governance report. Change of control Details setting out the effect of a change of control of the Company on significant agreements are set out on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 155 Political contributions The Company did not make any donations to political organisations during the year. FRESNILLO TODAY Greenhouse gas emissions Details of the Company’s greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the sustainability report on page 88 of the strategic report. Financial risk Details of the Company’s policies on financial risk management and the Company’s exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are outlined in note 31 to the financial statements. Branches outside the UK The Company’s operations are outside of the UK. Activities in research The Company does not have any Research & Development activities in the UK. and development Future developments Details about the Company’s future developments can be found in the strategic review on pages 28 and 29. Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. STRATEGIC REPORT Post balance sheet events There have been no post balance sheet events. Audit information Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: • so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and • he/she has taken all the reasonable steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of the information. The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Signed on behalf of the Board. Charles Jacobs Senior Independent Director 27 February 2017 Fresnillo plc Registered Office: 21 Upper Brook Street London, W1K 7PY United Kingdom Company No: 6344120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Additional Listing Rule Disclosures Disclosure requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.4 C are identified below along with cross-references indicating where the relevant information is set out in the annual report: • Capitalised interest for the year ended 31 December 2016 and information regarding tax relief can be found on page 194; • Details of significant contracts with controlling shareholders can be found on page 136; • Details pertaining to services provided to the Company by Peñoles are set out on page 195; • Statement confirming agreement has been entered into with controlling shareholder and that independence provisions are complied with can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 119. 156 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to and the Group and parent company financial statements in any person in relation to the annual financial report except to the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those extent that such liability could arise under English law. Accordingly, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any by the European Union. untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section 90A and schedule 10A of the Financial The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for Services and Markets Act 2000. each financial year which present a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the In accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance financial performance and cash flows of the Company and of Code, the Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, the Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Directors are required to: information to enable shareholders to assess the Company’s • select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: performance, business model and strategy. ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ and then apply them consistently; Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the • present information, including accounting policies, in a manner annual report and accounts that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable I confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of its knowledge: information; • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the a) the financial statements, prepared in accordance with specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by understand the impact of particular transactions, other events the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, and conditions on the Company and of the Group’s financial liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company position and financial performance; and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as • state that the Company and the Group has complied with IFRS, a whole; and subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and b) the management report (encompassed within the ‘Overview’, • prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having ‘Strategic report’, ‘Performance’ and ‘Governance’ sections) assessed the ability of the Company and the Group to continue includes a fair review of the development and performance as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the of the business, and the position of the Company and the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, do so. together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time For and on behalf of the Board the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with Charles Jacobs the Companies Acts 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Senior Independent Director They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 27 February 2017 Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Under applicable UK law and regulations the Directors are responsible for the preparation of a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance report that comply with that law and regulations. In addition the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 157 Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Fresnillo plc Opinion on financial statements FRESNILLO TODAY In our opinion: • Fresnillo plc’s Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; • the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and • the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. What we have audited Fresnillo plc’s financial statements comprise: STRATEGIC REPORT Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Company statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Company statement of cash flows for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 18 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs CORPORATE GOVERNANCE as adopted by the European Union. Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement • Recognition of related party transactions, including revenue recognition. • Valuation of the Silverstream contract. • Disclosures, provisions and asset recoverability arising from the El Bajío ejido litigation and land disputes. • Estimation of mineral reserves and resources. • Recoverability of investments in subsidiaries (Parent Company only). Audit scope • We performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components, being the four operating mining units and the Parent Company. These components accounted for: –– 100% of revenues; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS –– 104% of profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects; and, –– 82% of total assets. • In addition, we performed specified procedures on specific balances at a further five components. These components accounted for: –– 100% of the Silverstream revaluation effects; –– Negative 4% of Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects; and, –– 16% of total assets. Materiality • We assessed overall Group materiality to be US$29.2 million which represents 5% of profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects. Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas. 158 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditor’s Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued Area of audit risk Recognition of related party transactions, including revenue recognition u • All of the Group’s current year revenue from the sale of production, and a significant amount of its expenses incurred, arise from transactions with related parties. These related parties are principally subsidiaries of the Group’s direct parent, Industrias Peñoles (‘Peñoles’). • Principal transactions include the sale of production to the Met-Mex refinery, administrative services received and the Silverstream contract. • There is a risk that, if not at arm’s length or not reflecting the goods or services provided in the period, such transactions could be used to manipulate earnings or to distribute profits to the Group’s parent. • There is also a risk that revenues are inappropriately recognised as a result of incorrect cut-off or inappropriate measurement of product sold. Ü Our judgement is that the level of risk in this area remains consistent with the prior year. We have not made significant changes to our audit response Related party transactions are disclosed in note 27 to the compared to the prior year, other than extending the use of consolidated financial statements and Revenues in note 4. data analysis. Our audit response Identification of related parties • We evaluated the appropriateness of management’s process for identifying, recording and and related party transactions reporting related party transactions. • We read contracts and agreements with related parties to understand the nature of the transactions. • Throughout the performance of our audit procedures, we remained alert for any related party transactions outside the normal course of business. Revenue recognition • On a sample basis we performed testing to verify physical deliveries of product in the year. • We performed revenue cut-off testing. • We evaluated the appropriateness of the accounting for embedded derivatives arising from the provisional pricing terms in sales contracts. • We obtained an understanding of the basis of the treatment and refining charges negotiated between the Group and Peñoles for the current year, these being a deduction from revenues. • We compared actual revenues on a disaggregated basis to detailed expectations developed based on production in the year and market prices for relevant metals to identify and understand variances for further investigation. Costs • We utilised data analysis tools to interrogate entire data sets for potential related party transactions. • We compared actual results against detailed expectations of income statement line items impacted by related party transactions to corroborate that there was no evidence of manipulation. Silverstream contract • We tested a sample of cash receipts in respect of silver payable under the contract in the year. The Silverstream contract is discussed separately below. Accuracy of disclosures • We verified that related party disclosures in the financial statements are consistent with the results of our audit procedures. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee • Our procedures did not identify issues with the identification, recording or reporting of related party transactions. • We concluded that revenue recognition in the year is appropriate, including the treatment of related provisional pricing terms. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 159 Area of audit risk FRESNILLO TODAY Valuation of the Silverstream contract n • The valuation of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument, uses a discounted cash flow model. • Key assumptions are the estimation of the reserves and resources and the related production profile of the Sabinas mine (owned and operated by Peñoles), future silver prices and the discount rate applied. These assumptions require management judgement and estimation. • The resulting valuation is sensitive to changes in these assumptions which may result in material revaluation effects in the financial statements. Our judgement is that the level of risk in this area remains consistent with the prior year. In response to the impact that the increase in Sabinas reserves and Details of the revaluation of the Silverstream contract are disclosed resources had on the valuation in the current year, we increased the in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. STRATEGIC REPORT extent of our procedures in this respect. Our audit response Valuation model • In conjunction with our valuation specialists, we evaluated the appropriateness of the valuation approach and related model used by the Company to determine the fair value of the Silverstream contract under accounting standards. Reserves and resources • We issued instructions to the auditor of Peñoles to perform and report to us on the following and production profile procedures with respect to the Sabinas mine: of the Sabinas mine –– conducting walkthroughs to confirm our understanding of Peñoles management’s processes to estimate quantities of reserves and resources and to develop the Sabinas mine plan; –– testing of certain key Peñoles controls which address the risks associated with the estimation of reserves and resources quantities and accuracy of the resulting mine plan; CORPORATE GOVERNANCE –– gaining an understanding of reasons for changes in estimates of reserves and resources in the year; –– assessing the professional competence, objectivity, and capabilities of Peñoles’ internal specialists involved in the estimation of reserves and resources quantities; –– evaluating the reasonableness and appropriateness of inputs to the reserves and resources estimates and Sabinas mine plan as at 31 December 2016; and, –– verifying that the Sabinas mine plan appropriately incorporates the reserves and resources estimate. • We discussed the results of the above procedures and reviewed key working papers. • We interviewed the Sabinas mine geologist in order to understand the assumptions used in the estimation of reserves and resources and movements in the estimation in the year. Key economic assumptions • With assistance from our valuation specialists we corroborated key economic assumptions in in the valuation the valuation, including future silver prices, foreign exchange rates and the discount rate applied. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This included comparison to market data to consider the appropriateness of silver price and discount rate assumptions when considered together in the valuation model and analysis of the consistency of assumptions to other accounting estimates. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee • The valuation model is consistent with that used in prior periods and we consider this appropriate for the nature of this long-term derivative contract. • We concluded that the valuation of the Silverstream contract is reasonable as at 31 December 2016 and that the related gain recognised in income was appropriate. 160 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditor’s Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued Area of audit risk Disclosures, provisions and asset recoverability arising from the El Bajío ejido litigation and land disputes l • The El Bajío litigation and land disputes may create uncertainty around the Group’s ability to freely realise the carrying values of impacted assets in the Group’s balance sheet and may give rise to further asset impairment. Related assets are capitalised mining costs and inventory held in leaching pads at the impacted mine site. • The assessment of the recoverability of impacted assets and appropriate disclosure or provisions in the financial statements requires judgement about the future legal outcome of claims and land disputes and estimates of related financial impacts. Our judgement is that there has been some reduction in the level of risk in this area as a result of rulings in favour of the Company. This change in risk did not impact our audit response. Contingencies in respect of the El Bajío ejido litigation and land disputes are disclosed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements. Our audit response Recoverability of assets • We assessed management’s conclusion that there is sufficient likelihood of future economic benefits flowing from the use of assets impacted by the El Bajío land disputes that continue to be carried on the Group’s balance sheet. • We evaluated management’s assessment of related indicators of impairment in respect of those assets. Inventory valuation • We assessed management’s estimation of the recoverable value of inventory that is impacted by land disputes, including corroborating gold price assumptions to market data. Future legal outcome of claims • We evaluated management’s assessment of the current status of the El Bajío ejido litigation and claims against the Group and considered whether there is a requirement for any provision or related disclosures under accounting standards. • We obtained independent legal confirmation letters from the Group’s external lawyers advising on these issues, and assessed these for consistency with management’s conclusions. We assessed these lawyers as specialists engaged by management. • We assessed the Group’s internal legal counsel as a management specialist. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee • We concluded that, based on the facts and circumstances of the El Bajío ejido litigation and land disputes, management’s assessment that no provision is required and that the impacted assets are recoverable at 31 December 2016 is appropriate. • The legal confirmations we received supported management’s judgements in this area. • We consider that the disclosure in note 26 of related contingencies is also appropriate. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 161 Area of audit risk FRESNILLO TODAY Estimation of mineral reserves and resources p • The estimation of mineral reserves and resources quantities of the Group’s mines requires significant judgement and estimation. • The Group’s reserves and resources are audited by SRK Consulting (‘SRK’). • Reserves and resources, and related production profiles, are a key input to a number of areas impacting the financial statements, most significantly the recoverable value of mining assets and investments in subsidiaries (Parent Company only), the calculation of depletion, depreciation and amortisation, and the assessment of going concern and viability. • Additionally, reported reserves and resources may impact investor valuations of the Group. Our judgement is that the level of risk in this area remains consistent with the prior year. We have not made significant changes to our audit response The reserves and resources tables are presented on page 242, compared to the prior year. after the Parent Company notes. STRATEGIC REPORT Our audit response Estimation process • We walked through the process of estimation of the reserves and resources quantities. • We identified key controls in this process and obtained evidence of their implementation. External specialists • We assessed SRK as a specialist engaged by management. • Through discussions with SRK, we have gained an understanding of the scope of their work to verify that this was appropriate. • We read the report of the external specialist and gained an understanding of the changes in reserves and resources estimates in the year. Use of reserves and resources in • We tested that the audited reserves and resources estimates have been appropriately applied financial statement calculations to relevant areas of the Group’s financial statements. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee • We assessed SRK as an appropriate specialist engaged by management for the purposes of auditing the reserves and resources of the Group. • We confirmed that the audited reserves and resources estimates have been appropriately used in relevant financial statement calculations. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 162 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditor’s Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued Area of audit risk Recoverability of investments in subsidiaries (Parent Company only) s • Investments in subsidiaries are more sensitive to changes in recoverable value than the Group’s underlying mining assets because these investments were re-measured at fair value in 2008 when the Group was established ahead of the Initial Public Offering. • Management’s assessment of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries requires estimation and judgement around assumptions used. The principal driver of recoverable value is the estimated value of underlying mining assets held by the Group’s subsidiaries. • The key assumptions underpinning management’s assessment of the recoverable amount of mining assets are reserves and resources and related production profiles, estimated future operating and capital expenditure, future commodity prices and exchange rates and the discount rates applied. • Changes to assumptions could lead to material changes in estimated recoverable amounts, resulting in either impairment or reversals of impairment taken in prior years. Our judgement is that the level of risk in this area remains consistent with the prior year but is now principally relating to the reversal of impairment recognised in prior years (rather than impairment) as a result of strengthening metals prices. We have not made significant changes to our audit response Management’s assessment of the significant judgement and compared to the prior year. estimation required is set out in note 2(c) to the Parent Company financial statements and sensitivities to changes in price which may result in impairment are set out in note 6. Our audit response Indicators of impairment and • We have reviewed management’s identification of indicators of impairment under accounting methodology used to estimate standards. recoverable values • We have assessed the methodology used by management to estimate the recoverable value of each investment for which an impairment test was performed to ensure that this is consistent with accounting standards. This included the valuation of underlying mining assets. • We have assessed the valuation models used by management to estimate the recoverable value of each investment, in conjunction with any intra-Group balances. Key internal assumptions used in • We have verified reserves and resources quantities underpinning the mine plans by comparing management’s estimate of the these to estimates audited by SRK, a specialist engaged by management. recoverable values of mining assets • We assessed the professional competence, objectivity and capabilities of SRK as a specialist engaged by management. • We agreed related production profiles to the current mine plans for each mine and considered their consistency with our understanding of future plans at the mines obtained through interviews with both operating and senior management. • We assessed operating and capital costs included in the cash flow forecasts for consistency with current operating costs and forecast mine production. Key external assumptions used in • Working with our valuation specialists we have assessed management’s assumptions relating management’s estimate of the to future metals prices and discount rates, comparing these to market data and also for recoverable values of mining assets consistency with other estimates used in the financial statements. • We have performed sensitivity analysis on management’s calculated recoverable values for alternative assumptions around silver prices and the discount rate applied. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee • We consider the approach to determining the recoverable value of each investment tested for impairment to be appropriate. • Our procedures confirmed that the reserves and resources and related production profiles are consistent with the estimates audited by SRK and respective mine plans. • Our procedures confirmed that the estimates of operating and capital costs are consistent with the production profiles of respective mines and related mine plans. • We concluded that the carrying values of investments in subsidiaries, after reversals of impairments as reflected in the Parent Company financial statements, are reasonable. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 163 Changes in our assessment of the risks of material misstatement as compared with those reported in the prior year are: FRESNILLO TODAY • In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to the recoverability of mining assets. With the strengthening of gold and silver prices and the weakening of the Mexican peso reducing mining costs we do not consider this to be a risk of material misstatement in the current year for the Group financial statements. • The recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries (Parent Company only), remains a risk of material misstatement. The recoverability of underlying mining assets is a key driver of related recoverable values so remains an area of audit focus in this context. The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account size, risk profile and the organisation of the Group and the effectiveness of Group-wide controls and other factors such as the results of the work of Internal Audit when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity. STRATEGIC REPORT We performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components (2015: five) (‘full scope components’) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. These components are the four operating mining units in Mexico and the Parent Company. We also performed specified audit procedures on specific account balances in a further five components (2015: five classified as specific scope components). The procedures were on those account balances within those components which we deemed to be significant either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. These accounts included taxation, mine closure provisions, cash and cash equivalents and all balances relating to the Silverstream contract. The reporting components where we performed audit procedures represented: Key Full scope Specific scope Specified procedures Other procedures CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1 2 1 1 105 100 100 100 100 104 2 16 1 15 82 84 -4 -6 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 0 2015 2016 2015 Group revenue Silverstream revaluation effect Group’s profit before tax excluding Total assets Silverstream revaluation effects FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The audit scope of components at which we have performed specified procedures (2015: Specific scope components) may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage reflected above. The remaining components together represent an effect on the Group’s Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects of less than 1% (2015: (6)%) and 2% of total assets (2015: 1%). For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements. Changes from the prior year There were no significant changes in our scoping as compared to the prior year. We have performed specified procedures in 2016 on the same five components that were classified as specific scope in 2015. Related audit procedures at these components have not significantly changed. Involvement with component teams All of the Group’s significant operations are in Mexico and are audited by one local team under our direct supervision. Work performed by Primary team One component team under our direct supervision Full scope components l llll (Parent Company) Components on which specified audit l llll procedures are performed (Silverstream contract*) * In respect of the valuation of the Silverstream contract, we perform primary procedures directly, the component team performs certain supporting procedures regarding cash receipts, and the auditor of Peñoles provides support in respect of procedures on the estimation of reserve and resource quantities and the related mine plan at the Sabinas mine. 164 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditor’s Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued The primary engagement team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, visited Mexico five times during the audit, during both the planning and execution phases, with members of the team working with and supervising the component team in Mexico for a number of weeks. These visits involved discussion and oversight of the component team audit approach, consideration of any accounting and auditing issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers, meeting with management and attending closing meetings. Senior members of the component team attended a Global Team Planning Event in the planning phase of the audit and the primary team interacted regularly with the local team between visits to Mexico as appropriate. The primary engagement team is predominantly composed of Spanish speakers in order to further enhance our interactions with both the component team and management. The primary team was responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. For certain procedures, in particular areas involving significant judgement and heightened audit risk, we performed work ourselves with support where required from the component team. In other cases, we reviewed key working papers including, but not limited to, the risk areas described above. The audit work at the ten components was executed at levels of performance materiality applicable to each individual component as allocated by the primary team and discussed below. This involvement with the local component team in Mexico, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements. Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures. We determined materiality for the Group to be US$29.2 million (2015: US$9.2 million), which is 5% (2015: 5%) of profit before tax prior to Silverstream revaluation effects. This is a consistent basis to 2015. We believe that this measure of profit represents one of the principal considerations for members of the Group, particularly as the Silverstream revaluation effects are principally non-cash in nature. US$ million 800 700 600 718.2 133.5 500 584.7 400 300 200 100 0 Profit Silverstream Basis for before revaluation materiality tax effect During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial planning materiality and updated its calculation for the actual financial results of the year. This resulted in planning materiality increasing by US$3.3 million. Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality. On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, it is our judgement that performance materiality is 75% (2015: 75%) of our planning materiality, namely US$21.9 million (2015: US$6.9 million). We based this judgement on factors including the past history of misstatements, our ability to assess the likelihood of misstatements and the effectiveness of the internal control environment. Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. The performance materiality allocated to full-scope components in the current year is set out in the graph on page 165. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 165 Allocated performance materiality increased in respect of all components, reflecting the overall performance of the Group and the FRESNILLO TODAY individual contributions of the components to that performance. Performance materiality (US$m) Risks* Fresnillo group 6.9 21.9 ulnp 718.2 133.5 6.9 584.7 Fresnillo plc 18.6 us 3.8 Penmont mining unit 14.3 ulp 4.5 Saucito mining unit 13.2 up STRATEGIC REPORT 3.1 Fresnillo mining unit 8.8 up Key 1.0 2015 Clenega mining unit 5.5 2016 up * The risk icons correspond to the risks set out above. Audit procedures in respect of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries are performed at the performance materiality of the standalone parent financial statements. Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 5% of planning materiality, being US$1.5 million (2015: US$0.5 million), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting CORPORATE GOVERNANCE on qualitative grounds. We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion. Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 2016 Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 156, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; • the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and • the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 112 to 155 in the 2016 Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 166 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditor’s Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting We have no exceptions to report. We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or • apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or • otherwise misleading. In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business model and strategy; and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed. Companies Act 2006 reporting We have no exceptions to report. We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or • the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or • certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. Listing Rules review requirements We have no exceptions to report. We are required to review: • The Directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 55, and longer-term viability, set out on pages 54 and 55; and • the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. Statement on the Directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity IISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting We have nothing material to add We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw or to draw attention to. attention to in relation to: • the Directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; • the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated; • the Directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and • the Directors’ explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. Daniel Trotman (Senior statutory auditor) for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 28 February 2017 1. The maintenance and integrity of the Fresnillo plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. 2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 167 Consolidated Income Statement Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015 FRESNILLO TODAY Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Pre-Silverstream Silverstream Pre-Silverstream Silverstream revaluation revaluation revaluation revaluation effect effect Total effect effect Total Continuing operations Revenues 4 1,905,503 1,905,503 1,444,386 1,444,386 Cost of sales 5 (1,023,388) (1,023,388) (1,011,316) (1,011,316) Gross profit 882,115 882,115 433,070 433,070 Administrative expenses (59,157) (59,157) (62,820) (62,820) Exploration expenses 6 (121,182) (121,182) (140,246) (140,246) Selling expenses (16,277) (16,277) (13,693) (13,693) Other operating income 8 1,398 1,398 778 778 Other operating expenses 8 (10,442) (10,442) (16,650) (16,650) STRATEGIC REPORT Profit from continuing operations before net finance costs and income tax 676,455 676,455 200,439 200,439 Finance income 9 6,958 6,958 65,838 65,838 Finance costs 9 (80,323) (80,323) (45,463) (45,463) Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 14 – 133,528 133,528 – 27,720 27,720 Foreign exchange loss (18,378) (18,378) (36,180) (36,180) Profit from continuing operations before income tax 584,712 133,528 718,240 184,634 27,720 212,354 Corporate income tax 10 (219,808) (40,058) (259,866) (120,690) (8,316) (129,006) Special mining right 10 (33,412) (33,412) (13,958) (13,958) Income tax expense 10 (253,220) (40,058) (293,278) (134,648) (8,316) (142,964) Profit for the year from CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continuing operations 331,492 93,470 424,962 49,986 19,404 69,390 Attributable to Equity shareholders of the Company 333,516 93,470 426,986 51,119 19,404 70,523 Non-controlling interest (2,024) (2,024) (1,133) (1,133) 331,492 93,470 424,962 49,986 19,404 69,390 Earnings per share (US$) Basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 11 – 0.579 – 0.096 Adjusted earnings per share (US$) Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 11 0.453 – 0.069 – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 168 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Profit for the year 424,962 69,390 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Losses on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 1,184 26,422 Income tax effect 10 (355) (7,927) Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges (52,918) 39,521 Income tax effect 10 15,875 (11,856) Net effect of cash flow hedges (36,214) 46,160 Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 13 44,729 (14,636) Income tax effect 13 (13,418) 4,391 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets taken to income during the year – 2,896 Income tax effect 10 – (869) Net effect of available-for-sale financial assets 31,311 (8,218) Foreign currency translation 3 (134) Net other comprehensive (expense)/income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: (4,900) 37,808 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 22 2,443 (2,273) Income tax effect 10 (388) 361 Net other comprehensive income/(expense) that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 2,055 (1,912) Other comprehensive (expense)/income, net of tax (2,845) 35,896 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 422,117 105,286 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 424,141 106,419 Non-controlling interests (2,024) (1,133) 422,117 105,286 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 169 Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December As at 31 December FRESNILLO TODAY 2016 2015 restated Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 12 2,180,217 2,138,588 Available-for-sale financial assets 13 116,171 71,442 Silverstream contract 14 438,811 358,164 Derivative financial instruments 30 16,532 97,473 Deferred tax asset 10 20,023 30,814 Inventories 15 89,351 76,375 Other receivables 16 990 2,289 Other assets 3,385 3,372 2,865,480 2,778,517 STRATEGIC REPORT Current assets Inventories 15 187,499 224,200 Trade and other receivables 16 286,678 237,992 Income tax recoverable – 67,690 Prepayments 2,839 2,966 Derivative financial instruments 30 6,618 19,602 Silverstream contract 14 28,718 26,607 Short-term investments 17 200,000 118,718 Cash and cash equivalents 17 711,954 381,420 1,424,306 1,079,195 Total assets 4,289,786 3,857,712 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the Company Share capital 18 368,546 368,546 Share premium 18 1,153,817 1,153,817 Capital reserve 18 (526,910) (526,910) Hedging reserve 18 – 36,214 Available-for-sale financial assets reserve 18 47,608 16,297 Foreign currency translation reserve 18 (728) (731) Retained earnings 18 1,637,888 1,296,906 2,680,221 2,344,139 Non-controlling interests 36,147 30,202 Total equity 2,716,368 2,374,341 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans 20 798,027 797,032 Derivative financial instruments 30 16 – Provision for mine closure cost 21 149,109 195,476 Provision for pensions and other post-employment benefit plans 22 9,095 14,534 Deferred tax liability 10 463,050 373,009 1,419,297 1,380,051 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 23 121,633 89,630 Income tax payable 18,842 – Derivative financial instruments 30 630 1,427 Employee profit sharing 13,016 12,263 154,121 103,320 Total liabilities 1,573,418 1,483,371 Total equity and liabilities 4,289,786 3,857,712 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Mr Arturo Fernandez Non-executive Director 27 February 2017 170 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Net cash from operating activities 29 897,958 542,894 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (434,050) (474,692) Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 277 6,077 Repayments of loans granted to contractors 2,626 1,567 Short-term investments 17 (81,282) 176,475 Silverstream contract 14 47,565 39,430 Interest received 6,958 4,614 Net cash used in investing activities (457,906) (246,529) Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 19 (88,219) (37,529) Capital contribution 7,361 4,796 Interest paid 1 20 (28,028) (35,144) Net cash used in financing activities (108,886) (67,877) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year 331,166 228,488 Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents (632) (1,408) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 381,420 154,340 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 17 711,954 381,420 1. Total interest paid during the year ended 31 December 2016 less amounts capitalised totalling US$18.2 million (31 December 2015: US$11.1 million) which were included within the caption Purchase of property, plant and equipment. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 171 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Year ended 31 December Attributable to the equity holders of the Company FRESNILLO TODAY US$ thousands Foreign Available-forcurrency NonShare Share Hedging sale financial translation Retained controlling Total Notes capital premium Capital reserve reserve assets reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity Balance at 1 January 2015 368,546 1,153,817 (526,910) (9,946) 24,515 (597) 1,265,877 2,275,302 26,539 2,301,841 Profit/(Loss) for the year – – – – – – 70,523 70,523 (1,133) 69,390 Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – 46,160 (8,218) (134) (1,912) 35,896 – 35,896 Total comprehensive STRATEGIC REPORT income for the year – – – 46,160 (8,218) (134) 68,611 106,419 (1,133) 105,286 Capital contribution – – – – – – – – 4,796 4,796 Dividends declared and paid 19 – – – – – – (37,582) (37,582) – (37,582) Balance at 31 December 2015 368,546 1,153,817 (526,910) 36,214 16,297 (731) 1,296,906 2,344,139 30,202 2,374,341 Profit/(Loss) for the year – – – – – – 426,986 426,986 (2,024) 424,962 Other comprehensive CORPORATE GOVERNANCE income, net of tax – – – (36,214) 31,311 3 2,055 (2,845) – (2,845) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (36,214) 31,311 3 429,041 424,141 (2,024) 422,117 Capital contribution – – – – – – – – 7,969 7,969 Dividends declared and paid 19 – – – – – – (88,059) (88,059) – (88,059) Balance at 31 December 2016 368,546 1,153,817 (526,910) – 47,608 (728) 1,637,888 2,680,221 36,147 2,716,368 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 172 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Corporate information Fresnillo plc. (‘the Company’) is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 5 of the Parent Company accounts (‘the Group’). Industrias Peñoles S.A.B. de C.V. (‘Peñoles’) currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillères family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peñoles. The registered address of Peñoles is Calzada Legaria 549, Mexico City 11250. Copies of Peñoles’ accounts can be obtained from www.penoles.com.mx. Further information on related party balances and transactions with Peñoles’ group companies is disclosed in note 27. The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 27 February 2017. The Group’s principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production. The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc. Further information about the Group operating mines and its principal activities is disclosed in note 3. 2. Significant accounting policies (a) Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value. The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America (US dollars or US$) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand ($000) except when otherwise indicated. Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Group’s financial position as of 31 December 2016 and 2015, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended. Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group. The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3. All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interest’s share of changes in equity since the date of the combination. Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance. Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, a transaction with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interest are also recorded in equity. (b) Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. During 2016, there were no amendments to existing accounting policies. As at 31 December 2015, derivatives relating to the gold hedging programme initiated in 2014 that mature after one year had been presented as current assets. During 2016, the Group restated the prior year comparatives and reclassified these derivatives to non-current assets. The reclassification resulted in an increase in non-current assets and a corresponding reduction in current assets by US$97.5 million as at 31 December 2015, with no impact on previously reported profit, other comprehensive income, liabilities, equity, cash flow or earnings per share. In addition, there is no tax effect and no impact on segmental disclosures. New standards, interpretations and amendments (new standards) adopted by the Group The Group has adopted ‘IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative – Amendments to IAS 1’. The amendments clarify existing requirements on materiality, aggregation and disaggregation in the preparation of financial statements and presentation of the notes. This amendment had no impact in the financial information of the Group. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 173 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY Other than the above mentioned amendment there were no significant new standards that the Group was required to adopt effective from 1 January 2016. Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial statements are disclosed below. The Group intends to adopt these standards, as applicable to the Group’s financial statements, when they become effective, except where indicated. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which concludes all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9. IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. The Group plans to adopt IFRS 9 Financial instruments from the mandatory effective date. The Group has completed a preliminary assessment of the expected major impacts of this standard, the most relevant are set out below. STRATEGIC REPORT Nature of change IFRS 9 addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets. The derecognition rules are consistent with those under IAS 39. Main impact IFRS 9 makes significant changes in the classification of financial assets. Whereas under IAS 39, the default classification for financial assets was available-for-sale financial assets, under IFRS 9 the residual category is to recognise fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). Generally under IFRS 9, investments in equity instruments are recognised as FVTPL unless the Group makes an election, in respect of investments that are not held for trading, to measure the instruments at fair value through OCI (FVOCI). The Group expects to designate all investments currently recognised in available-for-sale financial assets as FVOCI. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In accordance with IFRS 9, this means that all movements relating to such assets are recognised in OCI. Neither gains nor losses on disposal or significant or prolonged declines in the value of these investments are recognised in profit or loss. Hedge accounting The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Group’s risk management practices. IFRS 9 changes the accounting requirements for the time value of purchased options where only the intrinsic value of such options has been designated as the hedging instrument. In such cases, changes in the time value of options are initially recognised in OCI. Amounts related to the time value of options are reclassified to profit or loss or as a basis adjustment to assets or liabilities upon maturity of the hedged item, or, in the case of a hedged FINANCIAL STATEMENTS item that realises over time, over the life of the hedged item. Under IAS 39, the change in time value of options is recorded in the income statement. Impairment model The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses (ECL) rather than on the basis of credit losses incurred as is the case under IAS 39. It will apply to Group’s financial assets classified at amortised cost and debt instruments measured at FVOCI. IFRS 9 also sets out a simplified approach for traded and lease receivables that do not contain a significant financing component in accordance with IFRS 15. Expected date of The Group plans to adopt IFRS 9 effective 1 January 2018 and plans to apply the limited exemption relating adoption by Group to transition for classification and measurement and impairment, and accordingly will not restate comparative and considerations periods in the year of initial application. Generally, the change in hedge requirements are accounted for prospectively; however, in the case of the recognition of time value of options in OCI, this is adjusted for retrospectively. The Group expects the adjustment from retained earnings to hedging reserve as at 1 January 2017, the beginning of the comparative period for the year of implementation, to be US$23.0 million, reflecting the time value of the open positions as at 1 January 2017. In the year ended 31 December 2016, this amount was recognised in finance cost, in accordance with IAS 39. 174 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS. Early adoption is permitted. IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. The Group plans to adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from the mandatory effective date. The Group has completed a preliminary assessment of the expected major impacts of this standard, the most relevant are set out below. Nature of change IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for recognition of revenue from contracts with customers based on a core principle that an entity should recognise revenue representing the transfer of promised goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Main impact As described in the accounting policies section, The Group’s revenue is derived from one revenue stream that corresponds to the sale of goods (concentrates, precipitates and doré bars). The Group has evaluated recognition and measurement of revenue based on the five-step model in IFRS 15 and has not identified any material expected financial impacts. IFRS 15 includes disclosure requirements to enable users of the financial statements to understand the amount, timing, risk and judgements related to revenue recognition and related cash flows. Certain disclosures will change as a result of the requirements of IFRS 15. The Group expects this to include a breakdown of revenue from customers and revenue from other sources, including the movement in the value of embedded derivatives in sales contracts. Expected date of The Group plans to adopt IFRS 15 effective 1 January 2018 and to apply the simplified transition method, hence adoption by Group the cumulative effect of adoption, if any, will be recognised in retained earnings. The Group currently expects and considerations the cumulative effect to be nil. IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17. Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted. However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early application is restricted to entities that also early adopt IFRS 15. The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and is considering early adoption in 2018 to align with the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative The amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes. The amendments do not prescribe a specific format to disclose financing activities; however, an entity may fulfil the disclosure objective by providing reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the statement of financial position for liabilities arising from financing activities. The amendments apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with earlier application permitted. Entities are not required to present comparative information for earlier periods. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Group. Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the asset’s tax base. They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early adoption permitted. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Group. IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration IFRIC 22 provides requirements about which exchange rate to use in reporting foreign currency transactions when payment is made or received in advance. The interpretation requires the Company to determine a ‘date of transaction’ for the purposes of selecting an exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income. In case there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the entity should determine a date of the transaction for each flow of advance consideration. IFRIC 22 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier adoption is permitted. The interpretation is not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Group. The IASB has issued other amendments to standards that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group. The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 175 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY (c) Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These judgements and estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements. Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and/or the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are: • Determination of functional currency (note 2 (d)): The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies STRATEGIC REPORT in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates. • Evaluation of the status of projects (note 2 (e)): The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgement. This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs, the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase. These judgements directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced. • Stripping costs (note 2 (e)): The Group incurs waste removal costs (stripping costs) during the development and production phases of its surface mining operations. During the production phase, stripping costs (production stripping costs) can be incurred both in relation to the production of inventory in that period and the creation of improved access and mining flexibility in relation to ore to be mined in the future. The former are included as part of the costs of inventory, while the latter are capitalised as a stripping activity asset, where certain criteria are met. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Once the Group has identified production stripping for a surface mining operation, judgement is required in identifying the separate components of the ore bodies for that operation, to which stripping costs should be allocated. Generally a component is a specific volume of the ore body that is made more accessible by the stripping activity. In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel to analyse each of the mine plans. The mine plans and, therefore, the identification of components, will vary between mines for a number of reasons. These include, but are not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and/or financial considerations. The Group reassesses the components of ore bodies annually in line with the preparation of mine plans. In the current year, this reassessment did not give rise to any changes in the identification of components. Once production stripping costs have been identified, judgement is also required to identify a suitable production measure to be used to allocate production stripping costs between inventory and any stripping activity asset(s) for each component. The Group considers that the ratio of the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped for an expected tonnes of ore to be mined for a specific component FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of the ore body is the most suitable production measure. Furthermore, judgements and estimates are also used to apply the units of production method in determining the depreciable lives of the stripping activity asset(s). • Qualifying assets (note 2 (e)): All interest-bearing loans are held by the parent company and were not obtained for any specific asset’s acquisition, construction, or production. Funds from these loans are transferred to subsidiaries to meet the strategic objectives of the Group or are otherwise held centrally. Due to this financing structure, judgement is required in determining whether those borrowings are attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset. Therefore, management determines whether borrowings are attributable to an asset or group of assets based on whether the investment in an operating or development stage project is classified as contributing to achieving the strategic growth of the Group. • Contingencies (note 26): By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events. 176 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: • Estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources, note 2(e): Ore reserves are estimates of the amount of ore that can be economically and legally extracted from the Group’s mining properties; mineral resources are an identified mineral occurrence with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction. The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by appropriately qualified persons relating to the geological and technical data on the size, depth, shape and grade of the ore body and suitable production techniques and recovery rates, in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee (JORC) code 2012. Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements to interpret the data. The estimation of recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources is based upon factors such as geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size and grade of the ore body, estimates of commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, future capital requirements and production costs. As additional geological information is produced during the operation of a mine, the economic assumptions used and the estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources may change. Such changes may impact the Group’s reported balance sheet and income statement including: –– The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and mining properties may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows, which consider both ore reserves and mineral resources. –– Depreciation and amortisation charges in the income statement may change where such charges are determined using the unit-of-production method based on ore reserves. –– Stripping costs capitalised in the statement of financial position, either as part of mine properties or inventory, or charged to profit or loss may change due to changes in stripping ratios. –– Provisions for mine closure costs may change where changes to the ore reserve and resources estimates affect expectations about when such activities will occur. –– The recognition and carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change due to changes regarding the existence of such assets and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets. • Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes, notes 2 (e) and 12: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets. For depreciation calculated under the unit-ofproduction method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and/or amortisation of mine specific assets. Depreciation/amortisation charge is proportional to the depletion of the estimated remaining life of mine of production. Estimated useful lives of other assets are based on the expected usage of the asset. Each item’s life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to expectations of the use of the asset by the Group, including with reference to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is used. • Silverstream, note 14: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires significant estimation by management. The term of the derivative is based on Sabinas life of mine which is currently 20 years and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows. For further detail on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 30. The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 31. • Assessment of recoverability of property plant and equipment and impairment charges, note 2 (f): The recoverability of an asset requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associated production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance. Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment. • Estimation of the mine closure costs, notes 2 (l) and 21: Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable. These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates. Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided. The provision at the balance sheet date represents management’s best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required. • Income tax, notes 2 (r) and 10: Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 177 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY (d) Foreign currency translation The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Parent Company’s functional currency. The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. For all operating entities, this is US dollars. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined. For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the STRATEGIC REPORT reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in other comprehensive income. On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement. (e) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into working condition for its intended use. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life. Each item’s estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located. Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine CORPORATE GOVERNANCE buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items. Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-ofproduction (UOP) basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process. Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit-of-production calculations, are accounted for prospectively. Depreciation commences when assets are available for use. Land is not depreciated. The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 6 Plant and equipment 4 Mining properties and development costs 1 16 Other assets 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Depreciation of mining properties and development cost are determined using the unit-of-production method. An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising at de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is de-recognised. Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use. Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale. Disposal of assets Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed. Mining properties and development costs Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred. Purchased rights to ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination. Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession. Mine development costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment. Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project. When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained pre-operative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as a mine development cost. 178 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation, the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs. The Group cease the capitalisation of borrowing cost when the physical construction of the asset is complete and is ready for its intended use. Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs. Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit-of-production method based on the estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate. Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value, if any. Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment. On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment. The cost of construction in progress is not depreciated. Subsequent expenditures All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts that are replaced, is de-recognised. All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred. Stripping costs In a surface mine operation, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste material in order to gain access to the ore bodies (stripping activity). During development and pre-production phases, the stripping activity costs are capitalised as part of the initial cost of development and construction of the mine (the stripping activity asset) and charged as depreciation or depletion to cost of sales, in the income statement, based on the mine’s units of production once commercial operations begin. Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a surface mine. At the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the surface mine the activity is referred to as production stripping. Production stripping cost is capitalised only if the following criteria is met: • it is probable that the future economic benefits (improved access to an ore body) associated with the stripping activity will flow to the Group; • the Group can identify the component of an ore body for which access has been improved; and • the costs relating to the improved access to that component can be measured reliably. If not all of the criteria are met, the production stripping costs are charged to the income statement as operating costs as they are incurred. Stripping activity costs associated with such development activities are capitalised into existing mining development assets, as mining properties and development cost, within property, plant and equipment, using a measure that considers the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume, for a given volume of ore production. This measure is known as ‘component stripping ratio’, which is revised annually in accordance with the mine plan. The amount capitalised is subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body related to the stripping activity asset, by using the units of production method. The identification of components and the expected useful lives of those components are evaluated annually. Depreciation is recognised as cost of sales in the income statement. The capitalised stripping activity asset is carried at cost less accumulated depletion/depreciation, less impairment, if any. Cost includes the accumulation of costs directly incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of directly attributable overhead costs. The costs associated with incidental operations are excluded from the cost of the stripping activity asset. In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel for each mining operation to analyse each of the mine plans. Generally, a component will be a subset of the total ore body and a mine may have several components that are identified based on the mine plan. The mine plans and therefore the identification of components can vary between mines for a number of reasons including but not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and/or financial considerations. (f) Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment. If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount. Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level. If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the recoverable amount in the balance sheet. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 179 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY The recoverable amount of an asset The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in an orderly sale transaction between market participants. For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. The Group’s cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Reversal of impairment An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount STRATEGIC REPORT since the impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years. Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement. (g) Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; held to maturity investments; available-for-sale financial assets; or loans and receivables or derivatives designated as hedging instruments, as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings payables or as derivatives CORPORATE GOVERNANCE designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss at inception are included in this category. Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the short term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held-fortrading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39. Financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses arising from changes in fair value, presented as finance costs or finance income in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale. After initial measurement, such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. Gains or losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables. Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost. Loans and receivables from contractors are carried at amortised cost. Loans and borrowings After initial recognition at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. The Group adjusts the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows. The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instrument’s original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate. Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense. This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information, refer to note 20. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments. 180 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market; therefore, a fair value can be reliably measured. After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-tomarket unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is de‑recognised. Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are de-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred. When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense. De-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally de-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement. (h) Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired receivables are de recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible. Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement. In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement. (i) Inventories Finished goods and work in progress inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs. For this purpose, the costs of production include: • personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore; • the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore; and • related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity). Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 181 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value. An allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock. A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such an allowance. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. (j) Short-term investments Where the Group invests in short-term instruments which are either not readily convertible into known amounts of cash or are subject to risk of changes in value that are not insignificant, these instruments are classified as short-term investments. Short-term investments are classified as loans and receivables. (k) Cash and cash equivalents STRATEGIC REPORT For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts. (l) Provisions Mine closure cost A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs (which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas) based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs. The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs. At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates. The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised. If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, the portion of the increase is charged directly as an expense. For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss. (m) Employee benefits The Group operates the following plans: Defined benefit pension plan This funded plan is based on each employee’s earnings and years of service. This plan was open to all employees in Mexico until it was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007. The plan is denominated in Mexican pesos. For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index (NCPI). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an external actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date. The discount rate is the yield on bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss. Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. If the benefits have already vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately. The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly. The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan. Net interest cost is recognised in finance cost and return on plan assets (other than amounts reflected in net interest cost) is recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss. Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due. The contributions are based on the employee’s salary. This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme. Seniority premium for voluntary separation This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service. Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right to a payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service. For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary. 182 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an external actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised as income or expense in the period in which they occur. Other Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies. Termination payments for involuntary retirement (dismissals) are charged to the income statement, when incurred. (n) Employee profit sharing In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing (‘PTU’) equivalent to 10% of the taxable income of each fiscal year. PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries. The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement. PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes. (o) Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a) there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement; b) a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term; c) there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset; or d) there is a substantial change to the asset. Group as a lessee Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are reflected in the income statement. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned. Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a), c) or d) and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b) above. For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4. (p) Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes. Sale of goods Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed. Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes. The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and doré bars are delivered to the customer’s smelter or refinery, using the Group’s best estimate of contained metal. Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed. Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined. In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as doré bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are ‘provisionally priced’ subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract. Doré bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 183 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price. The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract. At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotation period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends. The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges. The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue. The customer deducts treatment and refining charges before settlement. Therefore, the fair value of consideration received for the sale of goods is net of those charges. The Group recognises in selling expenses a levy in respect of the Extraordinary Mining Right as sales of gold and silver are recognised. The Extraordinary Mining Right consists of a 0.5% rate, applicable to the owners of mining titles. The payment must be calculated over the total sales of all mining concessions. The payment of this mining right must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year and can be credited against corporate income tax. STRATEGIC REPORT The Group also recognises in selling expenses a discovery premium royalty equivalent to 1% of the value of the mineral extracted and sold during the year from certain mining titles granted by the Mexican Geological Survey (SGM) in the San Julián mine. The premium is settled to SGM on a quarterly basis. Other income Other income is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed. (q) Exploration expenses Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: • cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life; and • exploration expenses: –– costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves; and –– costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified by project. Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project. (r) Taxation Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the country the Group operates. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: • where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss; and • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: • where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and • in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. 184 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Mining rights The Special Mining Right is considered an income tax under IFRS and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities. The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences arising in the determination of the Special Mining Right (see note 10). Sales tax Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: • when the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable; and • when receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included. The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet. (s) Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodities price which impact its financial and business transactions. Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. The full fair value of a derivative is classified as non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement. Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies (such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value) applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument. The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles, European foreign exchange options are valued using the Black Scholes model. The Silverstream contract is valued using a Net Present Value valuation approach. At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge. The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated. Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. For gains or losses related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk these are included, in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised directly as finance costs, in the income statement of the related period. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in other comprehensive income from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 185 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement. When hedging with options, the Group designates only the intrinsic value movement of the hedging option within the hedge relationship. The time value of the option contracts is therefore excluded from the hedge designation. Changes in fair value of time value is recognised in the income statement in finance costs. Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows. Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives. (t) Borrowing costs STRATEGIC REPORT Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes 12 or more months to get ready for its intended use or sale (a qualifying asset) are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred. Where surplus funds are available for a short term from funds borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from the temporary investment of such amounts is also capitalised and deducted from the total capitalised borrowing cost. Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period. All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. (u) Fair value measurement CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 30 and 31. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: • in the principal market for the asset or liability, or • in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable. Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. Further information on fair values is described in note 30. 186 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued (v) Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Company’s shareholders or Board as appropriate. Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Company’s subsidiaries. 3. Segment reporting For management purposes, the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines. At 31 December 2016, the Group has six reportable operating segments 1 as follows: • the Fresnillo mine, located in the state of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine; • the Saucito mine, located in the state of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine; • the Ciénega mine, located in the state of Durango, an underground gold mine; including the San Ramón satellite mine; • the Herradura mine, located in the state of Sonora, a surface gold mine; • the Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the state of Sonora, a surface gold mine; and • the Noche Buena mine, located in state of Sonora, a surface gold mine. 1. Due to its size in the current year, the operations at San Julián located on the border between the states of Chihuahua and Durango, are reported within Other segments. The operating performance and financial results for each of these mines are reviewed by management. As the Group’s chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information. Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation. Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within Cost of sales and Gross profit which are considered to be outside of the control of the operating management of the mines. The table below provides a reconciliation from segment profit to gross profit as per the consolidated income statement. Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments. Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arm’s length basis similar to transactions with third parties. In 2016 and 2015, substantially all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico. Operating segments The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Group’s operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively: Year ended 31 December 2016 Adjustments SoledadNoche and US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Ciénega Dipolos 4 Saucito Buena Other 5 eliminations Total Revenues: Third party 1 327,957 655,025 169,530 – 459,590 225,374 66,441 1,586 1,905,503 Inter-segment 77,385 (77,385) – Segment revenues 327,957 655,025 169,530 – 459,590 225,374 143,826 (75,799) 1,905,503 Segment profit 2 224,163 369,896 100,105 12,977 363,780 83,852 109,212 (17,854) 1,246,131 Foreign exchange hedging losses (2,770) Depreciation and amortisation (346,502) Employee profit sharing (14,744) Gross profit as per the income statement 882,115 Capital expenditure 3 52,794 78,825 32,745 – 102,398 8,620 158,668 – 434,050 1. Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$141.1 million. 2. Segment profit excluding foreign exchange hedging losses, depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing. 3. Capital expenditure represents the cash outflow in respect of additions to property, plant and equipment, including mine development, construction of leaching pads, purchase of mine equipment and capitalised stripping activity, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision. Significant additions include the construction of second beneficiation plant (Merrill Crowe) at Herradura and the expansion of the flotation plant and the construction of the pyrites plant at Saucito. 4. During 2016, this segment did not operate due to the Bajío conflict (note 26). Segment profit is derived from the changes in the net realisable value allowance against inventory (note 15). 5. Other includes San Julián, the Juanicipio project and inter-segment leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S.A. de C.V. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 187 3. Segment reporting continued FRESNILLO TODAY Year ended 31 December 2015 Adjustments SoledadNoche and US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Ciénega Dipolos 4 Saucito Buena Other 5 eliminations Total Revenues: Third party 1 265,347 459,904 154,334 – 395,417 165,518 3,866 1,444,386 Inter-segment 78,622 (78,622) – Segment revenues 265,347 459,904 154,334 – 395,417 165,518 78,622 (74,756) 1,444,386 Segment profit 2 149,986 219,045 71,094 (7,995) 295,219 26,706 65,925 (14,322) 805,659 Foreign exchange hedging losses (28,589) Depreciation and amortisation (331,209) Employee profit sharing (12,791) Gross profit as per the income STRATEGIC REPORT statement 433,070 Capital expenditure 3 50,610 119,743 24,632 – 108,276 2,649 168,782 – 474,692 1. Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$142.8 million. 2. Segment profit excluding foreign exchange hedging losses, depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing. 3. Capital expenditure represents the cash outflow in respect of additions to property, plant and equipment – including mine development, construction of leaching pads, purchase of mine equipment and stripping activity asset – excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision. Significant additions include construction of finalisation of the dynamic leaching plant and purchase of land at Herradura, construction of employees’ facilities at Ciénega, expansion of the flotation plant at Saucito and the purchase of land at Noche Buena. 4. During 2015 this segment did not operate due to the Bajío conflict (note 26). 5. Other includes San Julián, the Juanicipio project and inter-segment leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S.A. de C.V. The operations of San Julián have been reclassified from the Fresnillo segment to other to align to the presentation in the current year. 4. Revenues Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates doré, slag, and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead and zinc. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (a) Revenues by product sold Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Lead concentrates (containing silver, gold, lead and by-products) 792,770 691,096 Doré and slag (containing gold, silver and by-products) 880,447 626,446 Zinc concentrates (containing zinc, silver and by-products) 120,889 81,184 Precipitates (containing gold and silver) 111,397 45,660 1,905,503 1,444,386 Substantially all lead concentrates, precipitates, doré and slag, were sold to Peñoles’ metallurgical complex, Met-Mex, for smelting and refining. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (b) Value of metal content in products sold For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer. The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silver 724,024 617,434 Gold 1,133,067 828,476 Zinc 106,461 73,018 Lead 83,070 68,277 Value of metal content in products sold 2,046,622 1,587,205 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges (141,119) (142,819) Total revenues 1 1,905,503 1,444,386 1. Include provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives resulting in a gain of US$2.2 million (2015: gain of US$2.3 million) and hedging gain of US$1.6 million (2015: gain of US$3.9 million). For further detail, refer to note 2(p). The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ per ounce US$ per ounce Gold 2 1,246.5 1,126.5 Silver 2 17.2 15.6 2. Reported revenue does not include the results of hedging. 188 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5. Cost of sales Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Depreciation and amortisation (notes 2 (e) and 12) 346,502 331,209 Personnel expenses (note 7) 80,360 80,567 Maintenance and repairs 90,650 94,837 Operating materials 131,786 135,059 Energy 117,995 117,908 Contractors 174,167 175,898 Freight 7,921 9,821 Insurance 4,990 5,042 Mining concession rights and contributions 10,347 10,853 Other 14,721 15,211 Cost of production 979,439 976,405 Losses on foreign currency hedges 2,770 28,589 Change in work in progress and finished goods (ore inventories) 61,488 1,309 Change in net realisable value allowance against inventory (note 15) (20,309) 5,013 1,023,388 1,011,316 6. Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Contractors 88,822 105,161 Administrative services 6,243 6,907 Mining concession rights and contributions 14,027 15,684 Personnel expenses (note 7) 5,521 5,748 Assays 2,982 2,788 Maintenance and repairs 329 384 Operating materials 449 416 Rentals 1,524 1,874 Energy 407 454 Other 878 830 121,182 140,246 These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in areas of the Fresnillo, Herradura, La Ciénega, Saucito and San Julián mines, the San Ramón satellite mine and Orysivo, Rodeo, Guanajuato and Centauro Deep projects. In addition, exploration expenses of US$7.9 million (2015: US$8.4 million) were incurred in the year on projects located in Peru. The following table sets forth liabilities (generally trade payables) incurred in the exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Liabilities related to exploration activities 1,643 917 Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by the Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities. Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Operating cash out flows related to exploration activities 120,457 142,874 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 189 7. Personnel expenses FRESNILLO TODAY Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Employees’ profit sharing 15,145 12,791 Salaries and wages 36,296 36,544 Bonuses 10,233 10,713 Legal contributions 12,979 12,644 Other benefits 8,035 8,084 Vacations and vacations bonus 1,634 2,464 Social security 4,459 5,310 Post-employment benefits 1 3,567 4,572 Other 8,686 8,262 101,034 101,384 STRATEGIC REPORT 1. Post-employment benefits include US$1.5 million associated to benefits corresponding to the defined contribution plan (2015: US$1.6 million). (a) Personnel expenses are reflected in the following line items: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cost of sales (note 5) 80,360 80,567 Administrative expenses 15,153 15,069 Exploration expenses (note 6) 5,521 5,748 101,034 101,384 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (b) The monthly average number of employees during the year was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 No. No. Mining 1,881 1,812 Plant concentration 550 552 Exploration 454 519 Maintenance 894 755 Administration and other 791 725 Total 4,570 4,362 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8. Other operating income and expenses Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other income: Rentals 3 166 Selling of scrap 610 5 Other 785 607 1,398 778 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other expenses: Maintenance 1 926 1,098 Donations 317 714 Environmental activities 1,005 4,022 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1,103 3,757 Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets – 2,896 Engineering and design studies – 974 Consumption tax expensed 940 635 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 3,005 – Other 3,146 2,554 10,442 16,650 1. Costs relating to Compañía Minera las Torres, S.A. de C.V. 190 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9. Finance income and finance costs Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance income: Interest on short-term deposits and investments 4,542 1,779 Fair value movement on derivatives 1 – 61,224 Other 2,416 2,835 6,958 65,838 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance costs: Interest on interest-bearing loans 29,006 35,969 Fair value movement on derivatives 1 40,294 – Unwinding of discount on provisions 10,476 8,586 Other 547 908 80,323 45,463 1. Principally relates to the time value associated with gold commodity options see note 30 for further detail. 10. Income tax expense a) Major components of income tax expense: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated income statement: Corporate income tax Current: Income tax charge 167,873 118,410 Amounts over provided in previous years 1 (1,646) (29,093) 166,227 89,317 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 53,581 31,373 Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 40,058 8,316 93,639 39,689 Corporate income tax 259,866 129,006 Special mining right Current: Special mining right charge 2 24,502 6,384 24,502 6,384 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 8,910 7,574 Special mining right 33,412 13,958 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 293,278 142,964 1. During 2015, the Group clarified the treatment applied in the computation of the 2014 tax provision regarding the deduction of certain mining-related expenditures. This resulted in an adjustment of US$29.9 million to the 2015 current tax expense with an equal and opposite effect to the deferred tax expense. 2. The Special Mining Right ‘SMR’ allows the deduction of payments of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable within the same legal entity. During the fiscal year ended 31 December 2016, the Group credited US$12.4 million (2015: US$8.2 million) of mining concession rights against the SMR. Total mining concessions rights paid during the year were US$15.4 million (2015: US$17 million) and have been recognised in the income statement within cost of sales and exploration expenses. Mining concessions rights paid in excess of the SMR cannot be credited to SMR in future fiscal periods, and therefore no deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to the excess. Without regards to credits permitted under the SMR regime, the current special mining right charge would have been US$36.9 million (2015: US$14.6 million). Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 191 10. Income tax expense continued FRESNILLO TODAY Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax credit/(charge) related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income: Losses on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement (355) (7,927) Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 15,875 (11,856) Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (13,418) 3,522 Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans (388) 361 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 1,714 (15,900) (b) Reconciliation of the income tax expense at the Group’s statutory income rate to income tax expense at the Group’s effective STRATEGIC REPORT income tax rate: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accounting profit before income tax 718,240 212,354 Tax at the Group’s statutory corporate income tax rate 30.0% 215,472 63,706 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,016 2,983 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities (8,933) (2,626) Current income tax (over)/underprovided in previous years (1,303) (1,142) Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities 1 90,035 77,473 Non-taxable/Non-deductible foreign exchange losses (2,157) (5,437) Inflationary uplift of tax losses (2,891) (3,250) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IEPS tax credit (note 10 (e)) (24,020) – Deferred tax asset not recognised 3,360 3,025 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax (10,024) (4,187) Other (1,689) (1,539) Corporate income tax at the effective tax rate of 36.2% (2015: 60.7%) 259,866 129,006 Special mining right 33,412 13,958 Tax at the effective income tax rate of 40.8% (2015: 67.3%) 293,278 142,964 1. Mainly derived from the tax value of property, plant and equipment. (c) Movements in deferred income tax liabilities and assets: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net liability (342,195) (279,046) Income statement charge arising on corporate income tax (93,639) (39,689) Income statement charge arising on special mining right (8,910) (7,574) Exchange difference 3 14 Net credit/(charge) related to items directly charged to other comprehensive income 1,714 (15,900) Closing net liability (443,027) (342,195) 192 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10. Income tax expense continued The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016 and 2015, considering the nature of the related temporary differences, are as follows: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Related party receivables (199,181) (124,719) 72,799 (23,393) Other receivables (3,725) (469) 3,256 (2,245) Inventories 163,113 121,668 (43,868) 21,602 Prepayments (1,803) (830) (10,727) (17,551) Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract (134,984) (137,396) 4,469 44,468 Property, plant and equipment arising from corporate income tax (351,325) (330,939) 36,358 38,313 Operating liabilities 24,303 19,871 4,083 35,674 Other payables and provisions 44,733 58,643 13,910 (12,502) Losses carried forward 66,343 88,593 22,250 (37,857) Post-employment benefits 1,685 2,049 364 (98) Deductible profit sharing 3,905 3,740 (226) (312) Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 29,100 21,065 (8,034) (1,965) Available-for-sale financial assets (14,175) (756) 13,419 (4,391) Other (3,581) (4,192) (14,414) (365) Net deferred tax liability related to corporate income tax (375,592) (283,672) – – Deferred tax credit related to corporate income tax – – 93,639 39,378 Related party receivables arising from special mining right (18,764) (15,207) 3,557 (1,571) Inventories arising from special mining right 8,274 9,616 1,341 2,280 Property plant and equipment arising from special mining right (56,945) (52,932) 4,012 6,865 Net deferred tax liability (443,027) (342,195) – – Deferred tax credit – – 102,549 46,952 Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: Deferred tax assets 20,023 30,814 – – Deferred tax liabilities-continuing operations (463,050) (373,009) – – Net deferred tax liability (443,027) (342,195) – – Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority. On the basis of management’s internal forecast, a deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$221.1 million (2015: US$295.3 million). If not unutilised, US$10.7 million will expire within five years and US$210.4 million will expire between six and ten years. The Group has further tax losses and other similar attributes carried forward of US$29.1 million (2015: US$23.0 million) on which no deferred tax is recognised due to insufficient certainty regarding the availability of appropriate future taxable profits. (d) Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,949 million (2015: US$1,449 million). (e) Corporate Income Tax (‘Impuesto Sobre la Renta’ or ‘ISR’) and Special Mining Right (‘SMR’) The Group’s principal operating subsidiaries are Mexican residents for taxation purposes. The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%. During 2016 the Mexican Internal Revenue Law granted to taxpayers a credit in respect of an excise tax (Special Tax on Production and Services, or IEPS for its acronym in Spanish) paid when purchasing diesel used for general machinery and certain mining vehicles. The credit can be applied against either the Company’s own corporate income tax or the income tax withheld from third parties. The credit is calculated on an entity-by-entity basis and expires one year after the purchase of the diesel. In the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group applied a credit of US$19.1 in respect of the year and recognised a deferred tax asset of US$4.8 in respect of the IEPS incurred in 2016 and expected to be applied during 2017. As the IEPS deduction is itself taxable, the deferred tax asset is recognised at 70% of the IEPS carried forward. The net amount applied by the Group is presented in the reconciliation of the effective tax rate in note 10 (b). The SMR is considered as income tax under IFRS, and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities. The SMR allows as a credit the payment of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable The 7.5% tax apply to a base of income before interest, annual inflation adjustment, taxes paid on the regular activity, depreciation and amortisation, as defined by the new ISR. This SMR can be credited against the corporate income tax of the same fiscal year and its payment must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 193 11. Earnings per share FRESNILLO TODAY Earnings per share (‘EPS’) is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period. The Company has no dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. As of 31 December 2016 and 2015, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 426,986 70,523 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 333,516 51,119 STRATEGIC REPORT Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$133.5 million gain (US$93.5 million net of tax) (2015: US$27.7 million loss (US$19.4 million net of tax)). Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument. 2016 2015 thousands thousands Number of shares: Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 736,894 736,894 2016 2015 US$ US$ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Earnings per share: Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.579 0.096 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 0.453 0.069 12. Property, plant and equipment Year ended 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Mining properties Land and Plant and and development Construction in buildings Equipment costs Other assets Progress Total Cost At 1 January 2015 153,346 1,343,062 1,094,124 179,031 432,319 3,201,882 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Additions 2,432 10,518 33,236 36,290 442,384 524,860 Disposals (518) (23,028) (11,493) (1,555) – (36,594) Transfers and other movements 17,941 117,387 173,539 4,213 (313,080) – At 31 December 2015 173,201 1,447,939 1,289,406 217,979 561,623 3,690,148 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2015 (60,988) (551,707) (558,883) (60,886) – (1,232,464) Depreciation for the year 1 (13,347) (188,647) (129,586) (13,693) – (345,273) Disposals 165 14,592 10,052 1,368 – 26,177 At 31 December 2015 (74,170) (725,762) (678,417) (73,211) – (1,551,560) Net Book amount at 31 December 2015 99,031 722,177 610,989 144,768 561,623 2,138,588 1. Depreciation for the year includes US$346.5 million (2015: US$331.2 million) recognised as an expense in the cost of sales in the income statement and US$14.8 million (2015: US$14 million), capitalised as part of construction in progress. 194 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12. Property, plant and equipment continued Year ended 31 December 2016 US$ thousands Mining properties Land and Plant and and development Construction in buildings Equipment costs Other assets Progress Total Cost At 1 January 2016 173,201 1,447,939 1,289,406 217,979 561,623 3,690,148 Additions 459 11,423 4,168 (50,304) 441,649 407,395 Disposals – (12,409) (4,206) (161) – (16,776) Transfers and other movements 70,315 188,633 218,648 26,391 (503,987) – At 31 December 2016 243,975 1,635,586 1,508,016 193,905 499,285 4,080,767 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 (74,170) (725,762) (678,417) (73,211) – (1,551,560) Depreciation for the year 1 (16,412) (177,744) (148,223) (18,961) – (361,340) Write-off of property, plant and equipment (4) (2,909) – (92) – (3,005) Disposals – 11,048 4,206 101 – 15,355 At 31 December 2016 (90,586) (895,367) (822,434) (92,163) – (1,900,550) Net Book amount at 31 December 2016 153,389 740,219 685,582 101,742 499,285 2,180,217 The table below details construction in progress by operating mine Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 45,197 2,312 Herradura 37,740 36,868 Noche Buena 15,985 3,354 Ciénega 17,348 13,280 Fresnillo 32,703 7,109 San Julián 270,154 431,864 Other 80,158 66,836 499,285 561,623 During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group capitalised US$18.2 million of borrowing costs within construction in progress (2015: US$11.1). Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 5.78% (2015: 5.78%). Sensitivity analysis As at 31 December 2016 and 2015, the carrying amount of mining assets was fully supported by the higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD) computation of their recoverable amount. Value in use and FVLCD was determined based on the net present value of the future estimated cash flows expected to be generated from the continued use of the CGUs. For both valuation approaches management used price assumptions of US$1,250/ounce and US$18/ounce (2015: US$1,200/ounce and US$18/ounce) for gold and silver, respectively. Management considers that the models supporting the carrying amounts are most sensitive to commodity price assumptions and have therefore performed a sensitivity analysis for those CGUs, where a reasonable possible change in prices could lead to impairment. As at 31 December 2016 the carrying amount of the Herradura mine is US$624.6 million, the Noche Buena mine is US$88.1 million (2015: Herradura mine US$654.2 million and Noche Buena mine US$118.8 million) and the San Julián mine US$559.2 which commenced commercial production in the third quarter of 2016. The following table sets out the approximate expected impairment that would be recognised in 2016 and 2015 at hypothetical decreases in commodity prices: Decrease in commodity prices Herradura Noche Buena San Julián Year ended 31 December Gold Silver US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 Low sensitivity 10% 10% – – – High sensitivity 15% 20% 109,603 – 84,310 2015 Low sensitivity 5% 10% – – – High sensitivity 10% 20% 131,625 4,738 – Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 195 13. Available-for-sale financial assets FRESNILLO TODAY Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 71,442 86,078 Fair value change 44,729 (14,636) Ending balance 116,171 71,442 In 2016 no impairment has arisen based on the investment in quoted shares. During 2015, several investments in quoted shares decreased below the cost paid by the Group therefore an impairment of US$2.9 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement. The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market. STRATEGIC REPORT 14. Silverstream contract On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peñoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peñoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine (‘Sabinas’), a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peñoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million. In addition, a per ounce cash payment of $2.00 in years one to five and $5.00 thereafter (subject to an inflationary adjustment commencing on 31 December 2013) is payable to Peñoles. The cash payment per ounce for the year ended 31 December 2016 was $5.15 per ounce (2015: $5.10 per ounce). Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peñoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver. If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peñoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall. The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at fair value and classified within noncurrent and current assets as appropriate. Changes in the contract’s fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement. In the year ended 31 December CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2016 total proceeds received in cash were US$47.5 million (2015: US$39.4 million) of which, US$2.8 million was in respect of proceeds receivable as at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$6.9 million). Cash received in respect of the year of US$44.8 million (2015: US$32.5 million) corresponds to 3.8 million ounces of payable silver (2015: 3.6 million ounces). As at 31 December 2016, a further US$5.9 million (2015: US$2.8 million) of cash corresponding to 538,756 ounces of silver is due (2015: 317,521 ounces). The US$133.5 million unrealised gain recorded in the income statement (2015: US$27.7 million gain) resulted from the updating of assumptions used to value the Silverstream contract. The most significant of these were the increase in the Sabinas mine silver reserves and resources, the unwinding of the discount and the difference between the payments already received in 2016 and payments estimated in the valuation model as of 31 December 2015. A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: 2016 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 384,771 392,276 Cash received in respect of the year (44,796) (32,456) Cash receivable (5,974) (2,769) Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 133,528 27,720 Balance at 31 December 467,529 384,771 Less – Current portion 28,718 26,607 Non-current portion 438,811 358,164 See note 30 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 31 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset. 196 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15. Inventories As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finished goods 1 5,736 1,711 Work in progress 2 189,047 251,900 Ore stockpile 3 18,253 – Operating materials and spare parts 70,348 73,104 283,384 326,715 Accumulated write-down of work in progress inventory 4 (2,269) (22,578) Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories (4,265) (3,562) Balance as 31 December at lower of cost and net realisable value 276,850 300,575 Less – Current portion 187,499 224,200 Non-current portion 5 89,351 76,375 1. Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and doré bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery. 2. Work in progress includes metals contained in ores on leaching pads. 3. Ore stockpile includes ore mineral obtained during the development phase at San Julián. 4. Corresponds to ore inventory of the Soledad-Dipolos mine resulting from net realisable value calculations (31 December 2015: Corresponds to ore inventory at Noche Buena and Soledad-Dipolos). 5. The non-current inventories are expected to be processed more than 12 months from the reporting date. Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and/or refineries. Doré is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries. This content once processed by the smelter and refinery is sold to customers in the form of refined products. The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$1,042.4 million (2015: US$1,001.0 million). The adjustment to the net realisable value allowance against work-in-progress inventory decreased US$20.3 million during the year (2015: US$5.0 million increase). The adjustment to the allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventory recognised as an expense was US$0.7 million (2015: US$0.9 million). 16. Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade and other receivables from related parties (note 27) 1 189,619 115,805 Value Added Tax receivable 70,426 99,948 Advances and other receivable from contractors 14,651 13,641 Other receivables from related parties (note 27) 5,973 2,769 Loans granted to contractors 1,401 2,595 Other receivables arising on the sale of fixed assets 386 759 Other receivables 4,693 2,775 287,149 238,292 Provision for impairment of ‘other receivables’ (471) (300) Trade and other receivables classified as current assets 286,678 237,992 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Loans granted to contractors 990 2,289 990 2,289 287,668 240,281 1. Trade receivables from related parties’ includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$(2.8) million as at 31 December 2016 (2015: US$(0.5) million). Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days. Loans granted to contractors bear interest of between LIBOR plus 1.5% to LIBOR plus 3% and mature over two years. The total receivables denominated in US$ were US$206.8 million (2015: US$127 million), and in pesos US$80.9 million (2015: US$113.3 million). As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of ‘other receivables’ in the table above, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired. The amount past due and considered as impaired as of 31 December 2016 is US$0.5 million (2015: US$0.3 million). In determining the recoverability of receivables, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty, see note 31 (b). Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 197 17. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments FRESNILLO TODAY The Group considers cash and cash equivalents and short term investments when planning its operations and in order to achieve its treasury objectives. As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 2,592 4,104 Short-term deposits 709,362 377,316 Cash and cash equivalents 711,954 381,420 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value. STRATEGIC REPORT As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Short-term investments 200,000 118,718 Short-term investments are made for fixed periods no longer than four months and earn interest at fixed rates without an option for early withdrawal. As at 31 December 2016 short-term investments are held in fixed-term bank deposits of US$200,000 (31 December 2015: US$118,718). 18. Equity Share capital and share premium Authorised share capital of the Company is as follows: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As at 31 December 2016 2015 Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary Shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of £1.00 50,000 £50,000 50,000 £50,000 Issued share capital of the Company is as follows: Ordinary Shares Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares Number US$ Number £ At 1 January 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2016 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 As at 31 December 2016 and 2015, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid. The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association. Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares. Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferable. Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value. Capital reserve The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method. Hedging reserve This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax. When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement or the value of other assets. 198 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18. Equity continued Available-for-sale financial assets reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax. On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement. Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group. Retained earnings/accumulated losses This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid. 19. Dividends declared and paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2016 Final dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 1 3.3 24,686 Interim dividend for 2016 declared and paid during the year 2 8.6 63,373 11.9 88,059 Year ended 31 December 2015 Final dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year 3 3.0 22,107 Interim dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 4 2.1 15,475 5.1 37,582 1. This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 May 2016 and paid on 9 May 2016. 2. This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2016 and paid on 9 September 2016. 3. This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015. 4. This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 August 2015 and paid on 10 September 2015. 20. Interest-bearing loans Senior Notes On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of US$800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 (the ‘notes’). Movements in the year in the debt recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 797,032 796,160 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 Interest paid 1 (46,267) (46,267) Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 995 872 Closing balance 798,027 797,032 1. Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November. The Group has the following restrictions derived from the issuance of the Senior notes (the Notes): Change of control: Should the rating of the Senior Notes be downgraded as a result of a change of control (defined as the sale or transfer of 35% or more of the common shares; the transfer of all or substantially all the assets of the Group; starting a dissolution or liquidation process; or the loss of the majority in the Board of Directors) the Group is obligated to repurchase the notes at an equivalent price of 101% of their nominal value plus the interest earned at the repurchase date, if requested to do so by any creditor. Pledge on assets: The Group shall not pledge or allow a pledge on any property that may have a material impact on business performance (key assets). Nevertheless, the Group may pledge the aforementioned properties provided that the repayment of the Notes keeps the same level of priority as the pledge on those assets. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 199 21. Provision for mine closure cost FRESNILLO TODAY The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletion of mine deposits. The discount rate used in the calculation of the provision as at 31 December 2016 is in a range of 6.61% to 7.74% (2015: range of 4.65% to 7.13%). Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, reclamation alternatives, timing and the discount, foreign exchange and inflation rates applied. Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions. It is the Group’s intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense. The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines. The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, based on the reserves and resources, which ranges from 3 to 27 years from 31 December 2016 (4 to 21 years from 31 December 2015). As at 31 December 2016 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 195,476 153,802 Increase to existing provision (21,745) 48,680 Effect of changes in discount rate (13,570) 7,341 Unwinding of discount 10,476 8,586 Payments (472) – Foreign exchange (21,056) (22,933) Closing balance 149,109 195,476 22. Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The Group has a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit plan. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The defined contribution plan was established as from 1 July 2007 and consists of periodic contributions made by each non-unionised worker and contributions made by the Group to the fund matching workers’ contributions, capped at 8% of the employee’s annual salary. The defined benefit plan provides pension benefits based on each worker’s earnings and years of services provided by personnel hired through 30 June 2007 as well as statutory seniority premiums for both unionised and non-unionised workers. The overall investment policy and strategy for the Group’s defined benefit plan is guided by the objective of achieving an investment return which, together with contributions, ensures that there will be sufficient assets to pay pension benefits and statutory seniority premiums for non-unionised workers as they fall due while also mitigating the various risks of the plan. However, the portion of the plan related to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers is not funded. The investment strategies for the plan are generally managed under local laws and regulations. The actual asset allocation is determined by current and expected economic and market conditions and in consideration of specific asset class risk in the risk profile. Within this framework, the Group ensures that the trustees consider how the asset investment strategy correlates with the maturity profile of the plan liabilities and the respective potential impact on the funded FINANCIAL STATEMENTS status of the plan, including potential short-term liquidity requirements. Death and disability benefits are covered through insurance policies. 200 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22. Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans continued The following tables provide information relating to changes in the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets: Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains/(losses) in OCI US$ thousands Return on plan assets Actuarial Actuarial (excluding changes changes Defined amounts arising from arising from benefit Balance at Sub-total included changes in changes in Sub-total increase due Balance at 1 January Net Foreign recognised Benefits in net demographic financial Experience Foreign included Contributions to personnel 31 December 2016 Service cost interest exchange in the year paid interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange in OCI by employer transfer 2016 Defined benefit obligation (32,165) (649) (1,803) 5,573 3,121 816 – (744) 2,636 1,103 – 2,995 – (144) (25,377) Fair value of plan assets 17,631 – 927 (3,003) (2,076) (432) (552) – – – – (552) 1,570 141 16,282 Net benefit liability (14,534) (649) (876) 2,570 1,045 384 (552) (744) 2,636 1,103 – 2,443 1,570 (3) (9,095) Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains/(losses) in OCI US$ thousands Return on plan assets Actuarial Actuarial (excluding changes changes Defined amounts arising from arising from benefit Balance at Sub-total included changes in changes in Sub-total increase due Balance at 1 January Net Foreign recognised Benefits in net demographic financial Experience Foreign included Contributions to personnel 31 December 2015 Service cost interest exchange in the year paid interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange in OCI by employer transfer 2015 Defined benefit obligation (33,664) (1,024) (1,981) 5,085 2,080 1,031 – (577) (1,160) 170 – (1,567) – (45) (32,165) Fair value of plan assets 19,826 – 1,121 (2,954) (1,833) (758) (706) – – – – (706) 1,065 37 17,631 Net benefit liability (13,838) (1,024) (860) 2,131 247 273 (706) (577) (1,160) 170 – (2,273) 1,065 (8) (14,534) Of the total defined benefit obligation, US$6.7 million (2015: US$8.6 million) relates to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers which are not funded. The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period are nil. The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Group’s plans are shown below: As at 31 December 2016 2015 % % Discount rate 7.52 6.79 Future salary increases (NCPI) 5.0 5.0 The mortality assumptions are that for current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 22.3 and 25.5 years respectively (2015: 20.2 years for men and 23.4 for women). The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12.1 years (2015: 11.7 years). The fair values of the plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Government debt 746 1,084 State-owned companies 3,914 3,017 Mutual funds (fixed rates) 11,622 13,530 16,282 17,631 The pension plan has not invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 201 22. Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans continued FRESNILLO TODAY A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 December 2016 is as shown below: Life expectancy Assumptions Discount rate Future salary increases (NCPI) of pensioners 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% +1 Sensitivity Level Increase Decrease increase decrease Increase (Decrease)/Increase to the net defined benefit obligation (US$ thousands) (1,352) 1,491 552 239 186 The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on net defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The pension plan is not sensitive to future changes in salaries other than in respect of inflation. 23. Trade and other payables STRATEGIC REPORT As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade payables 68,216 53,303 Other payables to related parties (note 27) 3,173 4,137 Accrued expenses 16,797 15,988 Other taxes and contributions 33,447 16,202 121,633 89,630 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services. These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted. The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 31. 24. Commitments A summary of capital expenditure commitments by operating mine is as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 32,933 29,131 Herradura 29,544 13,897 Noche Buena 3,677 285 Ciénega 6,454 7,685 Fresnillo 12,079 6,181 San Julián 39,895 86,301 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other 1 20,133 2,029 144,715 145,509 1. Other includes commitments from Minera Bermejal, S. de R.L. de C.V. and Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V. (2015: Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V.) 25. Operating leases (a) Operating leases as lessor Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 1,095 1,984 After one year but not more than five years 1,875 487 2,970 2,471 202 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25. Operating leases continued (b) Operating leases as lessee The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment. These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee with future lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal. There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases. The Group has put in place several arrangements to finance mine equipment through loans and the sale of mine equipment to contractors. In both cases, contractors are obligated to use these assets in rendering services to the Group as part of the mining work contract, during the term of financing or credit, which ranges from two to six years. The Group considers that the related mining work contracts contain embedded operating leases. The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 6,790 2,720 After one year but not more than five years 3,399 3,115 10,189 5,835 As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 4,142 8,008 26. Contingencies As of 31 December 2016, the Group has the following contingencies: • The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties. • Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest. Under certain circumstances, the reviews may cover longer periods. In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest. It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome. However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable. During 2015 the Mexican tax authorities (SAT) commenced a tax audit at Minera Penmont relating to the fiscal years 2012 and 2013. The Group considers that it has provided all documentation required to demonstrate that all non-taxable income and tax deductions taken over these years are appropriate. SAT is currently evaluating the information provided by the Company. The Company has formally filed a writ before the Mexican Taxpayers Ombudsman (PRODECON per its acronym in Spanish) in order to request a conclusive agreement in this matter. • On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peñoles entered into the Separation Agreement (the ‘Separation Agreement’). This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peñoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 (‘Admission’). The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peñoles so that, in the case of Peñoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities (including tax liabilities) properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peñoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business. Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate. • Peñoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to: (i) any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation (including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peñoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peñoles Group on or after Admission), the Global Offer or Admission, and (ii) certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions. Peñoles’ liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million. If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peñoles’ tax consolidation pays an intra-Group dividend in excess of its net income tax account (‘Cuenta de Utilidad Fiscal Neta’ o ‘CUFIN’) account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peñoles an amount in respect of that tax. • On 30 November 2012, the Mexican government enacted a new federal labour law. During 2014 management implemented certain actions as a part of an ongoing process in order to manage the exposure resulting from the issuance of the new labour law including any potential impacts on the operations and financial position of the Group, however management does not expect any potential contingency or significant effect on the Group’s financial statements as at 31 December 2016 and going forward. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 203 26. Contingencies continued FRESNILLO TODAY • In regard to the ejido El Bajío matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajío agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont (‘Penmont’), submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court (Tribunal Unitario Agrario) of Hermosillo, Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land. The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of the Soledad-Dipolos mine are located. The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land. The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos. The Agrarian Magistrate noted in 2013 that certain remediation activities were necessary and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency (SEMARNAT) in this respect. The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmont’s occupation. In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order was excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian STRATEGIC REPORT ruling and also because the procedural order appeared not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits. In December 2016, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued a subsequent procedural order in which the Court recognised that Penmont complied with the agrarian ruling by having returned the land in dispute and, furthermore, that remediation activities are to be conducted in accordance with Federal environmental guidelines and regulations, as supervised by the competent Federal authorities. Remediation activities in this respect are pending as the agrarian members have not yet permitted Penmont physical access to the lands. Penmont has already presented a conceptual mine closure and remediation plan before the Unitarian Agrarian Court in respect of the approximately 300 hectares where Penmont conducted mining activities. The agrarian community Ejido El Bajío has appealed this procedural order from December 2016 and the final result of the appeal is pending. In connection with the foregoing matters, and as previously reported by the Company in prior years, members of the El Bajío agrarian community presented a separate claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, alleging US$65 million in damages as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmont’s mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajío lands. In April 2016, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued a final and definitive ruling on the matter rejecting the claim, which is consistent with the Company’s view, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE as previously reported, that this lawsuit had no merit. In addition, and as also previously reported by the Company, claimants in the El Bajío matter presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above. Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont. As previously reported, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued rulings declaring such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmont’s occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area. Given that Penmont has not conducted significant mining operations or has specific geological interest in these land parcels, any contingency relating to such land parcels is not considered material by the Company. The case relating to the claims over these land parcels remains subject to finalisation. Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajío matter. There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27. Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 and balances as at 31 December 2016 and 2015. Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, as well as those who have a minority participation in Group companies and key management personnel of the Group. (a) Related party balances Accounts receivable Accounts payable As at 31 December As at 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade: Metalúrgica Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 189,584 115,786 301 130 Other: Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. 5,974 2,769 – – Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. – – 1,612 366 Servicios Especializados Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. – – 36 1,804 Fuerza Eólica del Istmo S.A. de C.V. – – – 916 Other 34 19 1,224 921 Sub-total 195,592 118,574 3,173 4,137 Less-current portion 195,592 118,574 3,173 4,137 Non-current portion – – – – Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash. 204 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27. Related party balances and transactions continued Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silverstream contract: Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. 467,529 384,771 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash. Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 14. (b) Principal transactions with affiliates, including Industrias Peñoles S.A.B de C.V., the Company’s Parent, are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: Sales: 1 Metalúrgica Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 1,905,503 1,458,413 Other income 2,381 982 Total income 1,907,884 1,459,395 1. Figures do not include hedging gains as the derivative transactions are not undertaken with related parties. Figures are net of the adjustment for treatment and refining charges of US$141.1 million (2015: US$142.48 million) and include sales credited to development projects of US$1.6 million (2015: US$17.9 million). Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services 2: Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 3 24,309 23,655 Servicios Especializados Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 16,015 17,701 40,324 41,356 Energy: Termoelectrica Peñoles, S. de R.L. de C.V. 16,011 20,332 Fuerza Eólica del Istmo S.A. de C.V. 1,794 6,713 17,805 27,045 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 5,254 6,368 Metalúrgica Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 3,140 3,320 8,394 9,688 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S.A. de C.V. 8,268 3,860 Property, plant and equipment: Equipos Industriales Naica, S.A. de C.V. – 1,065 Insurance premiums: Grupo Nacional Provincial, S.A. B. de C.V. 7,155 8,382 Other expenses: 2,085 2,693 Total expenses 84,031 94,089 2. Includes US$4.7 million (2015: US$4.1 million) corresponding to expenses reimbursed. 3. Includes US$9.5 million (2015: US$8.2 million) relating to engineering costs that were capitalised. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 205 27. Related party balances and transactions continued FRESNILLO TODAY (c) Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee who receive remuneration. Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Salaries and bonuses 2,416 3,311 Post-employment benefits 208 257 Other benefits 345 379 Total compensation paid in respect of key management personnel 2,969 3,947 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT US$ thousands US$ thousands Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 4,237 4,859 This compensation includes amounts paid to directors disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen. There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services. 28. Auditor’s remuneration Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Class of services US$ thousands US$ thousands Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the Group’s annual accounts 1,149 1,274 Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services as follows: The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 222 338 Audit-related assurance services 350 328 Tax compliance services 21 24 Tax advisory services – 16 Other assurance services – – Total 1,742 1,980 29. Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 2015 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 424,962 69,390 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 5 346,502 331,209 Employee profit sharing 7 15,145 13,170 Deferred income tax 10 102,549 47,263 Current income tax expense 10 190,729 95,701 Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 8 1,103 3,757 Other losses 981 3,353 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 3,005 – Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 8 – 2,896 Net finance costs 33,019 41,913 Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (539) 18,991 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (944) (314) Non-cash movement on derivatives 40,345 (62,288) Changes in fair value of Silverstream 14 (133,528) (27,720) Working capital adjustments (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (39,526) 58,219 Decrease in prepayments and other assets 113 891 Decrease in inventories 23,725 5,037 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 5,133 (12,820) Cash generated from operations 1,012,774 588,648 Income tax paid (102,255) (34,517) Employee profit sharing paid (12,561) (11,237) Net cash from operating activities 897,958 542,894 206 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30. Financial instruments (a) Fair value category As at 31 December 2016 US$ thousands Available-forAt fair value At fair value sale investments through OCI through profit at fair value Loans and (cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedges) Trade and other receivables 1 (note 16) – – 213,750 – Available-for-sale financial assets (note 13) – 116,171 – – Silverstream contract (note 14) 467,529 – – – Derivative financial instruments (note 30) 145 – – 23,005 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised (cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss Cost hedges) Interest-bearing loans (note 20) – 798,027 – Trade and other payables (note 23) – 70,442 – Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 1 (note 4) 2,750 – – Derivative financial instruments (note 30) – – 646 1. Trade and other receivables and embedded derivative within sales contracts are presented net in Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet. As at 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Available-forAt fair value At fair value sale investments through OCI through profit at fair value Loans and (cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedges) Trade and other receivables 1 (note 16) – – 127,224 – Available-for-sale financial assets (note 13) – 71,442 – – Silverstream contract (note 14) 384,771 – – – Derivative financial instruments (note 30) 1 – – 117,074 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit or At amortised (cash flow Financial liabilities: loss Cost hedges) Interest-bearing loans (note 20) – 797,032 – Trade and other payables (note 23) – 97,440 – Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 1 (note 4) 532 – – Derivative financial instruments (note 30) – – 1,427 1. Trade and other receivables and embedded derivative within sales contracts are presented net in Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet. (b) Fair value measurement The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets 116,171 71,442 116,171 71,442 Silverstream contract (note 14) 467,529 384,771 467,529 384,771 Derivative financial instruments 23,150 117,075 23,150 117,075 Financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans 1 (note 20) 798,027 797,032 840,904 805,352 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 2,750 532 2,750 532 Derivative financial instruments 646 1,427 646 1,427 1. Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 207 30. Financial instruments continued FRESNILLO TODAY The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2016 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts – 23,005 – 23,005 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts – 145 – 145 Silverstream contract – – 467,529 467,529 – 23,150 467,529 490,679 STRATEGIC REPORT Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 116,171 – – 116,171 116,171 23,150 467,529 606,850 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts – – 2,750 2,750 Options commodity contracts – 66 – 66 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts – 580 – 580 – 646 2,750 3,396 As of 31 December 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts – 116,995 – 116,995 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 80 – 80 Silverstream contract – – 384,771 384,771 – 117,075 384,771 501,846 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 71,442 – – 71,442 71,442 117,075 384,771 573,288 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts – – 532 532 Options commodity contracts – – – – Options and forward foreign exchange contracts – 1,427 – 1,427 – 1,427 532 1,959 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. A reconciliation of the opening balance to the closing balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream (which is disclosed in note 14) is shown below: 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: (532) (2,911) Changes in fair value (1,718) (11,511) Realised embedded derivatives during the year (500) 13,890 Balance at 31 December (2,750) (532) The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. 208 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30. Financial instruments continued The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The foreign currency forward (Level 2) contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies. The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency. Option commodity contracts The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The option commodity (Level 2) contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities. The option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity. Silverstream contract The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model including unobservable inputs (Level 3). This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and/or the duration of the contract. Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican peso and US dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows. The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined. The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time. Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peñoles, the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine and provided to the Company. The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peñoles. The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years. Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs described above, and determines their impact on the total fair value. The significant unobservable inputs are not interrelated. The fair value of the Silverstream is not significantly sensitive to a reasonable change in future exchange rates, however, it is to a reasonable change in future silver price, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows. For further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note 14. The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate is disclosed in note 31. Quoted investments: Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets (Level 1). Interest-bearing loans Fair value of the Group’s interest-bearing loan, is derived from quoted market prices in active markets (Level 1). Embedded derivatives within sales contracts: Sales of concentrates, precipitates and doré bars are ‘provisionally priced’ and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Group’s best estimate of the contained metal. Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery (see note 2 (p)). This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and is separated from the sales contract. At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the relevant sales contract. The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non-observable input to this valuation (Level 3). At 31 December 2016 the fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts was US$(2.7) million (2015: US$(0.5) million). The revaluation effects of embedded derivatives arising from these sales contracts are recorded as an adjustment to revenues. (c) Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred in Mexican pesos and other currencies. The Group also enters into option contracts to manage its exposure to commodity price risk as described in note 2 (s). Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 209 30. Financial instruments continued FRESNILLO TODAY The following tables summarise the fair value of derivative financial instruments held as of 31 December 2016 and 2015. As at 31 December 2016 2015 Financial assets US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 145 1 Swedish krona – 1 Option contracts 1: US dollar – 78 Commodity contracts Option contracts 1: Gold 23,005 113,000 STRATEGIC REPORT Lead – 1,060 Zinc – 2,935 Total derivative related assets 23,150 117,075 Less – Current portion 6,618 19,602 Non-current portion 2 16,532 97,473 As at 31 December 2016 2015 Financial liabilities US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 570 – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Canadian dollar 10 – Option contracts 1: US dollar – 1,427 Commodity contracts Option contracts 1: Gold 16 – Lead 2 – Zinc 48 – Total derivative related liabilities 646 1,427 Less – Current portion 630 1,427 Non-current portion 2 16 – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Option contracts operate as zero cost collars. 2. Non-current portion corresponds to Gold option contracts that mature in a period over one year from the reporting date until 30 December 2019. The following table summarises the movements in deferred gains or losses on foreign exchange and price commodity derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting, net of tax effects, recorded in other comprehensive income for the year: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 36,214 (9,946) Gains recycled to revenue during the year (1,586) (2,167) Losses recycled to cost of sales during the year 2,770 28,589 Unrealised (losses)/gains before tax arising during the year (52,918) 39,521 Deferred tax effect recorded in other comprehensive income during the year 15,520 (19,783) Ending balance – 36,214 210 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31. Financial risk management Overview The Group’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale financial assets, interest-bearing loans and trade payables. The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: • Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks • Credit risk • Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. (a) Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Group’s income or the value of its financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. Foreign currency risk The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican peso, euro and Swedish krona which are exposed to foreign currency risk. Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar include the purchase of services, fixed assets, spare parts and the payment of dividends. As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso. In order to manage the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates from 2017 (see note 30 for additional detail). The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Group’s profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods for the purposes of calculating the sensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments. Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Strengthening/ increase/ increase/ (weakening) (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 15% 78 – (10%) (67) – 2015 10% (4,235) 7,809 (10%) 5,192 (2,213) Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 211 31. Financial risk management continued FRESNILLO TODAY The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona on the Group’s profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 10% (63) (10%) 94 2015 5% 213 (10%) (78) STRATEGIC REPORT The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the euro on the Group’s profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Strengthening/ increase/ increase/ (weakening) (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 5% 459 – (10%) (1,024) – 2015 10% – – (10%) – – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Foreign currency risk – Silverstream Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 15% (1,436) (10%) 1,223 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 10% (1,622) (10%) 1,982 Commodity risk The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices (specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc) which have a significant effect on the Group’s results. These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles. The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge against an element of gold price. The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in gold and silver prices, reflecting the impact on the Group’s profit before tax with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity shown in the table below relates to changes in fair value of commodity derivatives financial instruments contracts and embedded derivatives in sales. Increase/(decrease) in commodity prices Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: increase/ increase/ (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 10% 25% 40% 40% (28,516) – (15%) (20%) (30%) (15%) (36,031) 120,715 2015 15% 20% 25% 20% (51,326) 50,764 (10%) (15%) (25%) (15%) 52,915 136,469 212 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31. Financial risk management continued Commodity price risk – Silverstream Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Increase/ increase/ (decrease) in (decrease) Year ended 31 December silver price US$ thousands 2016 25% 157,406 (20%) (125,925) 2015 20% 104,659 (15%) (78,494) Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and the Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date. Interestbearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount. Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date. There is no impact on the Group’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase/ increase/ (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2016 65 5,943 (20) (1,829) 2015 50 2,525 (10) (505) The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end. Interest rate risk – Silverstream Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase/ increase/ (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2016 65 (35,908) (20) 12,051 2015 50 (17,853) (10) 3,729 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 213 31. Financial risk management continued FRESNILLO TODAY Inflation rate risk Inflation rate risk-Silverstream Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit Basis point before tax: (increase/ increase/ (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December in inflation rate US$ thousands 2016 100 190 (100) (188) 2015 100 389 STRATEGIC REPORT (100) (382) Equity price risk The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale financial assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Group’s profit before tax and equity: Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Increase/ increase/ increase/ (decrease) (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December in equity price (US$ thousands) US$ thousands 2016 100% – 116,171 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (50%) – (58,086) 2015 50% – 35,721 (30%) (5,135) (16,297) (b) Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Group’s ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments. The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, the Silverstream contract and available-for-sale financial assets. The Group’s policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties’ failure to honour their obligations. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counter party. The Group’s financial assets are with FINANCIAL STATEMENTS counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating. As disclosed in note 27, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties. At each balance sheet date, the Group’s financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than ‘Other receivables’ as disclosed in note 16. The Group’s policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts. The Company’s foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings. The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty Met-Mex Peñoles, the Group’s primary customer throughout 2016 and 2015. A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract. Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peñoles group which currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be of appropriate credit rating. The Group’s surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V., which manages cash and cash equivalents, including short-term investments investing in a number of financial institutions. Accordingly, on an ongoing basis the Group deposits surplus funds with a range of financial institutions, depending on market conditions. In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits surplus funds with financial institutions with a credit rating of MX-1 (Moody’s) and mxA-1+ (Standard and Poor’s) and above. As at 31 December 2016, the Group had concentrations of credit risk as 24% of surplus funds were deposited with one financial institution of which 47% was held in short-term Mexican government paper. The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes. See note 13 for the maximum credit exposure to available-for-sale financial assets, note 17 for short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents and note 27 for related party balances with Met-Mex. The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31 December 2016, being US$467.5 million (2015: US$384.8 million). 214 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31. Financial risk management continued (c) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. US$ thousands Within 1 year 2–3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Interest-bearing loans (note 20) 46,267 92,534 92,534 892,534 1,123,869 Trade and other payables 71,389 – – – 71,389 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 630 16 – – 646 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts – liability 2,750 – – – 2,750 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing loans (note 20) 46,267 92,534 92,534 938,801 1,170,137 Trade and other payables 57,440 – – – 57,440 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 342,108 730,303 317,359 – 1,389,770 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts – liability 532 – – – 532 The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows. However, those amounts may be settled gross or net. The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Inflows 10,932 – – – 10,932 Outflows (11,229) – – – (11,229) Net (297) – – – (297) US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Inflows 347,301 746,924 319,165 – 1,413,390 Outflows (342,108) (730,303) (317,359) – (1,389,770) Net 5,193 16,621 1,806 – 23,620 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to be exercised during 2017 as at 31 December 2016 and from 2016 to 2019 as at 31 December 2015, either by the Group or counterparty. Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities. Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value. Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, including loans from related parties, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains or losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-for-sale financial assets. In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholder’s capital invested in the Group management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable. The Group’s dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows, including cash flows from the Silverstream. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 215 Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December FRESNILLO TODAY 2016 2015 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Profit/(Loss) for the year 3 997,088 (894,822) Other comprehensive income/(expense) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 7 44,729 (14,636) Income tax effect 5 (13,418) 4,391 Impairment of available for sale financial assets taken to income during the year – 2,896 Income tax effect 5 – (869) Net effect of available-for-sale financial assets 31,311 (8,218) Net other comprehensive income/(expense) that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 31,311 (8,218) STRATEGIC REPORT Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax 1,028,399 (903,040) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 216 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Parent Company Balance Sheet As at 31 December As at 31 December As at 1 January 2016 2015 Restated 2015 Restated Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands ASSETS Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 5 6,957,858 5,943,889 6,873,015 Available-for-sale financial assets 6 116,171 71,442 86,078 Derivative financial instruments 17 16,532 97,473 – Deferred tax asset 4 9,691 – 3,138 7,100,252 6,112,804 6,962,231 Current assets Loans to related parties 14 480,508 706,989 772,102 Income tax recoverable 906 7,909 16,037 Trade and other receivables 7 484 3,766 12,507 Derivative financial instruments 17 6,618 19,602 14,551 Cash and cash equivalents 8 287,736 110,217 116,023 776,252 848,483 931,220 Total assets 7,876,504 6,961,287 7,893,451 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the Company Share capital 9 368,546 368,546 368,546 Share premium 9 1,153,817 1,153,817 1,153,817 Merger reserve 9 5,250,357 4,252,442 5,197,726 Available-for-sale financial assets reserve 9 40,725 9,414 17,632 Retained earnings 9 247,665 336,551 323,671 Total equity 7,061,110 6,120,770 7,061,392 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans 11 798,027 797,032 796,160 Derivative financial instruments 17 16 – – Deferred tax liability 4 – 20,490 – 798,043 817,522 796,160 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 12 16,721 21,568 8,866 Derivative financial instruments 17 630 1,427 27,033 17,351 22,995 35,899 Total liabilities 815,394 840,517 832,059 Total equity and liabilities 7,876,504 6,961,287 7,893,451 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by: The profit for the Company is US$997.1 million for the year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: loss of US$894.8 million). In accordance with the exemption granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate income statement for the Company has not been presented. Mr Arturo Fernandez Non-executive Director 27 February 2017 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 217 Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December FRESNILLO TODAY 2016 2015 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Net cash from operating activities 16 (34,665) 7,916 Cash flows from investing activities Capital contribution to subsidiaries (20,582) (16,158) Capital reimbursement from subsidiaries 4,528 – Loans granted to related parties (1,713,084) (1,841,293) Proceeds from repayment of loans granted to related parties 1,937,610 1,904,794 Interest received 33,240 22,138 Dividends received 108,889 – Settlement of derivative contracts 1,637 3,133 Other payments (5,457) (1,584) Net cash generated from investing activities 346,781 71,030 STRATEGIC REPORT Cash flows from financing activities Loans granted by related parties – 67,000 Repayment of loans granted by related parties – (67,000) Dividends paid (88,219) (37,529) Interest paid (46,267) (47,607) Net cash used in financing activities (134,486) (85,136) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year 177,630 (6,190) Effect of exchange rate on cash and equivalents (111) 384 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 110,217 116,023 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 8 287,736 110,217 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 218 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity Year ended 31 December US$ thousands Available-for-sale Share Share Merger financial assets Retained Total Notes capital premium reserve reserve earnings equity Balance at 1 January 2015 (restated) 2(b) 368,546 1,153,817 5,197,726 17,632 323,671 7,061,392 Loss for the year – – – – (894,822) (894,822) Other comprehensive expense net of tax – – – (8,218) – (8,218) Total comprehensive loss for the year – – – (8,218) (894,822) (903,040) Transfer of reserves – – (945,284) – 945,284 – Dividends declared and paid 10 – – – – (37,582) (37,582) Balance at 31 December 2015 368,546 1,153,817 4,252,442 9,414 336,551 6,120,770 Profit for the year – – – – 997,088 997,088 Other comprehensive income net of tax – – – 31,311 – 31,311 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 31,311 997,088 1,028,399 Transfer of reserves – – 997,915 – (997,915) – Dividends declared and paid 10 – – – – (88,059) (88,059) Balance at 31 December 2016 368,546 1,153,817 5,250,357 40,725 247,665 7,061,110 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 219 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1. Corporate information FRESNILLO TODAY Fresnillo plc (‘the Company’) is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 5. The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes with tax residency in Mexico City. For further information see note 4. Industrias Peñoles S.A.B. de C.V. (‘Peñoles’) currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillères family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peñoles. The country of incorporation of Peñoles is Mexico. Copies of Peñoles’ accounts can be obtained from www.penoles.com.mx. The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies. See note 5. The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 27 February 2017. STRATEGIC REPORT 2. Significant accounting policies (a) Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial instruments which have been measured at fair value. The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America (US dollars or US$) and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand (US$000) except when otherwise indicated. The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below. These accounting policies CORPORATE GOVERNANCE have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated. (b) Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. Restatements As at 31 December 2015, derivatives relating to the gold hedging programme initiated in 2014 that mature after one year had been presented as current assets. During 2016, the Company restated the prior year comparatives and reclassified these derivatives to non-current assets. The reclassification resulted in an increase in non-current assets and a corresponding reduction in current assets by US$97.5 million as at 31 December 2015, with no impact on previously reported profit, other comprehensive income, liabilities, equity or cash flow. In addition, there is no tax effect. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the current year, the Company identified that a reversal of a previously recognised impairment loss on its investment in Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V., amounting to US$142.9 million which existed at 31 December 2014 had not been recognised. During 2016, the Company restated the prior year comparatives to recognise this reversal. This adjustment resulted in an increase in both non-current assets and equity by US$142.9 million as at 1 January 2015, with no impact in liabilities or the previously reported profit, other comprehensive income or cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2015. In addition, there is no tax effect. New standards, interpretations and amendments (new standards) adopted by the Company During 2016 there were no new standards adopted by the Company. New standards issued by the IASB effective as of 1 January 2016 had no impact in the financial information of the Company. Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Company’s financial statements are disclosed below. The Company intends to adopt these standards that are applicable to the Company’s financial statements, when they become effective. 220 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which concludes all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9. IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. The Company plans to adopt IFRS 9 Financial instruments from the mandatory effective date. The Company’s assessment of the expected major impacts of this standard is set out below. Nature of change IFRS 9 addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets. The derecognition rules are consistent with those under IAS 39. Main impact IFRS 9 makes significant changes in the classification of financial assets. Whereas under IAS 39, the default classification for financial assets was available-for-sale financial assets, under IFRS 9 the residual category is to recognise fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). Generally under IFRS 9, investments in equity instruments are recognised as FVTPL unless the Group makes an election, in respect of investments that are not held for trading, to measure the instruments at fair value through OCI (FVOCI). The Group expects to designate all investments currently recognised in available-for-sale financial assets as FVOCI. In accordance with IFRS 9, this means that all movements relating to such assets are recognised in OCI. Neither gains nor losses on disposal or significant or prolonged declines in the value of these investments are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment model The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses (ECL) rather than on the basis of credit losses incurred as is the case under IAS 39. It will apply to Company’s financial assets classified at amortised cost and debt instruments measured at FVOCI. IFRS 9 also sets out a simplified approach for traded and lease receivables that do not contain a significant financing component in accordance with IFRS 15. Expected date of The Company plans to adopt IFRS 9 effective 1 January 2018 and plans to apply the limited exemption relating adoption by Company to transition for classification and measurement and impairment, and accordingly will not restate comparative and considerations periods in the year of initial application. The Company does not currently expect the impact of adopting IFRS 9 to be material to the standalone financial information. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS. Early adoption is permitted. IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. The Company plans to adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from the mandatory effective date. The Company has completed a preliminary assessment of the expected major impacts of this standard, the most relevant one set out below. Nature of change IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for recognition of revenue from contracts with customers based on a core principle that an entity should recognise revenue representing the transfer of promised goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Main impact As described in the accounting policies section, The Company’s revenue is derived from one revenue stream that corresponds to trademark royalties. The Company has evaluated recognition and measurement of revenue based on the five-step model in IFRS 15 and has not identified any material expected financial impacts. IFRS 15 includes disclosure requirements to enable users of the financial statements to understand the amount, timing, risk and judgements related to revenue recognition and related cash flows. Certain disclosures will change as a result of the requirements of IFRS 15, however the Company does not expect major changes as revenue is derived from one revenue stream an all the transactions are carried out with related parties. Expected date of The Company plans to adopt IFRS 15 effective 1 January 2018 and to apply the simplified transition method, adoption by Company hence the cumulative effect of adoption, if any, will be recognised in retained earnings. The Company currently and considerations expects the cumulative effect to be nil. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 221 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, earlier application is permitted. However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early application is restricted to entities that also early apply IFRS 15. The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and is considering early adoption in 2018 to align with the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative The amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes. The amendments do not prescribe a specific format to disclose financing activities; however, an entity may fulfil the disclosure objective by providing reconciliation between STRATEGIC REPORT the opening and closing balances in the statement of financial position for liabilities arising from financing activities. The amendments apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with earlier application permitted. Entities are not required to present comparative information for earlier periods. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Company. Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the asset’s tax base. They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early adoption permitted. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Company. IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IFRIC 22 provides requirements about which exchange rate to use in reporting foreign currency transactions when payment is made or received in advance. The interpretation requires the Company to determine a ‘date of transaction’ for the purposes of selecting an exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income. In case there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the entity should determine a date of the transaction for each flow of advance consideration. IFRIC 22 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier adoption is permitted. The interpretation is not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Company. The IASB has issued other amendments to standards, including those resulting from improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective. (c) Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The preparation of the Company’s financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. These judgements and estimates are based on management’s knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements. Information about such judgements and estimates is in the accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements. Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: • Determination of functional currency (note 2 (d)): The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates. • Contingencies (note 13): By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events. 222 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty made by management in preparing the financial information statements include: • Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets (note 2 (g) and 6): The Company classifies certain financial asset as available-for-sale and recognises movements in their fair value in equity. When the fair value declines, management makes an assessment of the decline in value to determine whether it is an impairment that should be recognised in profit or loss. • Impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries (notes 2 (e) and 5): The Company assesses investments in subsidiaries annually to determine whether any indication of impairment exists. Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD) and the value in use. Due to the nature of the subsidiaries, the assessment of the recoverable amount is generally determined based on the net present value of future cash flows related to the subsidiaries requiring the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associate production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance. These cash flows are discounted using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The determination of that rate requires certain judgements. Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, the Company assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of that investment, requiring similar estimates and assumptions as those for determining an impairment charge. At 31 December 2016 the Company reversed impairment losses of US$997.9 million (2015: US$nil) to recognise a cumulative impairment relating to subsidiaries of US$506.2 million (2015: US$1,537.2 million). (d) Foreign currency translation The Company’s financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company. The functional currency for the Company is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Nonmonetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair valued is determined. (e) Investments in subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities which the Company due to it being exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment. Impairment charges and reversals, up to the value of the merger reserve, are reclassified from retained earnings to the merger reserve. When the Company increases its capital investment in or where there is a return of share capital from its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised as an addition to, or return of the original cost recognised in investment in subsidiaries. At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment. Where an indicator of impairment exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use. The Company usually determines fair value based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries. If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount. Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made. An impairment loss is reversed to profit or loss to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed that that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 223 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY (f) Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held to maturity investments; or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The Company recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred. Financial assets are offset with liabilities and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to STRATEGIC REPORT set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value transactions through profit and loss at inception are included in this category. Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments, as defined by IAS 39. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables. Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost. Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. The Company adjusts the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows. The carrying amount FINANCIAL STATEMENTS is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instrument’s original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate. Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense. This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans. For more information refer note 11. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held-to-maturity investments. Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market; therefore a fair value can be reliably measured. After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses being recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is derecognised. Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are de-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred. When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense. 224 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued De-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally de-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement. (g) Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Company first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Company will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible. Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement. In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Company considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement. (h) Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 225 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY (i) Share capital Ordinary Shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue. The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue. (j) Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes. Trademark royalties Trademark royalty income is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received. Interest income STRATEGIC REPORT Interest income is recognised as interest accrues (using the effective interest method; i.e. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset). Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive the payment is established. (k) Income tax Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: • where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss; and • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and • in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. 226 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued (l) Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Company enters into derivative contracts in order to manage certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodity prices which impact the financial and business transactions of its subsidiaries. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. In the Group’s consolidated financial statements certain of these derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Company’s stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges. Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement. Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies (such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value) applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument. The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Company first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows. Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives. (m) Fair value measurement The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 17 and 18. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: • in the principal market for the asset or liability, or • in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Company. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable. Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. Further information on fair values is described in note 17. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 227 2. Significant accounting policies continued FRESNILLO TODAY (n) Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Mexican Income Tax Law establishes a 10% tax rate on earnings from 2014 and thereafter, for dividends paid to foreign residents and Mexican individuals. Dividends paid are not subject to income tax if paid from the Net Tax Profit Account (CUFIN). Dividends paid that exceed CUFIN are subject to an income tax payable at a rate of 30% if paid in 2017. The tax is payable by the Company and may be credited against the normal income tax payable by the Company in the year in which the dividends are paid or in the following two years. Dividends paid from earnings previously taxed are not subject to any withholding or additional tax payment. 3. Segment reporting STRATEGIC REPORT Segmental information is not presented in the Company’s stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 4. Income tax (a) Income tax reported in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Deferred income tax (charge)/credit related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income: Change in fair value on available-for-sale financial assets (note 6) (13,418) 3,522 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income (13,418) 3,522 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (b) The movements in the deferred income tax liability are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net (liability)/asset (20,490) 3,138 Income statement credit/(charge) 43,599 (27,150) Net (charge)/credit arising on change in fair value on available-for-sale assets (note 6) (13,418) 3,522 Closing net asset/(liability) 9,691 (20,490) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities. The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December considering the nature of the temporary FINANCIAL STATEMENTS differences are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Prepayments and other assets (1,152) (363) Derivative financial instruments (7,660) (41,255) Losses carried forward 32,678 21,884 Available-for-sale financial assets (14,175) (756) Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 9,691 (20,490) (c) Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Company has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,949 million (2015: US$1,450 million). (d) Corporate Income Tax (‘Impuesto Sobre la Renta’ or ‘ISR’) The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes. The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%. 228 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 5. Investments in subsidiaries Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 restated US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 5,943,889 6,873,015 Impairment – (945,284) Reversal of impairment 997,915 – Additions 20,582 16,158 Return of share capital (4,528) – Closing balance1 6,957,858 5,943,889 1. The El Bajío land dispute could have an impact on the Company’s investment in Minera Penmont (Soledad-Dipolos mine unit) (note 13). As described in note 2 (b), the balance at 1 January 2015 has been restated. During 2016 the Company has identified the recovery of gold and silver prices as an indicator of reversal of previously recognised impairment losses on its investments in subsidiaries. The Company has calculated the recoverable amount of its investments in subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016 and as a result has recognised a reversal of previously recognised impairment loss amounting to US$997,915. The recoverable amount was estimated based on the Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCD) model (2015: FVLCD). The following tables provide relevant information in respect of each impaired subsidiary: Year ended 31 December 2016 Current year Impairment Cumulative Recoverable reversal Impairment amount US$ thousands US$ thousand US$ thousands Discount rate Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. (608,736) 94,747 4,208,200 Post-tax 5.38% Minera Mexicana la Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. (109,979) 360,791 570,338 Post-tax 5.28% Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. (141,738) – 1,451,845 Post-tax 5.34% Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V. (137,462) – 810,877 Post-tax 5.28% Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. – 83,705 138,628 Post-tax 6.06% (997,915) 506,257 In determining FVLCD it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate future cash flows including reserves and resources volumes and related production profile, price assumptions, cost estimates and discount rate. Accordingly, the fair value is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The price assumptions used to determine FVLCD are based on analysts’ consensus of long-term prices. As at 31 December 2016, the Company used price assumptions of US$1,250/ounce and US$18/ounce for gold and silver, respectively. Year ended 31 December 2015 Current year Cumulative Recoverable Impairment Impairment amount US$ thousand US$ thousand US$ thousand Discount rate Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 703,483 703,483 3,561,388 Post-tax 6.21% Minera Mexicana la Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. – 470,770 481,878 Post-tax 6.09% Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. 104,339 141,738 1,133,900 Post-tax 6.02% Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V. 137,462 137,462 671,488 Post-tax 6.02% Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. – 83,705 139,400 Post-tax 6.43% 945,284 1,537,158 As at 31 December 2015 management calculated the recoverable amount using FVLCD methodology. Management considers that the model supporting the determination of FVLCD is most sensitive to commodity price assumptions. The price assumptions used to determine FVLCD are based on analysts’ consensus of long-term prices. As at 31 December 2015, the Company used price assumptions of US$1,200/ounce and US$18/ounce for gold and silver, respectively. Sensitivity analysis As at 31 December 2016 Management has performed a sensitivity analysis for those subsidiaries where cumulative impairment may be affected by a significant decrease in silver and gold prices. Management has considered a decrease in silver of 20% and 15% for gold (2015: 20% and 10%, respectively). The sensitivity resulted in an additional impairment on Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. of US$622.3 million (2015: US$1,335.8 million) and Minera Mexicana la Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. US$85.7 million (2015; US$ nil). Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 229 5. Investments in subsidiaries continued FRESNILLO TODAY The subsidiaries in which investments are directly held as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Country of Equity interest % Legal company Principal activity incorporation Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Production of lead/silver and zinc concentrates Mexico4 100 100 Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V.1 Production of doré bars (gold/silver) Mexico4 56 56 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates and Mexico4 100 100 silver precipitates Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates Mexico4 100 100 Desarrollos Mineros Canelas, S.A. de C.V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico4 100 100 Desarrollos Mineros Fresne, S. de R.L. de C.V.1 Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico4 56 56 Desarrollos Mineros el Aguila, S.A. de C.V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico4 100 100 Metalúrgica Reyna, S.A. de C.V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico4 100 100 STRATEGIC REPORT Equipos Mineros Nazas, S.A. de C.V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico4 100 100 Proveedora de Equipos Fresne, S de R.L. de C.V.1 Leasing of mining equipment Mexico4 56 56 Equipos Mineros la Hacienda, S.A. de C.V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico4 100 100 Proveedora de Equipos Jerez, S.A. de C.V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico4 100 100 Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V. Mining project Mexico4 56 56 Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Holds rights over silver production from Mexico4 100 100 Peñoles’ polymetallic Sabinas mine through the Silverstream contract Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. Exploration services Mexico4 100 100 Exploraciones y Desarrollos Mineros Coneto, Exploration services Mexico4 55 55 S.A. P. I. de C.V. Exploraciones Coneto, S.A. de C.V.2 Exploration services Mexico4 – 100 Minera El Bermejal, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mining equipment leasing Mexico4 100 100 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compañía Minera Las Torres, S.A. de C.V. Mine project Mexico4 100 100 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Administrative services Mexico4 100 100 Operaciones Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Administrative services Mexico4 100 100 Servicios de Exploración Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Administrative services Mexico4 100 100 Fresnillo Management Services, Ltd Administrative services UK5 100 100 Fresbal Investments, Ltd Holding company for mining Investments Canada6 100 100 Fresnillo Peru, S.A.C. Exploration services Peru7 100 100 Fresnillo Chile, SpA Exploration services Chile8 100 – Caja de Ahorros Fresnillo, S.C.3 Administrative services Mexico4 – – The list of subsidiary undertakings presented in this note represents the full list of subsidiary undertakings, required to be submitted by Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. The remaining 44% interest in these companies are held by Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. 2. Effective 1 July 2016, the Company merged Exploraciones Coneto, S.A. de C.V. into Exploraciones y Desarrollos Mineros Coneto S.A.P.I. de C.V. There was no change in the equity interest in Coneto as a result of the merger. 3. Whilst Fresnillo plc holds no direct ownership in Caja de Ahorros Fresnillo, S.C. the entire share capital of the company is held through its subsidiaries. 4. The registered address for all Mexican subsidiaries is: Calzada Saltillo 400 No. 989, Torreón, Coahuila 27250. 5. Registered address: Second Floor, 21 Upper Brook Street, London W1. 6. Registered address: 355 Burrard Street, Suite 1800, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2G8. 7. Registered address: Avenida República de Colombia 643, Piso 9, Distrito San Isidro, Lima 27. 8. Registered address: Av. Apoquindo 4775 oficina 1002 – Las Condes, Santiago de Chile. 6. Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 71,442 86,078 Fair value change 44,729 (14,636) Ending balance 116,171 71,442 At 31 December 2016, no impairment has been recorded based on the valuation of the investment in quoted shares. During 2015, several investments in quoted shares decreased below the cost paid by the Company therefore an impairment of US$2.9 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement. The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market. 230 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 7. Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other receivables from related parties (note 14) 480 3,764 Other 4 2 484 3,766 As of 31 December for each year presented, other receivables from related parties were neither past due nor impaired. In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty. 8. Cash and cash equivalents Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 24 16 Short-term deposits 287,712 110,201 Cash and cash equivalents 287,736 110,217 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value. 9. Equity Share capital and share premium As at 31 December 2016 2015 Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary Shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of £1.00 50,000 £50,000 50,000 £50,000 Issued share capital of the Company is as follows: Ordinary Shares Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares Number US$ Number £ At 1 January 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2016 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 As at 31 December 2016 and 2015, all issued shares with a par value of $0.50 each are fully paid. The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association. Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to ordinary shareholders. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares. Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary shares are not transferable. Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value. Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets acquired as part of the Pre-IPO reorganisation and the nominal value of the shares issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Movements in this reserve during 2016 and 2015 represent the impairment losses and reversals of the carrying value of Fresnillo’s investments in subsidiaries transferred from retained earnings. Available-for-sale financial assets reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax. On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement. Retained earnings This reserve records the accumulated results of the Company, less any distributions and dividends paid. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 231 10. Dividends declared and paid FRESNILLO TODAY The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2016 Final dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year1 3.3 24,686 Interim dividend for 2016 declared and paid during the year2 8.6 63,373 11.9 88,059 Year ended 31 December 2015 Final dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year3 3.0 22,107 Interim dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year4 2.1 15,475 5.1 37,582 STRATEGIC REPORT 1. This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 May 2016 and paid on 9 May 2016. 2. This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2016 and paid on 9 September 2016. 3. This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015. 4. This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 August 2015 and paid on 10 September 2015. 11. Interest-bearing loans Senior Notes On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of an aggregate principal amount of US$800 million of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 (the ‘notes’). An analysis of the debt recognised in the balance sheet is as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 797,032 796,160 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 Interest paid1 (46,267) (46,267) Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 995 872 Closing balance 798,027 797,032 1. Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November. The Group has the following restrictions derived from the issuance of the senior notes (the Notes): Change of control: Should the rating of the senior notes be downgraded as a result of a change of control (defined as the sale or transfer of 35% or more of the common shares; the transfer of all or substantially all the assets of the Group; starting a dissolution or liquidation process; or the loss FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of the majority in the Board of Directors) the Group is obligated to repurchase the notes at an equivalent price of 101% of their nominal value plus the interest earned at the repurchase date, if requested to do so by any creditor. Pledge on assets: The Group shall not pledge or allow a pledge on any property that may have a material impact on business performance (key assets). Nevertheless, the Group may pledge the aforementioned properties provided that the repayment of the Notes keeps the same level of priority as the pledge on those assets. 12. Trade and other payables Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other payables to related parties (note 14) 7,400 16,819 Other taxes and contributions 8,561 3,768 Accrued expenses 760 981 16,721 21,568 The fair value of trade and other payables approximates their book values. The Company’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 18. 232 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 13. Contingencies As of 31 December 2016 the Company has the following contingencies: • The Company is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties. • Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate income tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest. Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods. In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest. It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome. However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Company has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable. • On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peñoles entered into the Separation Agreement (the ‘Separation Agreement’). This agreement relates to the separation of the Fresnillo Group (‘the Group’) and the Peñoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 (‘Admission’). The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peñoles so that, in the case of Peñoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities (including tax liabilities) properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peñoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business. Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate. • Peñoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to: (i) any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation (including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peñoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peñoles Group on or after Admission), the Global Offer or Admission, and (ii) certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions. Peñoles’ liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million. If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peñoles’ tax consolidation pays an intra-Group dividend in excess of its net income tax account (‘Cuenta de Utilidad Fiscal Neta’ or ‘CUFIN’) account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peñoles an amount in respect of that tax. • In regard to the ejido El Bajío matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajío agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont (‘Penmont’), submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court (Tribunal Unitario Agrario) of Hermosillo, Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land. The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of the Soledad-Dipolos mine are located. The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land. The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos. The Agrarian Magistrate noted in 2013 that certain remediation activities were necessary and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency (SEMARNAT) in this respect. The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmont’s occupation. In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order was excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appeared not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits. In December 2016, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued a subsequent procedural order in which the Court recognised that Penmont complied with the agrarian ruling by having returned the land in dispute and, furthermore, that remediation activities are to be conducted in accordance with Federal environmental guidelines and regulations, as supervised by the competent Federal authorities. Remediation activities in this respect are pending as the agrarian members have not yet permitted Penmont physical access to the lands. Penmont has already presented a conceptual mine closure and remediation plan before the Unitarian Agrarian Court in respect of the approximately 300 hectares where Penmont conducted mining activities. The agrarian community Ejido El Bajío has appealed this procedural order from December 2016 and the final result of the appeal is pending. In connection with the foregoing matters, and as previously reported by the Company in prior years, members of the El Bajío agrarian community presented a separate claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, alleging US$65 million in damages as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmont’s mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajío lands. In April 2016, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued a final and definitive ruling on the matter rejecting the claim, which is consistent with the Company’s view, as previously reported, that this lawsuit had no merit. In addition, and as also previously reported by the Company, claimants in the El Bajío matter presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above. Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont. As previously reported, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued rulings declaring such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmont’s occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area. Given that Penmont has not conducted significant mining operations or has specific geological interest in these land parcels, any contingency relating to such land parcels is not considered material by the Company. The case relating to the claims over these land parcels remains subject to finalisation. Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajío matter. There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 233 14. Related party balances and transactions FRESNILLO TODAY Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party and include the Company’s subsidiaries disclosed in note 5, as well as those entities who have a minority participation in Fresnillo Group companies. Related party balances will be settled in cash. All the balances as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 and the transactions carried-out with related parties for the years then ended correspond to subsidiaries. (a) Related party accounts receivable and payable Accounts receivable Accounts payable US$ thousands US$ thousands 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 Loans with related parties 480,508 706,989 – – Administrative services – – 808 7,963 Trademark royalty – 3,717 6,592 8,855 STRATEGIC REPORT Other 480 47 – 1 Sub-total 480,988 710,753 7,400 16,819 Less-current portion 480,988 710,753 7,400 16,819 Non-current portion – – – – Effective interest rates on loans granted to related parties in US dollar range between 2.73% to 7.60% (2015: 2.3% to 2.41%); in Mexican peso range 5.31% to 5.34% (2015: 5.31% to 5.34%). (b) Principal transactions with related parties (apart from dividends, additional investments and returns of capital) are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Income: Trademark royalties 55,171 34,679 Interest on loans to related parties 32,834 21,824 Other 363 – Total income 88,368 56,503 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services 4,550 9,399 Interest on loans from related parties – 1,339 Reimbursement of expenses 4,518 – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other – 455 Total expenses 9,068 11,193 (c) Compensation of key management personnel of the Company Key management personnel comprise Non-executive Directors. In 2016, their compensation was US$0.6 million (2015: US$0.7 million). This compensation paid is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 15. Auditor’s remuneration The auditor’s remuneration for the Company was US$1.1 million (2015: US$1.1 million) in respect of the audit of its financial statements together with a proportion of the fees in relation to Fresnillo Group audit. Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the stand alone financial statements because Group financial statements are prepared which include these fees on a consolidated basis. 234 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 16. Notes to the statement of cash flows Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit/(loss) for the year 997,088 (894,822) Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Impairment (reversal)/loss 5 (997,915) 945,284 Dividends income (108,889) – Income tax expense (43,599) 27,150 Other expenses 5,468 1,584 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – 2,896 Net finance loss/(income) 103,370 (104,722) Foreign exchange loss 3,942 2,689 Working capital adjustments Decrease in trade and other receivables 3,876 8,656 Decrease in prepayments and other assets – 143 Increase in trade and other payables 2,617 15,656 Cash generated from operations (34,042) 4,514 Income tax (paid)/received (623) 3,402 Net cash from operating activities (34,665) 7,916 17. Financial instruments (a) Fair value category As at 31 December 2016 US$ thousands Available-for-sale At fair value investments through profit at fair value Loans and Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables Trade and other receivables – – 484 Loans to related parties – – 480,508 Available-for-sale financial assets – 116,171 – Derivative financial instruments 23,150 – – At fair value through profit or At amortised Financial liabilities: loss cost Interest-bearing loans – 798,027 Trade and other payables – 808 Derivative financial instruments 646 – As at 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Available-for-sale At fair value investments through profit or at fair value Loans and Financial assets: loss through OCI receivables Trade and other receivables – – 3,766 Loans to related parties – – 706,989 Available-for-sale financial assets – 71,442 – Derivative financial instruments 117,075 – – At fair value through profit Financial liabilities: or loss At amortised cost Interest-bearing loans – 797,032 Trade and other payables – 16,721 Derivative financial instruments 1,427 – Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 235 17. Financial instruments continued FRESNILLO TODAY (b) Fair values The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying Amount Fair Value 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 23,150 117,075 23,150 117,075 Loans to related parties1 480,508 706,989 480,508 706,989 Available-for-sale financial assets 116,171 71,442 116,171 71,442 Financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans2 798,027 797,032 840,904 805,352 STRATEGIC REPORT Derivative financial instruments 646 1,427 646 1,427 1. Loans with related party are categorised in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 2. Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2016/US$ thousands Fair value measure using Quoted prices Significant Significant in active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Option commodity contracts – 23,005 – 23,005 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 145 – 145 – 23,150 – 23,150 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 116,171 – – 116,171 116,171 23,150 – 139,321 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts – 66 – 66 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 580 – 580 – 646 – 646 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As of 31 December 2015/US$ thousands Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts – 116,995 – 116,995 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 80 – 80 – 117,075 – 117,075 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 71,442 – – 71,442 71,442 117,075 – 188,517 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts – – – – Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 1,427 – 1,427 – 1,427 – 1,427 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. 236 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 17. Financial instruments continued The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: Options and forwards foreign exchange contracts The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The foreign currency forward (Level 2) contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies. The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency. Option commodity contracts The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The option commodity (Level 2) contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities. The option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity. Quoted investments Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets. Interest-bearing loans Fair value of the Company’s interest-bearing loan, is derived from quoted market prices in active markets. Loans with related parties Fair value of the Company’s loan to related party is determined using a discounted cash flow method based on market interest rates at each reporting date. (c) Derivative financial instruments The Company enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its subsidiaries’ exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from the activities of these subsidiaries. Also the Company enters into option contracts to manage its subsidiaries’ exposure to commodity price risk associated with the sales of gold. In the Group’s consolidated financial statements certain of these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Company’s stand alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges. The following tables summarize the fair value of derivative financial instruments held as of 31 December 2016 and 2015. Financial assets As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 145 1 Swedish krona – 1 Option contracts1: US dollar – 78 Commodity contracts Option contracts1: Gold 23,005 113,000 Lead – 1,060 Zinc – 2,935 Total derivative related assets 23,150 117,075 Less – Current portion 6,618 19,602 Non-current portion2 16,532 97,473 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 237 17. Financial instruments continued FRESNILLO TODAY Financial liabilities As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 570 – Canadian dollar 10 – Option contracts1: US dollar – 1,427 Commodity contracts Option contracts1: Gold 16 – Lead 2 – STRATEGIC REPORT Zinc 48 – Total derivative related liabilities 646 1,427 Less – Current portion 630 1,427 Non-current portion2 16 – 1. Option contracts operate as zero cost collars. 2. Non-current portion corresponds to Gold option contracts that mature in a period over one year from the reporting date until 30 December 2019. 18. Financial risk management Overview The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are comprised of trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale financial assets, loans to and from related parties, interest-bearing loans and trade payables. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company enters into certain derivative transactions with the purpose of managing foreign exchange risk arising on the activity and transactions of its subsidiaries. The Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: • Market risk, including foreign currency, interest rate and equity price risks • Credit risk • Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Company’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Company’s objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company risk management framework. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Company’s risk management policies have been established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company activities. The Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Company risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. 238 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 18. Financial risk management continued (a) Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, or interest rates will affect the Company income or the value of its financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. Foreign currency risk The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. Transactions in foreign currencies include the purchase of services, payment or receipt of dividends and other items. As a result, the Company has financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 15% (388) (10%) 330 2015 10% (11,349) (10%) 6,556 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 10% (63) (10%) 94 2015 5% 213 (10%) (78) The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar compared to the euro, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 5% 459 (10%) (1,024) 2015 10% – (10%) – Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 239 18. Financial risk management continued FRESNILLO TODAY Commodity risk The Company’s subsidiaries have exposure to changes in metals prices (specifically gold, lead and zinc) which have a significant effect on the Company’s results. These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles. The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge against precious metals commodity price exposure in its subsidiaries, see mentioned in note 17 (c). The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity relating to changes in the fair value of commodity derivative contracts of financial assets and liabilities, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax with all other variables held constant. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the effect on profit before tax. Effect on profit before tax: Increase/(decrease) in commodity prices increase/ STRATEGIC REPORT (decrease) Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands 2016 10% 25% 40% 40% (112,583) (15%) (20%) (30%) (15%) 59,589 2015 15% 20% 25% 20% (98,118) (10%) (15%) (25%) (15%) 121,716 Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments. The Company’s earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on any floating element of the loans with related parties and interest earned on cash balances. Interest-bearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount. Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase/ increase/ (decrease) in (decrease) Year ended 31 December interest rate US$ thousands 2016 65 1,870 (20) (575) 2015 50 551 (10) (110) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equity price risk The Company has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Company’s profit before tax and equity. Effect on profit Effect on equity: Increase/ before tax: increase/ (decrease) in increase/ (decrease) Year ended 31 December equity price (decrease) US$ thousands 2016 100% – 116,172 (50%) – (58,086) 2015 50% – 35,721 (30%) (5,135) (16,297) 240 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 18. Financial risk management continued (b) Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Company’s ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments. The financial assets are trade and other receivables, intercompany loans, cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale financial assets. The Company’s policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties’ failure to honour their obligations. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Company’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counter party. The Company’s financial assets are with counterparties that the Company considers to have an appropriate credit rating. As disclosed in note 14, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties. At each balance sheet date, the Company’s financial assets were neither impaired nor past due. The Company’s policies are aimed at minimising losses from the foreign currency and commodity hedging contracts. The Company’s foreign currency and commodity derivative contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings. The Company’s surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V., which manages cash and cash equivalents investing in a number of financial institutions. In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Company only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of M-1 (Moody’s) and mxA-1+ (Standard and Poors) and above, and only for periods of less than four months. The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes. See note 6 for the maximum credit exposure for available-for-sale investments, note 8 for cash and cash equivalents and note 14 for related party balances. (c) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Company monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. US$ thousands Within 1 year 2–3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 892,534 1,123,869 Derivatives financial instruments – liabilities 630 16 – – 646 Trade and other payables 7,400 – – – 7,400 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2–3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 938,801 1,170,136 Derivatives financial instruments – liabilities 342,108 730,303 317,359 – 1,389,770 Trade and other payables 16,819 – – – 16,819 The disclosed financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows. However, those amounts may be settled gross or net. The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms. US$ thousands Within 1 year 2–3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Inflows 10,932 – – – 10,932 Outflows (11,229) – – – (11,229) Net (297) – – – (297) US$ thousands Within 1 year 2–3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Inflows 347,301 746,924 319,165 – 1,413,390 Outflows (342,108) (730,303) (317,359) – (1,389,770) Net 5,193 16,621 1,806 – 23,620 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from derivative financial instruments which the Company expects are going to be exercised from 2017 to 2019 as at 31 December 2016, and from 2016 to 2019 as at 31 December 2015, either by the Company or counterparty. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 241 18. Financial risk management continued FRESNILLO TODAY Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities. Capital management The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value. Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains and losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-forsale financial assets. In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholder’s capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable. The Company’s dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows. STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 242 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Operating Statistics ORE PROCESSED SILVER (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fresnillo 2,584,163 2,738,307 2,703,395 2,625,511 2,410,033 2,373,092 395.9 327.6 285.3 258.5 220.0 226.7 Ciénega 966,812 1,112,850 1,242,168 1,341,569 1,329,364 1,274,939 53.3 105.2 121.6 108.5 129.0 143.5 Herradura 21,020,356 24,641,053 14,363,315 22,305,133 22,875,421 25,158,600 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.2 Saucito 823,339 905,027 1,181,737 1,534,579 2,339,096 2,635,093 249.9 264.9 329.6 338.9 327.5 302.7 Soledad-Dipolos 12,264,860 15,317,860 6,701,841 – – – 0.7 0.5 0.4 – – – Noche Buena – 8,447,301 12,283,709 15,607,230 17,399,931 17,431,718 – 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.1 San Julián – – – – – 423,069 – – – – – 172.5 ZINC CONCENTRATE SILVER (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fresnillo 24,544 29,212 29,325 29,196 36,595 50,682 2,363 1,641 1,356 1,221 1,036 868 Ciénega 17,657 16,103 11,625 11,850 11,694 14,265 266 540 1,266 1,172 1,770 1,692 Herradura – – – – – – – – – – – – Saucito 3,064 3,706 8,758 20,794 42,643 50,409 1,917 1,760 1,087 789 788 842 Soledad-Dipolos – – – – – – – – – – – – Noche Buena – – – – – – – – – – – – LEAD CONCENTRATE SILVER (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fresnillo 61,050 65,045 63,256 57,263 50,787 58,584 14,337 11,780 10,469 10,180 8,737 7,653 Ciénega 17,877 15,487 13,380 12,627 13,721 15,600 2,084 5,622 7,974 8,004 8,418 7,607 Herradura – – – – – – – – – – – – Saucito 14,419 15,539 26,055 40,415 69,128 61,321 12,329 13,699 13,460 11,443 9,405 10,440 Soledad-Dipolos – – – – – – – – – – – – Noche Buena – – – – – – – – – – – – Doré And Other Products PRODUCT SILVER (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ciénega precipitates 36.5 52.2 55.7 67.4 68.2 59.4 101,662 148,731 187,928 175,026 204,790 282,650 Ciénega Gravimetric Concentrator 88.5 – – – – – 2,069 – – – – – Herradura doré 24.2 18.1 18.2 31.1 33.6 46.8 474,514 374,787 474,052 650,999 480,633 417,271 Herradura slag 542.7 929.9 711.3 716.9 779.1 807.1 2,036 817 930 1,198 578 965 Soledad-Dipolos doré 7.5 4.8 2.3 – – – 208,897 226,272 292,473 – – – Soledad-Dipolos slag 590.1 583.2 301.5 – – – 2,024 857 972 – – – Fresnillo Concentrates from Tailings Dam 2,658.7 2,311.7 1,990.0 2,277.5 1,544.2 433.9 3,387.5 2,787.1 3,031.9 2,872.0 2,565.5 2,573.1 Noche Buena doré – 3.3 4.8 7.6 8.0 7.1 – 121,837.5 261,005.1 333,260.8 213,687.2 69,443.6 Noche Buena slag – 206.3 548.6 564.2 452.1 229.0 – 288.6 495.0 1,125.6 707.2 263.4 Metal Produced 1, 2 SILVER GOLD (ounces) (ounces) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fresnillo 30,295,121 26,382,793 22,764,018 20,098,245 15,612,175 15,864,614 26,237 29,573 33,079 35,676 34,120 42,421 Ciénega 1,473,927 3,328,574 4,240,245 4,075,181 4,827,864 5,130,870 116,841 125,275 112,053 108,211 85,662 72,851 Herradura 404,689 242,503 298,984 679,073 525,757 637,775 327,729 314,547 264,562 265,564 398,866 520,366 Saucito 5,904,176 7,053,780 11,581,014 15,396,754 21,983,852 21,946,059 33,493 45,246 45,177 57,227 84,884 86,198 Soledad-Dipolos 88,888 50,915 31,124 – – – 158,513 107,329 47,285 – – – Noche Buena – 14,754 49,217 102,357 72,868 32,631 – 65,518 108,729 129,242 158,179 182,280 San Julián – – – – – 2,065,536 – – – – – 31,397 Fresnillo Total 38,166,800 37,073,319 38,964,601 40,351,611 43,022,515 45,677,485 662,813 687,488 610,884 595,920 761,712 935,513 1. Including Production from Fresnillo’s Tailings Dam. 2. All figures include 100% of production from the Penmont mines (Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena). Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 243 GOLD ZINC LEAD FRESNILLO TODAY (grams/tonne) (%) (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0.42 0.46 0.50 0.53 0.57 0.73 0.87 0.96 0.94 0.97 1.18 1.56 0.58 0.66 0.63 0.59 0.75 0.99 3.89 3.62 2.90 2.59 2.07 1.84 1.45 1.12 0.75 0.73 0.80 1.00 0.82 0.68 0.56 0.53 0.61 0.68 0.65 0.57 0.61 0.72 0.73 0.71 – – – – – – – – – – – – 1.43 1.75 1.41 1.40 1.42 1.39 0.42 0.54 0.87 1.32 1.70 1.49 0.23 0.35 0.55 0.75 1.01 0.93 0.57 0.51 0.54 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 0.51 0.54 0.51 0.50 0.51 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 2.47 – – – – – – – – – – – – GOLD ZINC LEAD (grams/tonne) (%) (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.7 2.6 2.7 3.0 2.6 2.8 51.4 51.2 50.9 52.1 52.0 51.1 – – – – – – 6.2 6.5 13.6 11.8 11.2 10.1 52.8 50.7 47.0 50.6 51.1 52.2 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 14.0 12.8 5.4 3.5 3.0 3.8 38.2 48.3 51.5 50.5 49.3 46.6 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – GOLD ZINC LEAD (grams/tonne) (%) (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12.0 12.8 14.7 17.4 18.7 20.0 – – – – – – 21.9 24.9 24.6 24.3 32.0 36.4 111.5 130.7 138.4 146.9 105.0 76.5 – – – – – – 35.3 36.7 36.0 37.5 39.5 37.7 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 69.3 87.5 52.1 42.3 36.3 40.6 – – – – – – 12.1 17.8 21.5 24.7 30.0 34.1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – GOLD (grams/tonne) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 32,663 33,846 26,459 20,327 16,008 15,660 3,822 – – – – – 379,755 473,042 411,210 247,967 369,321 351,900 1,851 1,314 1,035 756 541 942 502,909 539,249 507,822 – – – 1,949 1,295 991 – – – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.0 6.8 9.1 10.8 10.4 14.5 – 542,429 516,359 465,538 533,408 611,567 – 1,260 1,623 815 506 1,225 ZINC LEAD (tonne) (tonne) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12,623 14,966 14,914 15,199 19,029 25,898 13,385 16,190 15,552 13,888 16,248 21,326 9,318 8,171 5,459 6,000 5,970 7,450 6,315 5,676 4,811 4,736 5,425 5,883 – – – – – – – – – – – – 1,172 1,791 4,509 10,501 21,023 23,498 1,742 2,773 5,605 9,967 20,740 20,935 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 23,113 24,928 24,881 31,700 46,022 56,845 21,442 24,639 25,968 28,591 42,413 48,144 244 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Fresnillo Plc Consolidated Audited Mineral Resource Statement 1 As at 31 December 2016 Quantity Grade Contained Metal Cut-off Tonnes Au Ag Pb Zn Au Ag Pb Zn Resource Category Grade2 (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (Moz) (Moz) (kt) (kt) Minera Fresnillo – Fresnillo/Proaño Mine – Underground Measured 95 g/t AgEq 11.59 0.86 581 0.99 1.65 0.32 216.40 114.71 191.37 Indicated 25.09 0.83 274 1.80 3.83 0.67 220.85 452.35 961.95 Measured & Indicated 36.68 0.84 371 1.55 3.14 0.99 437.25 567.06 1,153.32 Inferred 36.07 0.63 311 1.04 2.22 0.73 360.90 375.48 800.79 Minera Saucito – Saucito Mine – Underground Measured 113 g/t AgEq 3.70 2.54 415 1.21 1.95 0.30 49.33 44.60 72.00 Indicated 12.61 1.99 262 1.67 3.13 0.81 106.30 210.49 395.12 Measured & Indicated 16.31 2.12 297 1.56 2.86 1.11 155.63 255.09 467.12 Inferred 32.75 0.91 253 1.21 2.26 0.96 265.85 394.91 739.00 Minera Ciénega – Ciénega Complex – Underground Measured Multiple 3 8.80 2.08 133 0.72 1.23 0.59 37.48 63.41 108.03 Indicated 18.05 1.21 132 0.42 0.71 0.70 76.35 76.13 128.41 Measured & Indicated 26.84 1.49 132 0.52 0.88 1.29 113.83 139.54 236.45 Inferred 10.62 0.95 133 0.41 0.81 0.33 45.32 43.45 85.62 Minera Fresnillo – San Julián Mine Underground: Veins Measured 90 g/t AgEq 0.91 2.40 174 – – 0.07 5.08 – – Indicated 10.97 1.49 134 – – 0.53 47.37 – – Measured & Indicated 11.87 1.56 137 – – 0.60 52.45 – – Inferred 4.67 1.16 102 – – 0.17 15.25 – – Minera Fresnillo – San Julián Mine Underground: Disseminated Measured 129 g/t AgEq 7.66 0.10 290 0.72 1.71 0.02 71.48 55.12 131.15 Indicated 9.16 0.07 162 0.54 1.43 0.02 47.74 49.08 130.58 Measured & Indicated 16.82 0.08 220 0.62 1.56 0.04 119.22 104.20 261.73 Inferred 0.02 0.05 46 0.08 2.17 0.00 0.04 0.02 0.53 Minera Penmont Underground: Centauro Profundo Measured 1.7 g/t Au – – – – – – – – – Indicated 1.27 3.65 – – – 0.15 – – – Measured & Indicated 1.27 3.65 – – – 0.15 – – – Inferred 6.28 3.40 – – – 0.69 – – – Minera Penmont Open Pit: Mega Centauro 4, 5 Measured Multiple 6 272.26 0.74 – – – 6.48 – – – Indicated 160.50 0.75 – – – 3.88 – – – Measured & Indicated 432.77 0.74 – – – 10.36 – – – Inferred 17.26 0.72 – – – 0.40 – – – Minera Penmont Open Pit: Soledad-Dipolos 4, 5, 7 Measured 0.25 g/t Au 39.19 0.57 – – – 0.72 – – – Indicated 19.63 0.52 – – – 0.33 – – – Measured & Indicated 58.82 0.55 – – – 1.05 – – – Inferred 0.03 0.34 – – – 0.00 – – – Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 245 Quantity Grade Contained Metal FRESNILLO TODAY Cut-off Tonnes Au Ag Pb Zn Au Ag Pb Zn Resource Category Grade2 (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (Moz) (Moz) (kt) (kt) Minera Penmont Open Pit: Noche Buena 4, 5 Measured 0.25 g/t Au 33.79 0.52 – – – 0.56 – – – Indicated 20.79 0.49 – – – 0.33 – – – Measured & Indicated 54.58 0.51 – – – 0.89 – – – Inferred 2.84 0.44 – – – 0.04 – – – Totals – Underground Measured & Indicated Multiple 109.79 1.18 249 0.97 1.93 4.17 878.38 1,065.89 2,118.62 Inferred 90.42 0.99 236 0.90 1.80 2.87 687.36 813.86 1,625.95 Totals – Open Pit Measured & Indicated Multiple 546.17 0.70 – – – 12.30 – – – STRATEGIC REPORT Inferred 20.13 0.68 – – – 0.44 – – – 1. Mineral resources are reported inclusive of ore reserves. Mineral resources are not ore reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. All ﬁgures rounded to reﬂect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Gold, silver, lead and zinc assays were capped where appropriate. 2. Mineral resources are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions*, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions (variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution), mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative (G&A) costs, and variable NSR factors (NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs). The AgEq is calculated by dividing the cost by the Ag net value factor which includes prices, recoveries, and payabilities. 3. The cut-off grade for Ciénega’s mineral resources varies between 95 and 132 gpt AgEq. 4. The Mega Centauro, Soledad/Dipolos, and Noche Buena resources are reported within pit shells run at a US$1,250/oz Au price. 5. The Mega Centauro, Soledad/Dipolos, Noche Buena open pit mines has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.3 gpt to 1.1 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. Based on past production, projected in situ silver in the open pit M & I & I resource is approximately in the range of 16 to 17 Moz. 6. Mega Centauro mineral resources are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade. Oxide material above 0.25 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material above 0.30 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, oxide material above 0.82 gpt Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.44 gpt Au reports to the mill. 7. The Soledad/Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access. SRK has been provided with reassurances that Fresnillo has a reasonable chance to reacquire surface rights to these areas. * Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of metal equivalent grades are: Gold (US$/oz 1,250.00), Silver (US$/oz 17.50), Lead (US$/lb 0.85) and Zinc (US$/lb 0.95) · The resources were estimated by Fresnillo. Dr. Bart Stryhas, CPG #11034, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Minera Penmont and San Julián. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matthew Hastings, M.Sc, P.Geo, MAusIMM #314693 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Ciénega. Benjamin Parsons, BSc, MSc Geology, MAusIMM (CP) #222568 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Fresnillo and Saucito. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 246 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Audited Mineral Resource Statement of Exploration Projects and Prospects 1 As at 31 December 2016 Quantity Grade Contained Metal Cut-off Au Ag Pb Zn Au Ag Pb Zn Deposit/Fresnillo Subsidiary Grade 2 Tonnes (kt) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (koz) (koz) (kt) (kt) Measured Mineral Resource Orisyvo – disseminated Au 4 0.34 g/t Au 41,455 1.43 2 – – 1,902 2,047 – – Candameña – disseminated Au 4 – – – – – – – – – San Julián Sur – veins – – – – – – – – – Leones – breccia 4 – – – – – – – – – Tajitos – disseminated Au – – – – – – – – – Lucerito – breecia/mantos 4 – – – – – – – – – Rodeo – disseminated Au – – – – – – – – – Manzanillas – veins US$58.30/t 75 6.76 130 – – 16 316 – – San Juan – veins – – – – – – – – – Juanicipio – veins 3 – – – – – – – – – Huizache – veins – – – – – – – – – Guachichil – disseminated Au 4 – – – – – – – – – Opulencia – veins – – – – – – – – – La Gloria – veins – – – – – – – – – La Joya – veins – – – – – – – – – Cebadillas – veins – – – – – – – – – La Yesca – veins – – – – – – – – – San Nicolas – veins – – – – – – – – – Pilarica – mantos – – – – – – – – – Total Measured 41,530 1.44 2 – – 1,919 2,363 – – Indicated Mineral Resource Orisyvo – disseminated Au 4 0.36 g/t Au 201,152 1.05 1 – – 6,793 8,666 – – Candameña – disseminated Au 4 0.57 g/t Au-Eq 43,424 0.81 17 0.06 0.07 1,126 24,079 24 29 San Julián Sur – veins – – – – – – – – – Leones – breccia 4 – – – – – – – – – Tajitos – disseminated Au 0.3 g/t Au 7,982 0.50 – – – 128 – – – Lucerito – breecia/mantos 4 1.00 g/t Au-Eq 108,246 0.40 27 0.29 0.47 1,398 92,276 314 506 Rodeo – disseminated Au 0.30 g/t Au 5,504 0.57 3 – – 101 589 – – Manzanillas – veins US$58.30/t 919 3.53 69 – – 104 2,034 – – San Juan – veins US$58.30/t 3,105 1.25 127 – – 125 12,643 – – Juanicipio – veins 3 US$55.10/t 5,087 1.90 502 2.07 3.92 311 82,176 105 199 Huizache – veins – – – – – – – – – Guachichil – disseminated Au 4 – – – – – – – – – Opulencia – veins 2.10 g/t Au-Eq 1,350 2.48 142 – – 108 6,145 – – La Gloria – veins 2.10 g/t Au-Eq 980 3.02 76 – – 95 2,389 – – La Joya – veins – – – – – – – – – Cebadillas – veins – – – – – – – – – La Yesca – veins – – – – – – – – – San Nicolas – veins – – – – – – – – – Pilarica – mantos 21 g/t Ag-Eq 9,133 – 109 0.29 0.42 – 32,027 26 38 Total Indicated 386,881 0.83 21 0.12 0.20 10,290 263,024 470 773 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 247 Quantity Grade Contained Metal FRESNILLO TODAY Cut-off Au Ag Pb Zn Au Ag Pb Zn Deposit/Fresnillo Subsidiary Grade 2 Tonnes (kt) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (koz) (koz) (kt) (kt) Inferred Mineral Resource Orisyvo – disseminated Au 4 0.35 g/t Au 46,682 0.61 1 – – 914 1,625 – – Candameña – disseminated Au 4 0.48 g/t Au-Eq 12,158 0.56 21 0.05 0.12 221 8,396 6 14 San Julián Sur – veins US$36.94/t 9,515 1.20 94 – – 367 28,726 – – Leones – breccia 4 60 g/t Ag 7,049 0.01 113 1.46 1.27 1 25,509 103 90 Tajitos – disseminated Au 0.3 g/t Au 13,622 0.52 – – – 227 – – – Lucerito – breecia/mantos 4 1.00 g/t Au-Eq 52,990 0.43 37 0.23 0.40 730 62,293 125 213 Rodeo – disseminated Au 0.30 g/t Au 78,519 0.47 5 – – 1,196 12,865 – – Manzanillas – veins US$58.30/t 317 2.03 46 – – 21 474 – – San Juan – veins US$58.30/t 5,694 1.49 106 – – 274 19,401 – – Juanicipio – veins 3 US$55.10/t 8,538 1.68 206 2.42 4.65 461 56,511 207 397 STRATEGIC REPORT Huizache – veins US$75/t 1,038 2.55 319 0.04 0.09 85 10,640 – 1 Guachichil – disseminated Au 4 0.48 g/t Au-Eq 46,708 0.70 11 0.11 0.17 1,057 15,862 50 81 Opulencia – veins 2.10 g/t Au-Eq 1,703 2.56 169 – – 140 9,250 – – La Gloria – veins 2.10 g/t Au-Eq 2,614 2.61 103 – – 220 8,657 – – La Joya – veins 2.10 g/t Au-Eq 2,495 2.39 409 – – 192 32,812 – – Cebadillas – veins 2.10 g/t Au-Eq 1,999 2.58 64 – – 166 4,142 – – La Yesca – veins 159 g/t Ag-Eq 1,091 0.77 142 – – 27 4,988 – – San Nicolas – veins 2.10 g/t Au-Eq 2,167 1.61 225 – – 112 15,684 – – Pilarica – mantos 33 g/t Ag-Eq 11,033 – 64 0.70 0.78 – 22,539 78 86 Total Inferred 305,933 0.65 35 0.19 0.29 6,410 340,373 569 884 1. Mineral resources are not ore reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. All figures rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Metal assays were capped where appropriate. Mineral resources are reported at variable metal, metal equivalent or NSR cut-off grades and assuming reasonable metal recoveries. Orisyvo, Lucerito, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Candameña, Rodeo and Guachichil mineral resources are reported inside a conceptual pit shell based on appropriate mining and processing costs and metal recoveries for oxide and sulfide material. Equivalent metal grades (and conceptual pit optimization) are based on US$1,250/US$1,400 per ounce of gold for underground or open pit projects, respectively, US$17.50 per ounce of silver, US$0.95 per pound of zinc and US$0.85 per pound of lead. For Pilarica, equivalent metal grades are based on US$21.00 per ounce of silver, US$1.14 per pound of zinc and US$1.02 per pound of lead. 2. Cut-off grade calculations assume variable metallurgical recoveries. 3. Portions of the Valdecañas deposit within the Minera Juanicipio property where Fresnillo plc holds a 56% interest. Mineral resources quoted reﬂect Fresnillo plc’s attributable 56% ownership. 4. Mineral resources statement prepared independently by SRK CA. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 248 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Audited Ore Reserve Statement 1 As at 31 December 2016 Quantity Grade Contained Metal Cut-off Tonnes Au Ag Pb Zn Au Ag Pb Zn Deposit Grade 1 (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (Moz) (Moz) (kt) (kt) Minera Fresnillo – Fresnillo/Proaño Mine – Underground (2) Proven 184 g/t AgEq 4.49 0.61 353 0.71 1.20 0.09 50.93 31.80 53.95 Probable 20.29 0.78 237 1.76 3.71 0.51 154.55 357.02 752.37 Proven and Probable 24.78 0.75 258 1.57 3.25 0.60 205.48 388.82 806.32 Minera Saucito – Saucito Mine – Underground (2) Proven 173 g/t AgEq 3.28 1.57 290 0.81 1.33 0.17 30.59 26.59 43.61 Probable 12.35 1.76 233 1.52 2.81 0.70 92.63 187.19 347.38 Proven and Probable 15.63 1.72 245 1.37 2.50 0.86 123.22 213.78 390.99 Minera Ciénega – Ciénega Complex – Underground (2) Proven Multiple (3) 5.19 2.56 163 0.87 1.43 0.43 27.12 45.19 73.99 Probable 7.51 1.61 162 0.49 0.75 0.39 39.15 36.55 56.65 Proven and Probable 12.70 2.00 162 0.64 1.03 0.82 66.27 81.74 130.64 Minera Fresnillo – San Julián Mine Underground: Veins (2) Proven 162 g/t AgEq 0.67 2.34 159 – – 0.05 3.41 – – Probable 5.77 1.76 162 – – 0.33 29.95 – – Proven and Probable 6.43 1.82 161 – – 0.38 33.36 – – Minera Fresnillo – San Julián Underground: Disseminated (2) Proven 180 g/t AgEq 0.37 0.10 162 0.47 1.38 0.00 1.90 1.72 5.04 Probable 13.52 0.08 230 0.61 1.45 0.03 100.07 82.73 195.41 Proven and Probable 13.88 0.08 228 0.61 1.44 0.04 101.97 84.45 200.45 Minera Penmont Open Pit: Mega Centauro (4) Proven Multiple (5) 143.55 0.74 – – – 3.41 – – – Probable 77.69 0.71 – – – 1.78 – – – Proven and Probable 221.24 0.73 – – – 5.19 – – – Minera Penmont Open Pit: Soledad-Dipolos (4, 6) Proven 0.25 g/t Au 26.81 0.61 – – – 0.53 – – – Probable 14.05 0.54 – – – 0.24 – – – Proven and Probable 40.85 0.59 – – – 0.77 – – – Minera Penmont Open Pit: Noche Buena (4) Proven 0.25 g/t Au 33.79 0.52 – – – 0.56 – – – Probable 20.79 0.49 – – – 0.33 – – – Proven and Probable 54.58 0.51 – – – 0.89 – – – Totals – Underground Proven Multiple 13.99 1.63 253 0.75 1.26 0.73 113.96 105.30 176.60 Probable 59.44 1.02 218 1.12 2.27 1.96 416.34 663.48 1,351.81 Proven and Probable 73.43 1.14 225 1.05 2.08 2.69 530.29 768.78 1,528.40 Totals – Open Pit Proven Multiple 204.14 0.69 – – – 4.50 – – – Probable 112.53 0.65 – – – 2.35 – – – Proven and Probable 316.68 0.67 – – – 6.85 – – – 1. All ﬁgures rounded to reﬂect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Mineral reserves are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions*, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions (variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution), mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative (G&A) costs, and variable NSR factors (NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs). The AgEq is calculated by dividing the cost by the Ag net value factor which includes prices, recoveries, and payabilities. 2. Reserves include planned dilution to a minimum mining width and to minable outlines. 3. The cut-off grades for the Ciénega reserve vary between 183 and 243 gpt Ag equivalent. 4. Reserves have no additional dilution added to that inherent in the Selective Mining Unit (SMU) of 15m x 15m x 8m. Reserves are converted from resources through the process of pit optimisation, pit design, production schedule and supported by a Minera Penmont cash flow model. 5. Mega Centauro mineral reserves are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade. Oxide material above 0.25 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material above 0.30 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, oxide material above 0.82 gpt Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.44 gpt Au reports to the mill. 6. The Soledad/Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access. SRK has been provided with documents indicating a reasonable chance that these actions will be settled in favour of the mine. * Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of metal equivalent grades are: Gold (US$/oz 1,250.00), Silver (US$/oz 17.50), Lead (US$/lb 0.85) and Zinc (US$/lb 0.95) · Full mining recovery assumed with a factor applied for pillars where appropriate. · The reserves are valid as of December 31, 2016. All topography is valid as of October 31, 2016. · For the next audit, Increased reserves are expected at Herradura-Centauro following estimated resource growth. Further work is required to estimate the growth of reserves. The ore reserves were estimated by Fresnillo. Bret C Swanson, BE (Min) MMSAQP #04418QP, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the open pit reserve calculations. Fernando Rodrigues, BS Mining, MBA, MMSAQP #01405, MAusIMM #304726 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the underground reserve calculations. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 249 Shareholder Information Financial calendar Report a scam FRESNILLO TODAY Preliminary Statement 28 February 2017 If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA First Quarter Production Report 26 April 2017 using the form at www.fca.org.uk/scams (where you can also review Annual General Meeting 23 May 2017 the latest scams) or call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. Second Quarter Production Report 26 July 2017 Interim Statement 1 August 2017 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Third Quarter Production Report 25 October 2017 Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. Dividend payment schedule For further information, please visit our website: 2016 Final Dividend Record Date 28 April 2017 www.fresnilloplc.com or contact: 2016 Final Dividend Payment Date 26 May 2017 Fresnillo plc 2017 Interim Dividend Record Date 11 August 2017 Tel: +44(0)20 7399 2470 2017 Interim Dividend Payment Date 8 September 2017 Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations STRATEGIC REPORT Registrar Joint Corporate Broker Forward looking statements Equiniti Ltd Merrill Lynch International This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to Aspect House 2 King Edward Street be, ‘forward-looking statements’. These forward-looking statements Spencer Road, Lancing London EC1A 1HQ can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom the terms ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, ‘plans’, ‘projects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘expects’, United Kingdom ‘intends’, ‘may’, ‘will’, or ‘should’ or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, Registered office Auditor plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions. These forward21 Upper Brook Street Ernst & Young LLP looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts. London W1K 7PY 1 More London Place They appear in a number of places throughout this document and United Kingdom London SE1 2AF include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Group’s United Kingdom intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, the Group’s results of operations, financial position, liquidity, Corporate headquarters Solicitor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE prospects, growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries. By Calzada Legaria No. 549 Linklaters LLP their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty Torre 2, Piso 11 One Silk Street because they relate to future events and circumstances. Delegación Miguel Hidalgo London EC2Y 8HQ 11250 Mexico, D.F. United Kingdom Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future Mexico performance and the actual results of the Group’s operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets Sponsor and Corporate Broker and the industry in which the Group operates, may differ materially JPMorgan Cazenove Limited from those described in, or suggested by, the forward-looking 25 Bank Street statements contained in this document. In addition, even if the results London E14 5JP of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development United Kingdom of the markets and the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share fraud warning document, those results or developments may not be indicative of Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the results or developments in subsequent periods. A number of factors blue and offered shares that turn out to be worthless or noncould cause results and developments to differ materially from those existent, or an inflated price for shares they own. These calls come expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements including, from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler rooms’, mostly based abroad. without limitation, general economic and business conditions, While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in this way usually lose their money. Most victims are experienced regulation, currency fluctuations (including the US dollar and Mexican investors, losing on average £20,000. peso exchange rates), the Group’s ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its resources Protect yourself into reserves and its mineral potential into resources or reserves, If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, changes in its business strategy, political and economic uncertainty. inflated prices for shares you own, or free company or research reports, take these steps before handing over any money: Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from actual results. Any forward-looking statements in this document 1. Get the name of the person and organisation. speak only as of the date of this document, reflect the Group’s current 2. Check the Financial Services Register at www.fca.org.uk/ view with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to register to ensure they are authorised. future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating 3. Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact to the Group’s operations, results of operations, growth strategy and the firm. liquidity. Investors should specifically consider the factors identified 4. Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are in this document which could cause actual results to differ before no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out making an investment decision. Subject to the requirements of the of date. Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the 5. Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any doing business with. obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions 6. REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! to any forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Group’s expectations or to reflect events If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will not or circumstances after the date of this document. have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things go wrong. 250 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 251 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes 252 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 Notes
