HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 Hyundai Mobis puts the safety of its customers before everything else. Self-driving car A self-driving car refers to a car that automatically travels to its destination on its own without the driver controlling the steering wheel, accelerator or brake pedal. ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting Outline Hyundai Mobis has published sustainability reports on plans and progress related to its environmental, social and economic performance for stakeholders since 2010. Relying on the reporting process, in which stakeholders play a key part in, major sustainability issues are identified to collect stakeholder opinions on issues to improve performance and activities. Reporting Structure This report comprises four parts: corporate profile, special themes, key material issues and general issues, and major management achievements and performance prioritized in order according to stakeholder interest level as uncovered in the reporting process. Detailed data and information on the performance of each business unit and a GRI index are provided in the Appendix on p.78~92. Reporting Guidelines This report was compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines, with the Core option applied. Reporting Period The reporting period cover the 2016 calendar year, from January 1 to December 31. Quantitative data from three-year trends from 2014 to 2016 are provided, highlighting certain data regarding material issues extending to the first half of 2017. Reporting Scope The report covers the business performance of Hyundai Mobis, including its headquarters, manufacturing sites, R&D center and regional offices, with limited coverage on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, locally hired employees, and sales break-down by region for overseas operations. The reporting scope will be extended later in the report. Reporting Scope, Significant Changes to Performance Measurement Financial data was reported on a consolidated basis, and this report uses financial data as per Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) and energy use and GHG emissions data based on verified results. Report Assurance The report content has been verified independently by a third-party entity, the Korea Productivity Center, whose verification statement is provided in the Appendix on p.87~88 of the report. http://www.mobis.co.kr http://dart.fss.or.kr Hyundai Mobis website Business Report (Korea Financial Supervisory Service) Hyundai Mobis Sustainability Report 2017 safe Today Happy Tomorrow Contents Overview Material Issues 04 CEO Message 32 Future Core Technology 06 Corporate Profile 40 Customers Satisfaction 08 Sustainability Highlights 48 Win-Win Partnership 10 Global Network 52 Employee Diversity 14 Management System 60 Environmental Management 16 Management Performance 17 Stakeholder Engagement Corporate Achievements 18 Materiality Test 66 Corporate Governance 68 Compliance Special Theme 72 Risk management 22 Strategy for Overseas Technical 74 Social Contribution Centers 24 Technical Center of North America Appendix 26 Technical Center of Europe 80 Sustainable Management Practices 28 Technical Center of India 81 Management Performance 29 Technical Center of China 82 Employees 83 Win-Win Partnership 84 Social Contribution 85 Environmental Management 86 GHG Assurance Statement 87 Third Party Assurance Statement 89 GRI Index Cover Story Hyundai Mobis makes the safety of its customers its first priority in developing technologies, from driver assistance systems and autonomous driving technology to eco-friendly auto parts and components, customer-oriented technologies, and future technologies. Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix CEO Message Hyundai Mobis secures global competitiveness by pursuing future growth engines and strengthening its internal competencies. Meanwhile, we create new social and environmental values based on our economic performance in pursuit of sustainable growth, by sharing these values with our stakeholders. 04 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Distinguished stakeholders, I’d like to express my sincere appreciation for your continued support of Hyundai Mobis. Since changing its corporate name from Hyundai Precision Industry Co., Ltd to Hyundai Mobis in 2000, we have transformed ourselves into an auto parts company and achieved sustainable growth and development during the past decade despite a prolonged period of low growth and repeated global economic crises. Although Korea’s major industries experienced difficulties due to the unpredictable global political environment resulting from Brexit and the results of the U.S. presidential election last year, we concentrated on strengthening our global competitiveness. As a result, Hyundai Mobis achieved outstanding performance in sales, which increased more than 10 times from KRW 2.94 trillion in 2000 to 38.26 trillion in 2016. In this way, Hyundai Mobis has fulfilled its corporate social responsibility to address the problems of socially vulnerable groups by acting as a reliable partner for domestic and overseas carmakers and contributing to the growth of the regional economy. Securing Future Growth Engines through Sustainable Growth Hyundai Mobis attended the CES (Consumer Electronics Show), which is North America’s biggest trade show which brings together the most advanced technologies, contributing to the future of the global auto industry by showcasing its next-generation autonomous driving and eco-friendly technologies. This was only possible because of the full support of all stakeholders, including suppliers and shareholders, as well as employees working toward providing top-quality products and services to become a lifetime partner in the field of automobiles and beyond, realizing sustainable mobility together for a better future. In this way, Hyundai Mobis has made strenuous efforts to strengthen global competitiveness to achieve sustainable growth by pursuing future growth engines. Moreover, we will focus our competencies on internalizing core technologies to be applied to future vehicles and expand our lineup of top ranked products globally. To do this, we will increase R&D investments and recruit outstanding R&D staff, while also faithfully carrying out government tasks for next-generation car development and reinforcing university-industry collaboration. Facilitating Socially Responsible Management through Global Cooperation Hyundai Mobis engages in business activities based on a cooperation system for local communities and its suppliers and a sense of environmental responsibility. We have extended our domestic social contribution activities to cover our overseas sites. Since the launch of the Transparent Umbrella Campaign in Jiangsu, China in 2014, we distributed transparent umbrellas and held a Junior Engineering Class Program for elementary school students in locations across China where our business sites are located, including Beijing, Shanghai, Jiangsu and Chongqing in 2016. Last year, we also expanded our social contribution programs to provide a Junior Engineering Class Program in Frankfurt, Germany. In this way, we are doing our best to become an eco-friendly company, while also contributing to the production of vehicles that protect the environment by supplying core parts to green cars, including hybrid and hydrogen vehicles. Since the launch of energy management systems at the Gimcheon, Changwon and Jincheon plants in 2015, we have expanded the systems to 30 domestic and overseas sites, ensuring efficient energy use and carbon reduction. Win-Win Partnership for Stakeholders Since 2010, Hyundai Mobis has made strenuous efforts to provide practical support to its suppliers by implementing the Seven Beautiful Pledges, an upgraded version of its existing support program for suppliers. Besides general exchanges with suppliers, we also provide diverse support to our suppliers, including the provision of training and technological support as well as financial aid. Also, Hyundai Mobis has contributed to strengthening its suppliers’ competitiveness together with quality improvements by establishing a communication system for its suppliers, including video conference functionality and an integrated portal. Going forward, Hyundai Mobis promises to secure global competitiveness by pursuing future growth engines in accordance with a principle-based approach and a safety-first policy. Furthermore, we promise to continuously achieve sustainable growth by creating new economic, social and environmental values, ensuring a persistent win-win partnership with all our stakeholders. May 2017 President & CEO Hyundai Mobis Young-deuk Lim MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 05 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Corporate Profile History Hyundai Mobis continuously works towards the future by surmounting challenges and pursuing innovation to rise up to be a leading global automotive parts supplier. It has grown to become the sixth largest global automotive parts supplier in only 10 years since it entered the automotive parts industry, and based on this potential, is now aiming to emerge as a company that takes the lead in changing the global market and leading the way forward in the field of future automotive technology. 1970 ~1999 1977 ・ Established Hyundai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. 1991 ・ Launched the Galloper model 1987 ・ Opened the Mabuk R&D Center 1995 ・ Launched the Santamo model 1989 ・ IPO and listed on the Korean Stock Exchange 1999 ・ Produced the first Chassis Module 2000 ~2009 2000 ・ Takeover of Hyundai・Kia Motors After-sales parts 2007 ・ Completion of the braking system factory business in Changwon ・ Publicly announced company name change as ・ Merged with KASCO (CBS & PSP) Hyundai Mobis 2008 ・ Established the Quality Institute 2001 ・ Completion of the Mechatronics R&D Center ・ Completion of Lamp manufacturing factory 2002 ・ Completion of the Module factory in Jiangsu, China in Gimcheon ・ Completion of the Module factory in Beijing, China ・ Entry into the hybrid business 2003 ・ Completion of the MEB factory in Cheonan 2009 ・ Merged with Hyundai Autonet Co., Ltd. 2004 ・ Completion of the Module factory in Alabama, USA (Electronic) 2005 ・ Completion of the Asan Logistics Center ・ Completion of the Module factory in Czech 2006 ・ Completion of the Module factory in Slovakia ・ Won 2 billion USD order for Chassis ・ Completion of the Module factory in Ohio, USA Modules from Chrysler Group ・ Completion of the Module factory in India 2010 ~ 2010 ・ Joint Venture established for Battery Technology 2014 ・ Completion of the winter test road in with LG Chemical Co. Heilongjiang Province, China 2011 ・ First commercialization of AVM in Korea ・ Began construction of a module plant in 2012 ・ A new electronic research wing completed at the Mexico Mabuk R&D Center 2015 ・ Began construction of a module plant in ・ Completion of the Module Production Plant in Hebei, China Piracicaba, Brazil ・ Began construction of a module plant in ・ Completion of the Conventional Braking System Chongqing, China (CBS) Plant in Slovakia 2016 ・ Attended the CES (Consumer Electronics 2013 ・ First wide-production of Parts for Fuel-Cell Vehicles Show) ・ Completion of the Module factory in Izmit, Turkey ・ Conducted mass production at the Mexico ・ The number of Module Productions reached over plant (modules, lamps, CBS, etc.) 100 million (Chassis·FEM·Cockpit Modules) ・ Completion of the Module Production Plant in Cangzhou, China 06 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Module Parts Manufacturing Hyundai Mobis utilizes its cutting-edge vehicle modularization technology to manufacture and supply chassis modules, cockpit modules and frontend modules, the three core modules required by carmakers. Through collaboration with carmakers, the advanced module parts produced at Hyundai Mobis’ promotional video Hyundai Mobis are perfected from the very first stage of R&D, through to design and testing. Introduction of Business Areas (Unit: KRW million) Name Hyundai Mobis Co., Ltd. KRW 19,956 billion President & CEO Young-deuk Lim Establishment June 25, 1977 Headquarters 203 Teheran Road (Yeoksam-dong), Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Rear chassis module Cockpit module Airbag, audio/video, air Sales 38,261,745 Cross member, strut, axle, etc. conditioner/heater, cluster, glove box, etc. Operating income 2,904,692 Earnings before taxes 4,111,171 Net income 3,047,282 Front-end module Front-end’s cooling module, head lamp, bumper, carrier, etc. Core Parts Manufacturing Aftermarket Service (AS) Parts Hyundai Mobis mobilizes all resources available to develop core parts Hyundai Mobis is responsible for the supply of about 61 million that enhance the driving experience and make vehicles more convenient, aftermarket service (AS) parts for vehicles manufactured by Hyundai as well as improve road safety and environmental protection. Converging and Kia Motors that are on the roads both in Korea and abroad. In the electronics and cutting-edge IT, our motors and battery systems form the event of a requirement for AS parts, we provide top-quality customer core of our eco-friendly technologies. Going forward, we will continue service by promptly supplying the required parts on a timely basis. To to invest in technology to further solidify our market position in green do this, Hyundai Mobis has built a cutting-edge logistics system and an & intelligent automotive parts. extensive distribution infrastructure that manages about 2.36 million auto parts in stock for 223 car models. KRW 11,619 billion KRW 6,687 billion Smart Cruise Control (SCC) Blind Spot Detection (BSD) Inside India’s Chennai Component Center Asan Logistics Center MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 07 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Sustainability Highlights Employees Research & Development Purchasing ‌Casual Fridays to Create a Flexible ‌Korea’s First Auto Parts Company to ‌Passing on Know-how to Suppliers Corporate Culture be Approved for Participation in a Selfthrough On-site Visits Hyundai Mobis designated the last Friday of each Driving Car Trial Hyundai Mobis has made on-site visits to its suppliers month as a ‘casual Friday’ to create a flexible Hyundai Mobis was Korea’s first auto parts company to provide win-win programs and discover solutions corporate culture, ensuring a right to individuality. to be licensed by the Ministry of Land, Transport and to problems. Since March 2016, we have focused Casual Fridays encourage vertical and horizontal Maritime Affairs to test a self-driving system, with the on technical assistance for about 40 parts suppliers communication and interaction together with a issuance of a special license plate for road testing. regarding process optimization and technology flexible dress code that goes beyond a fixed mindset. We plan to accelerate technological development standardization. In particular, Hyundai Mobis’ Starting from 2017, Hyundai Mobis will extend its of autonomous driving technologies by recording employees from production sites passed on their casual dress code policy from once a month to a variety of driving data obtained from the trial on know-how by making on-site visits to strengthen every Friday, proof of the company’s desire to create video. the company’s win-win partnership with suppliers. a flexible corporate culture. ‌Developing e-DIH for Large Pickup Trucks ‌Providing Win-Win Funding for Agencies ‌Invitational Training Programs for In order to help improve the business environment Hyundai Mobis succeeded in developing e-DIH, an Outstanding Global Talent electronic parking brake system, for large pickup of domestic agencies to meet changing demand and Hyundai Mobis invited about 40 outstanding employees trucks, which has not yet been applied in global market conditions, Hyundai Mobis has provided winwho work at overseas subsidiaries to attend training win funding for agencies starting from the first half markets. The system has changed from being programs developed to match their specific needs. of 2016. If agencies borrow a large sum of money operated mechanically using cables to one with an Training programs aiming to strengthen competencies from financial institutions for facility investment, we electronically controlled motor. It is expected to be for different duties and enhance understanding of the provide support for them for as long as five years by used in large vehicles such as trucks or buses that company were provided for outstanding talent from the paying interest on loans through win-win funding, need greater braking power. Chinese subsidiary and North American and European enabling agencies to stabilize their business by Technical Centers. Going forward, Hyundai Mobis reducing their financial burden. will continue to provide support for employees from different backgrounds regardless of nationality, gender and other differences. Number of Domestic and Overseas R&D Expenditures Primary Suppliers KRW 695.7billion Total Workforce 1,276 companies 29,499 employees R&D Staff Members (domestic) Purchase Amount 9,225 in Korea / 20,274 overseas 2,921persons KRW 16.83 trillion * Including all employees as of December 31, 2016 (pre-retirees, executives, outside directors, etc.) 08 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Production Logistics Customers‧Community ‌First Mass Production at Mexico Plant ‌Established a New Logistics Center in ‌Implementing the Hyundai Mobis Forest Hyundai Mobis began mass production at its Mexico Belgium Carbon Offset Project plant, which supplies just-in-sequence inventory Hyundai Mobis established and began operation Starting from 2016, Hyundai Mobis implemented the to clients by installing bumpers, lamps, CBS and of a new central logistics center of about 56,198m² Forest Carbon Offset Project to offset greenhouse gas airbags in module products. (17,000 pyeong) in Beringen, Belgium. The Belgium emissions by creating forests. The forest area created Central Logistics Center will reduce logistics and related to this project is 8.23ha, with 4,819 pine trees ‌Celebrating the 10th Founding Anniversary inventory costs by becoming a logistics hub in planted and managed. As a result, it is expected that of Mobis North America Europe, and shorten lead time by at least two days the annual amount of carbon absorbed by the forest when delivering certain parts to clients. will be 31.1tCO2. In 2016, Hyundai Mobis celebrated the 10th anniversary of the founding of Mobis North America. Since the supply of modules to MNA’s major client ‌Established a Next-Generation Demand ‌Junior Engineering Class in Germany Chrysler began in 2006, we have produced parts for Forecast System Hyundai Mobis held classes related to safe cars for 4 million vehicles over the past ten years. Hyundai Mobis set up a next-generation demand 32 sixth graders at Schule am Ried for the first time forecast system that introduced optimal methods in Europe together with Hyundai Mobis Technical after analyzing a variety of demand forecast Center of Europe (MTCE) in Frankfurt, Germany, and methods, thereby increasing customer satisfaction garnered high levels of satisfaction from teachers and by analyzing past demand patterns to ensure students. In 2017, Hyundai Mobis plans to expand its optimal inventory control and management. social contribution programs internationally. Module Supply Amount AS Parts Supply Amount Donations 134.13 million modules 2.36 million auto parts KRW 17.3 billion Sales Sisterhood Organizations and Households KRW 38.26 trillion 119 sisterhood relationships MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 09 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Global Network In order to strengthen its position as an auto parts company, Hyundai Mobis has established a global network to strengthen its competitiveness. We aim MTCE to achieve a new target of becoming a global top MQE MNA tier producer that transcends our position as Korea’s MTCA MPE-UK largest auto parts manufacturer. MPCA ● MPA ●● MQA MAL ● MAL-GA ● ● ● ● ● MPMI MMX MMX (Mobis Mexico) parts MBR MBR (Mobis Brazil) parts ● Manufacturing sites Logistics centers Technical centers Quality centers Overseas branches and offices (As of December of 2016) Classification Total workforce (persons) Sales (million) Korea 9,225 12,951,765 Overseas China 7,965 9,787,131 America 6,024 8,715,554 Europe 4,914 4,899,331 Asia-Pacific/Others 1,371 1,907,964 10 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix MPE-SE MTJ MRU MBJ ● MCJ ● MPRU BMP ● ● ● MPE-DE MCQ ● ● MCZ HQ ● MSK ● ● ● MPE-HU ● ● ● ● ● MTR ● ● ● ● MPME-EG MTCI ● ● MTKO ● ● MSH ● MPSH MPE-IT ● MTCC MPE-BE ● MQC MPE-ES ● MJS MJYB MIN MPJY MPME MWX MIN (Mobis India) parts MKLO MQI ● MPAU (Unit: sites) Classification Manufacturing sites Logistics centers Technical centers Quality centers Branches and offices Korea 12 4 1 Overseas China 8 3 1 1 America 5 5 1 1 Europe 4 8 1 1 Asia-Pacific/Others 1 1 1 1 2 MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 11 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Global Network Manufacturing Sites Europe MCZ H  yundai 171, 739 51 Nosovice, Dobra Korea Czech Republic Ulsan Factory MSK M  obis Ulica 1; 013 02 Gbelany, 01001 MPCA 706, Yeompo-ro, Buk-gu, zilina, Slovakia Ulsan(Hyundai Mobis) MRU S  aint-Petersburg, Gorskaya st., ● Ihwa Factory Levashovskoe shosse., uchastok 1 MTCA 707, Namyangman-ro, Ujeong-eup, Mobis Plant 197704 Hwaseong-si, Gyeonggi-do MTR A  sim Kibar Organize Sanayi Bolgesi 2, MQA ●● Asan Factory cadde No:4 41310 Izmit, Kocaeli, Turkey 40, Tojeong-ro, Yeongin-myeon, Asan-si, MNA Chungcheongnam-do Asia-Pacific/Others MPA Seosan Factory MIN P  LOT NO. G-1,SIPCOT Industrial Park, ● 140, Eumam-ro, Eumam-myeon, Seosan-si, Irrungattukottai, Sriperumbudur Taluk, ● Chungcheongnam-do MAL-GA ● Kancheepuram Dist.,Tamilnadu 602 ● Anyang Factory 105. India ● 337-53, Bakdal-ro, Manan-gu, Anyang-si, MPMI Gyeonggi-do ● Logistics Centers MAL GwangJu Factory 45, Jungang-ro, Jingoksandan, Korea Gwangsan-gu, Gwangju MMX Logistics center Cheonan Factory MMX (Mobis Mexico) parts Asan Logistics Center 105, 2gongdan 2-ro, Seobuk-gu, Cheonansi, Chungcheongnam-do 420, Tojeong-ro, Yeongin-myeon, Asan-si, Chungcheongnam-do Poseung Factory 16, Poseunggongdan-ro, 118beon-gil, Gyeongju Logistics Center Poseung-eup, Pyeongtaek-si Gyeonggi-do 26, Wondong 3-gil, Oedong-eup, Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do Chungju Factory 47, Gieopdosi 1-ro, Chungju-si, Naengcheon Logistics Center Chungcheongbuk-do 439, Naeoe-ro, Oedong-eup, Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsang buk-do MBR Changwon Factory Ulsan Logistics Center MBR (Mobis Brazil) parts 87, Seongsanpaechong-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do 706, Yeompo-ro, Buk-gu, Ulsan(Yeompo-dong) ● Gimcheon Factory 258-45, Gongdan-ro, Gimcheon-si, Overseas Gyeongsangbuk-do (Eungmyeong-dong) China Jincheon Factory BMP R  m 1008. 21 Floor,Hyundai Motor Tower, 95, Sayang 2-gil, Munbaek-myeon, Xiaoyun Road, chaoyang District,Beijing, Jincheon-gun, Chungcheongbuk-do China (100027) MPJY N  o.696 Yandu Road, Yandou New Overseas District, Yancheng City, Jiangsu, China, MTCE China 224005 MQE MBJ 5  9 Shuanghe Rd, Shunyi District, Beijing, MPSH N  o. 1011 Jiujing Road, Songjiang Hi101300, China tech Park No. 1800 Husong Rd Jiu Ting, Shanghai, China, 201615 MJS N  o.12 Hope Road South , Economic America MPE-SE Developing Zone , Yancheng, 224000, China MPA 1  0550 Talbert Ave. 4th Floor, Fountain MJYB N  o.70 Hope Road South, Economic MRU MPE-UK Valley, CA 92708 Developing Zone, Yancheng China ● MPRU MPMI 1  3200 NW 17 Street Miami, FL 33182, ● MTJ N  o.12 ,9th Street, TEDA, Tianjin, China U.S.A ● MWX No.15 Xinrong Road, No. 16-A New MPCA 1  0 Mobis Drive, Markham, Ontario, MPE-DE Tech Industrial Development Zone, Wuxi, L6C 0Y3 ● ● Jiangsu, 214112, China MMX (Mobis Mexico) parts MCZ ● ● ● MSH N  o. 1011 Jiujing Road, Songjiang Hi-tech Carretera Libre Estatal Pesqueria-los Ramones MSK ● MPE-BE Park No. 1800 Husong Rd Jiu Ting, KM 13-15, Localidad La Arena, Pesqueria ● ● Shanghai, China, 201615 MPE-HU Nuevo Leon, C.P. 66679, Mexico MCJ E  conomic Development Zone, Jingye MBR (Mobis Brazil) parts ● ● MTR Science and Technology Partk 3-2, Av. Independencia n 350. SL 103/104. Alto. MPE-IT Cangzhou City, HeBei Province, China, Cep 13419-160. Piracicaba. State of Sao Paulo, 061000 Federative Republic of Brazil MPE-ES MCQ Yufu Industrial Estates 6F, Chongqing ● Liangjiang New Area, China, 401133 Europe MPE-DE M  unchener Str.18, 06796 Brehna ● America Germany MPME-EG MAL 1  395 Mitchell Young Road, Montgomery, MPE-BE N  eusenberg 2 BE-3583 Beringen, Alabama 36108, USA BELGIUM MPME MAL-GA 7  001 KIA Parkway West Point, GA, MPE-UK Ansley Hall Drive Birch Coppice USA. 31833 Business Park Tamworth MNA 3  900 Stickney Avenue Toledo, Ohio, Warwickshire B78 1SQ UK MPE-SE L ogistikvägen 1, 55652 Jönköping 43608, USA MMX C  arretera Libre Estatal Pesqueria-los Sweden Ramones KM 13-15, Localidad La Arena, Pesqueria Nuevo Leon, C.P. 66679, MPE-ES P  oligono Industrial Meco R2 Calle de Mexico Zeus 16-18 Modulo 3 28880 Meco Madrid Spain MBR A  v. Independencia n 350. SL 103/104. Alto. Cep 13419-160. Piracicaba. State MPE-IT V  iale dell'industria 23, 20010 Pregnana of Sao Paulo, Federative Republic of Brazil Milanese, Italy MPE-HU H  -2030 Erd, Fiastyuk utca 5, HUNGARY 12 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix In order to strengthen its position as an auto parts company, Hyundai Mobis has established a global network to strengthen its competitiveness. We aim to achieve a new target of becoming global top tier producer that transcends our position as Korea’s largest auto parts manufacturer. MPRU P  resnenskaya nab, 6/2, 26th Floor MKLO S  uite 19-01, Level 19, G Tower, 199 123317 Moscow Russia Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Others MPME P  .O.BOX 17337 JEBEL ALI FREE ZONE AS Parts Sales Offices DUBAI, U.A.E MPME-EG H  YUNDAI MOBIS AUTO PARTS Northern parts sales office 27, Seonma-ro, Pocheon-si, Gyeonggi-do PLOT NO 801 ALEX FREE ZONE, AMRIA END OF 9TH STREET, ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT Western parts sales office 45, Chukhyeon sandan-ro, TanhyeonMTJ MPAU 1  41-145 Newton Road, Wetherill Park myeon, Paju-si, Gyeonggi-do NSW 2164 Gangwon parts sales office MIN (Mobis India) parts MBJ 941-5, Gyeonhwon-ro, Munmak-eup, MCJ Wonju-si, Gangwon-do 204-206, 2nd Floor, Corporate One (Baani BMP Building), Plot No 5, Commercial Centre, Jasola, New Delhi-110 076, India Gangneung parts sales office 137-69, Gwahakdanji-ro, Sacheon-myeon, MCQ Gangneung-si, Gangwon-do HQ Technical Centers Chuncheon parts sales office 858, Bongmyeong-ri, Dongsan-myeon, Korea Chuncheon-si, Gangwon-do ● ● ● ● Mabuk technical center Eastern parts sales centers office 17-2, Mabuk-ro 240beon-gil, Giheung-gu, 77, Dunjeon-ro, Pogok-eup, Cheoin-gu, ● Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do ● ● MTKO Incheon parts sales office 195, Chukhang-daero, Jung-gu, Incheon Overseas ● ● Southern parts sales office MTCI North America 40, Dongtansandan 1-gil, Dongtan-myeon, MSH Hwaseong-si, Gyeonggi-do MTCA 4  6501 Commerce Center Dr, Plymouth, MPSH MI 48170, USA Chungcheong parts sales office MTCC 125, Mojeon 1-gil, Seonggeo-eup, Seobuk-gu, ● Europe Cheonan-si, Chungcheong nam-do MQC ● MTCE W  ilhelm-Fay-Strasse 51, 65936 Jeonbuk parts sales office Frankfurt am Main, Germany 2428-57, Beonyeong-ro, Baekgu-myeon, ● MJS Gimje-si, Jeollabuk-do China MJYB Jeonnam parts sales office MTCC N  o.1011 Jiujing RD, Songjiang Hi-tech 300, Donghwa-ro, Donghwa-myeon, MPJY ● Park, No. 1800 Husong RD, Jiuting, Jangseong-gun, Jeollanam-do Shanghai, 201615, China Daejeon parts sales office MIN MWX India 150, Sintanjin-ro 756beon-gil, Daedeok-gu, Daejeon MIN MTCI  Unit-1 & Unit -2. 7th & 8th Floor Seosan parts sales office (Mobis India) in Building No. 12B, M/s. Sundew 140, Eumam-ro, Eumam-myeon, Seosan-si, parts Properties Limited, IT/ITES SEZ Chungcheo ngnam-do MKLO Mindspace. Madhapur Village, MQI Serilingampally Mandal, HYDERABAD Suncheon parts sales office Ranga Reddy District, Telangana – 500 136, Gurangsiljae-gil, Seo-myeon, Suncheon081 si, Jeollanam-do Mokpo parts sales office 76, Mogucheon-gil, Samho-eup, YeongamQuality Centers gun, Jeollanam-do Jeju parts sales office Overseas 361, Bukseon-ro, Jocheon-eup, Jeju-si, ● Jeju-do North America Gyeongbuk parts sales office MQA M  obis Parts America LLC, 1917 S 45, Uisong-gil, Jillyang-eup, Gyeongsan-si, Gyeongsang buk-do MPAU Vineyard Ave. Ontario CA 91761 Europe Gyeongnam parts sales office 2736, Gimhae-daero, Gimhae-si, Gyeongsang MQE Z  weigniederlassung Deutschland nam-do Wilhelm-Fay-Strasse 51 D-65936 Frankfurt am Main Busan parts sales office 85, Sojugongdan 2-gil, Yangsan-si, China Gyeongsangnam-do MQC N  o.1011 Jiujing RD, Songjiang Hi-tech Pohang parts sales office Park, No. 1800 Husong RD, Jiuting, 6-13, Injwaan-gil, Gangdong-myeon, Shanghai, 201615, China Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do Gimcheon parts sales office Others 256, Sicheong-ro, Gimcheon-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do Manufacturing sites MQI A  -27 Ground Floor, Mohan Cooperative Andong parts sales office Logistics centers Industrial Estate, Mathura Road, New Delhi -110044 INDIA 2298, Pungil-ro, Iljik-myeon, Andong-si, Technical centers Gyeongsang buk-do Jinju parts sales office Quality centers  -21, Injeolmigogaet-gil, Chukdong-myeon, Overseas Branches and Offices 2 Overseas branches and offices Sacheon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do Others MTKO A  kasaka 1-Chome Center Bldg 12F, 1-11-30 Akasaka, Minato-Ku, Tokyo, 107-0052, Japan MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 13 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Management System Guided by our business philosophy which aims to improve human existence by creating a new future through ingenious thinking and constant innovation, Hyundai Mobis aims to become a lifetime partner in the field of automobiles and beyond. In doing so, Hyundai Mobis shares its vision and five core values with its employees. Also, we will create a virtuous cycle of sharing values with our stakeholders by pursuing a mid-to long-term social responsibility strategy by 2020. Business Philosophy Guided by our business philosophy which aims to improve human existence by creating a new future through ingenious thinking and constant innovation, Hyundai Mobis aims to become a leading global company. Not content to rest on its present accomplishments, the company strives to reach its full potential for the realization of future possibilities, while incorporating an unlimited sense of responsibility for the greatest satisfaction of stakeholders as it implements social outreach activities to contribute to a better society for everyone. Core Values Customer Challenge Collaboration People Globality Group-wide Automobiles Vision Global Top Tier, a lifetime partner Together for a better future in automobiles and beyond ▼ Business Improving human existence by creating a new future through Philosophy ingenious thinking and continuous innovation ▼ CSR Vision Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow Local Growing alongside local communities Shareholders A company to believe in Communities Environmental protection, social contri& Investors Transparent & stable management and bution activities, and active interaction maximized value for shareholders and with local communities investors Customers Sustainable mobility Employees Most preferred employer Technical advancement, top-quality prodFair evaluations and compensation, ucts, enhanced customer credibility, active support of competency-building, safety customer communication at workplaces, generous benefits and a pleasant working environment Partner A reliable partner Companies Fair and transparent transactions, information sharing and technology transfers Other A leader in addressing climate change stakeholders Supporting global initiatives to mitigate climate change, enhancing corporate competitiveness by effectively addressing climate change Global Transparent management Compliance Compliance with active participation and Efforts observance of official policies and laws across the globe 14 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Vision By supplying top-quality products and services, Hyundai Mobis aims to become a lifetime partner in the field of automobiles and beyond, realizing sustainable mobility together for a better future. To that end, Hyundai Mobis developed three-year objectives and channeled its resources to realize a midto long-term corporate vision of becoming one of the world’s top five automotive parts suppliers by 2020. Core Values The five core Hyundai Mobis values-Customer, Challenge, Collaboration, People, Globality-provide guidelines for Hyundai Mobis to realize its business philosophy and achieve its vision, as well as set the standard for employee behavior and decision-making criteria. Therefore, we strive to meet challenges and enhance collaboration by actively participating in the group-wide Core Value Engagement Survey (CVES) to identify implementation levels and areas that need improvement, while also creating a creative corporate culture that respects both our customers and talented employees. Hyundai Mobis shares and internalizes its five core values with all employees to enhance community spirit and solidarity, thereby achieving sustainable growth and development. CSR Management Hyundai Mobis has implemented a CSR management solution to achieve Hyundai Motor Group’s new mid-to long-term strategy for social contributions as fulfills its obligations as a Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow, while also maintaining its commitment to finding a balance for the economic, social and environmental impact of its values and performance to share them among stakeholders. Moreover, Hyundai Mobis classifies stakeholders in order to carry out its CSR strategy, as it identifies implementation tasks and creates a working-level CSR team to focus on related issues. Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow ❶ Based on competencies in the overall value chain ❷ Creating a sustainable future ❸ A trustworthy partner for change Authenticity Partnership Present Future CSR Fostering a basic approach Creating a partnership Responding to urgent Improving the quality Strategy to accepting responsibility, among stakeholder and and pending problems of life by creating values demonstrating leadership and contribute to society to share with the wider improving competency-based community autonomy Based on Competencies in Contributing to society through best practices established in Hyundai Motor Group’s areas 1 the Overall Value Chain of expertise, including innovative technologies and outstanding products and services Creating a Sustainable Proposing a future vision that ensures self-sufficiency by balancing the demands 2 Future and priorities of all stakeholders A Trustworthy Partner for Provide guidelines and support for fundamental changes in institutions, rules, 3 Change systems and culture MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 15 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Management Performance Hyundai Mobis’ ultimate aim is not only to make sustainable profits, but also share them with its stakeholders. Therefore, we distribute our earnings among stakeholders fairly, aiming to achieve our corporate values of sharing and cooperation. In 2016, Hyundai Mobis created economic value worth KRW 38.88 trillion and shared this growth in value among all stakeholders. Creation and Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW million) Suppliers 32,748,338 s erve res Sup ny’s pli er Employees pa s m rves A mo u n t co dist reses ri b u ny ’ r ibu t ed ted The c pa om nds dist de rs to s u 1,901,100 e de hol ivi are sh Th pp o d lie Government d rs an t ders & Investo rehol etirement bene ges, r es fits, 1,125,196 rs nn (Wa Sha Interest expens Total Value Distributed Perso Employees efit expens ge ben es) f rin 38,881,915 el expenses Local communities 18,221 d ate n Ta al l oc ti o Shareholders & Investors i bu s x u nt Go &d A mo t r u es it con ie ve un i al s rn fo r s oc me nt l co m m 41,778 Loca The company’s reserve amount 3,047,282 Total Value Created Sales Other Revenue 38,881,915 38,261,745 620,170 16 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Stakeholder Engagement Hyundai Mobis defines its CSR management as the process of communicating with stakeholders to achieve shared value. Therefore, our endeavors are aimed at contributing to the sustainable growth of society and the nation as well as achieving high customer satisfaction while protecting the environment. Going forward, Hyundai Mobis will achieve performance that satisfies all stakeholders through active communication and cooperation with them. Definition of Stakeholder Hyundai Mobis classifies its stakeholders into eight groups and maintains different channels for communication with all of them. Stakeholder group Communication channels Activities Complete carmakers/ • Complete carmakers and OEM-part suppliers • P  roduction and sales policies, shared direction for Competitors product development, joint projects, quality & technology capability tests, and market trend monitoring Employees • Korea: 9,225 / Overseas: 20,274 •E mployee satisfaction surveys, company-wide corporate culture assessments, CSR awareness surveys, assessments of employee awareness of business ethics, and Cyber Auditing Business partners • Korea: 859 companies (primary suppliers) • R  egular meetings, executive-level conferences, seminars • CTO Forum: 90 companies for CEOs of suppliers and for suppliers of overseas subsidiaries, and CTOs (Chief Technology Officers) Customers • K orea: 1,856 dealerships, Overseas: 535 agencies, • A  gency policy seminars, council meetings for executives, (dealers/consumers) 14,241 dealers, car shops, and end users and customer satisfaction surveys Investors • I nstitutional investors, individual investors, domestic • N  on-deal roadshows (NDR), disclosures, general annual and international credit rating agencies, and CSR shareholders’ meetings, and CSR evaluations rating agencies for investors Government/Associations • A dministrative organs, constitutional institutions, local • R  esponses to public policies and institutions, and joint governments and associations projects Media/Academia/ • K orean and international media, CSR associations, • B  rand recognition surveys, CSR communication CSR agencies CSR regulators, and technology forums activities, and industrial-academia R&D alliances Local communities • L ocal governments, social and environmental • S  ocial outreach partnerships (Hyundai Mobis Forest/ organizations, NGOs Mobility for Disabled Children/Junior Engineering Class/ Transparent Umbrella Campaign) Stakeholder Communication All departments related to sustainability management at Hyundai Mobis are in continuous communication with key stakeholders. The key details of opinions collected are shared at the CSR Committee three times a year (May, September and December). The CSR Team in charge of CSR activities reclassifies key information collected according to each field and establishes response strategies based on feedback provided in response to stakeholder demands. Likewise, key details are exclusively managed and reported to the board of directors, as well as disclosed publicly through our sustainability report. Monitoring and feedback Form an issue pool Hyundai Mobis CSR Report to the board Reflect results from CSR Team sustainMajor stakeholders ▶ ▶ CSR Team ▶ ▶ Committee of directors ability report and major test evaluations Regularly Three times a year Report once a year Gather opinions and provide responses MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 17 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Materiality Test Step 01 Identify External Issues Form an Issue Pool and Redefine Issues 1 Hyundai Mobis has run materiality test every year in acMedia Analysis Benchmarking competitors within the Evaluation of global standards Investigation and analysis same industry cordance with the GRI Guidelines, so that an issue pool of media reports made on Analysis of representative is organized to identify key internal and external manHyundai Mobis between Analysis of competitors and CSR-related global January 2016 and December leading companies as well standard reports and agement-related issues by conducting media analysis, 2016 as key material issues evaluation items evaluating global standards and government policies, 〮 Target: 5 competitors and 〮 Analyzed a total of 2,369 media 〮 DJSI benchmarking competitors within the same industry reports from newspapers, public leading companies 〮 GRI G4 and interviewing persons in charge of sustainability TV networks, cable TV networks, 〮 Sustainability report and 〮 ISO 26000 etc. the Internet, etc. annual report management from relevant divisions. Based on the issue pool identified, we redefine the issues by adjusting issue level and by combining or separating them. Step 02 Survey Participation Stakeholder Impact Analysis 2 Employees 2,627 Hyundai Mobis conducted surveys of stakeholders External 471 from November 28, 2016 to December 7, 2016 in order Stakeholders Suppliers Media/Academia/NGO to analyze the importance and impact of sustainability 158 13 Agencies Government issues. We surveyed 3,098 stakeholders (2,627 employees, 249 Clients 32 Local communities 1 471 external stakeholders) in nine groups on their Other company’s CSR Shareholders/investors 8 10 awareness of the company’s CSR management to drive key material issues. Total 3,098 Step 03 Material Issues Identified Selected report area Status report area Core report area 1 3 Material Issue Identification and Report 5 Content Selection 3 12 External concerns 13 2 6 4 Based on the impact analysis conducted in Step 2 and 8 16 9 the opinions of internal executives gathered, Hyundai 11 7 14 9 18 17 15 Mobis prioritized key issues for sustainable growth. Also, 19 the importance, response strategies and performance of 21 five key material issues identified are disclosed through 22 the report. 20 Internal concerns 18 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Identify Internal Issues Identifying an Issue Pool Redefining Importance Identifying Internal Policy Major stakeholder opinion Identification of a total of 22 Based on the issue pool of 22 Documents survey sustainability issues identified, sustainability issues 〮 Analyze the company’s vision and Sustainability management 〮 Economy: 7 key issues a total of 5 key material issues the 2016‧2017 management areas 〮 Environment: 5 key issues were identified by redefining strategy keywords the issues based on issue 〮 Society: 10 key issues Stakeholders including em〮 Analyze the CEO communica▶ ▶ level as well as combining or tion for keywords related to ployees, etc. separating them. management practices, including Participation in stakeholder the CEO’s New Year message, 〮 Economy: 2 key issues survey anniversary speech, etc. 〮 Environment: 1 key issues 〮 Analysis of the company maga〮 Society: 3 key issues zine and press releases Result of CSR Awareness Surveys Key sustainability issues significance Hyundai Mobis’ sustainability management (Unit: %) 49.0 36.0 36.9 34.7 15.8 14.6 9.3 1.5 0.2 2.0 Very Excellent Important Outstanding Normal Normal Not so Insufficient Not at all Not good important important Reporting target (22 issues) Core reporting area Status and selected report area Issues Material Aspect 1 Securing technological competitiveness 9 Products and services 16 ‌Strengthening competencies for parts and Expand global standards Economic performance components production and supply Economy 2 9 6 Soundness of corporate governance 17 ‌Enhance the reputation of shareholders and stakeholders (7 issues) 8 Transparent corporate culture 9 Risk management 3 Achieving customer satisfaction through Product and service labeling 12 Establish fair trade order quality control 3 Employment 13 Mutual growth Society Recruitment of talented employees 4 Product and service labeling 14 Pursue the safety of worksites 4 5 Improving customer satisfaction 5 (10 issues) 9 Labor-management relations, diversity and equal opportunity, equal re20 Improve health and welfare 7 Improve diversity and corporate culture muneration, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 22 Social contribution activities 9 Talent development 9 Training and education 11 Eco-friendly product policy 9 Materials, energy, products and services 15 Response to climate change Environment 18 ‌Environmental policies and environmental certifications (5 issues) 19 Manage ‌ pollutants and hazardous substances 21 Expand eco-efficiency MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 19 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Technical Center Trends Hyundai Mobis focuses its company-wide competencies across R&D areas to become a leading global auto parts company. In particular, we have set up overseas technical centers in major auto markets to recruit outstanding talent, as well as accelerate the advancement of technologies through differentiated strategies to meet specific local needs. Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix SPECIAL THEME Technical Center Technical Center of North America / Technical Center of Europe / Technical Center of India / Technical Center of China Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Strategy for Overseas Technical Centers Hyundai Mobis technical centers are located in Detroit, Frankfurt, Hyderabad, and Shanghai, reaching global markets by developing products to meet specific local needs to increase overall original equipment (OE) sales of Hyundai and Kia Motors across its global operations and conduct R&D for core technology targeting future smart cars. Hyundai Mobis has started expanding its global R&D networks by integrating and moving its China Technical Center to Shanghai in November 2014. In March and October of 2015, we moved our technical centers in India and North America to larger facilities, with plans to do the same with the Technical Center in Europe in 2017. In addition, we created websites for each location to recruit outstanding talent and raise awareness about our technical centers, while also increasing university-industry collaboration locally. We strengthened cooperation via a preliminary study related to chassis and DAS technology with the Technical University of Munich, Aachen University of Technology, and Fraunhofer, with plans to maintain close relationships with Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and Texas Tech University in the field of autonomous driving. Status of Overseas Technical Centers Detroit, U.S. Develop core technology customized for American conditions, including multimedia, chassis, and design, as well as advanced technology in the areas of DAS sensor and chassis development Frankfurt, Germany Develop core technology customized for European conditions, including multimedia, Frankfurt, Germany chassis, and design, as well as advanced technology in the areas of DAS sensor and chassis development Shanghai, China Develop products optimized for local conditions at reduced cost Hyderabad, India Develop and verify software for automotive applications, including multimedia and DAS Technical Center of Europe Developing new advanced technologies • DAS sensor and eco-friendly area Supporting OE orders, developing products and improving quality specialized to European conditions 22 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Hyundai Mobis overseas technical centers continue development to to meet local needs by identifying regional strengths, while also creating synergies through cooperation with the technical R&D center in Yongin. Overseas technical centers in North America and Europe are at the forefront of future smart car development, including core logics for autonomous driving and DAS. Based on outstanding software engineering talent, the Technical Center in India specializes in developing and verifying software for vehicles, including multimedia and DAS. Our Technical Center in China, located in Shanghai, is also making strenuous efforts to develop technology that meets local needs as well as reduce the cost of parts produced locally, including design, lamp, chassis and multimedia systems. Yongin, Korea Chino, USA Shanghai, China Detroit, USA Hyderabad, India Technical Center of India Technical Center of China Technical Center of Mabuk Technical Center of North America Developing SW Responding to mass production of Hyundai Fostering overseas Developing new advanced technologies and Kia Motors vehicles in China independent development • SW based on specifications designed • Autonomous driving and ICT area by Mabuk and overseas R&D centers • Independent design and quality evaluation competencies Supporting OE orders and developing Verifying SW Supporting OE orders and developing Developing platforms products specialized products specialized to for global operations to North American conditions • A stage immediately prior to SW Chinese conditions verification and independent verification & validation MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 23 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Michigan North America MTCA(Mobis Technical Center of America) Features of the Technical Center of North America Mobis Technical Center of North America (MTCA) is located in Detroit, famous as the birthplace of the automotive industry and the center of the global auto industry. Since its establishment in 2004 to support the manufacturing of chassis and cockpit modules for Hyundai and Kia Motors in the region, the MTCA started full-scale operations by reorganizing its organization and staff in 2008. The MTCA contributed to Hyundai Mobis’ MDPS development through joint development of independent steering logic for motor-driven power steering (MDPS) with the Technical Center in Mabuk, while also conducting a variety of R&D activities customized for North American conditions, including verifying the communications compatibility of multimedia products for Hyundai and Kia Motors and developing specific functionality. We also strived to win orders for the head office by promoting our products and technologies at tech shows and briefing sessions held for global clients, including GM and FCA, regarding electronic components, lamps and brake controls. 24 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Performance of the Technical Center of North America In 2016, Hyundai Mobis received orders from GM to invent a new electronic drum-in-hat (eDIH) parking and brake system for pickup trucks, with plans to mass produce lamps and electronic components and supply them to FCA starting from 2018. Meanwhile, in order to take the lead Chino, USA in the future smart car market, the MTCA strives to become a leading center by conducting R&D activities related to new technologies, including recruiting outstanding talent in the field Detroit, USA of autonomous driving technology starting from 2015 and developing core logic and system technologies through cooperation with local research institutes. Providing mass Technical Center of Mabuk production technology-based ‌Implementing development strategy for auautonomous tonomous driving by stage(mass production driving system Technical Center of North America technology-based) ‌Implementing fully autonomous driving ‌Developing mass production technologyComplying with development strategy(advanced technolbased system new core logics, ogy-based) requirements ‌Responding to regulations and policies specification and related regulations and policies Q1 Q3 At the region(or area) you are working currently, what What mostly drove you to work at Hyundai Mobis Technical kinds social, environmental, economical roles Hyundai Center? Mobis should conduct? I have worked in advanced engineering most of my career, with MTCA is located in Plymouth Michigan which is part of the Detroit the last several focused on autonomous technology. There is a metro area, and Detroit is a very unique and special city within huge race going on right now with the “Silicon Valley” companies the U.S. Detroit is well known for the auto industry, but what and the traditional auto companies to develop autonomous makes it unique is the disparity in economic conditions for the technology and lay claim to the new uncharted market. When I residents. The city was recently bankrupt, yet data shows that interviewed here at MTCA just over a year ago, I saw that Mobis the Detroit area has the highest concentration of engineers and was very hungry to be part of this race, to make a claim to the scientists in the U.S. So I think it is clear, Mobis and it’s employees new market. For me, this is exciting. here in Michigan are in the position to provide volunteer and gift support to the less fortunate (for example foodbanks and soup kitchens). Also, there is a need for STEM outreach programs to get younger kids interested and on track for careers in science and engineering. This could be a combination volunteer/gift program from Mobis that has a large and long lasting impact on many lives. David Agnew interview Q2 (Director of Advanced Engineering, MTCA) Which prodcuts and(or) technology do your Technical Center contrubite for Hyundai Mobis’ future sustainable growth? So I will talk about our Advanced Engineering group here, which is tasked to research and bring to reality autonomous vehicle technology. The approach that we are taking is different than many of our competition. We are looking at how to use autonomous technology to directly go after classes of vehicle accidents that cause the most damage (fatalities and serious injuries). The societal value in saving future lives is immeasurable at a personal level, to the families and friends, but it is also a large benefit to society as a whole when you consider the medical and property costs associated with traffic accidents. We feel the personal cost when we see an accident during our daily travel, but it is hard to realize the total cost when this happens 6 million times a year as in the U.S. So we are saving lives and improving lives, making people happier with our technology. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 25 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Frankfurt Germany MTCE(Mobis Technical Center of Europe) Features of the Technical Center of Europe In 2004, Mobis Technical Center of Europe (MTCE), which first opened in Frankfurt Eschborn in Germany with only 3 staff members dispatched from Korea and 1 locally hired employee, had a limited role, including ensuring compliance with European laws during its initial foundation stage and supporting technology sales targeting OE clients in Germany. However, after being integrated into the European automotive parts subsidiary in October 2010, the center increased its workforce and set up an organization structure divided by field of expertise, as well as conducted work related to evaluating multimedia and chassis systems for Hyundai and Kia Motors customized for European conditions. Starting from 2015, the MTCE played an important role in developing core technologies for next-generation smart vehicles, including a 48V battery system as key technology for the future of electric cars and a recognition algorithm for automobile sensors such as cameras and radars, by utilizing Germany’s outstanding talent pool and research institutes. 26 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Q1 Mobis is working on developing advanced car communication technology that can actualize sensor technology in the form of At the region (or area) you are working currently, what kinds cameras and radars and autonomous driving systems, while social, environmental, economical roles Hyundai Mobis also taking the lead in developing core technologies that set should conduct? the trend for eco-friendly technology by conducting research Frankfurt is a prosperous international city with many automotive on highly-efficient and high-voltage systems such as hybrid companies present in the region. It is perhaps surprising that systems. Mobis are not very well known in this region. I think running a social program aimed at educating school children on advanced Technology (i.e. providing a future perspective for them) would Q3 provide both benefits for the local community and raise the What mostly drove you to work at Hyundai Mobis Technical profile of Mobis. Center? Q2 I have significant experience in automotive engineering and the industry is undergoing something of a revolution in the mega trends listed above. I came to Mobis because I wanted to merge Which products and (or) technology do your Technical my automotive experience with the Korean energy (or work Center contrubite for Hyundai Mobis’ future sustainable ethic) to develop leading edge products and Systems in a fast growth? paced envioronment. There are three major trends that lead recent innovation in cars, and the biggest source of pride for MTCE is that we conduct research on advanced technologies that establish major trends interview Steve Edward for automotive innovation, including autonomous driving (Director of Advanced Engineering, MTCE) vehicles with no drivers required and connected cars that are always connected to the surrounding environment. The most important thing about autonomous driving technology is being able to recognize the surrounding environment. Hyundai Performance of the Technical Center of Europe In 2016, MTCE conducted research on ways to improve brake functions through a joint project Frankfurt, Germany with the University of Munich, as well as verified the application of steering and brake systems customized to meet European road conditions. In particular, the center played a very important role in developing Hyundai Mobis’ advanced technologies to ensure passenger safety and protect the environment by developing and verifying chassis and DAS technologies suitable for European roads. Since the number of research projects and research staff members has increased to carry out MTCE’s new role, the center will move to a larger facility in 2017. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 27 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Hyderabad India MTCI(Mobis Technical Center of India) Features of the Technical Center of India Mobis Technical Center of India (MTCI) is located in Hyderabad in India’s central inland region, also known as ‘India’s Silicon Valley’. The whole city serves as an R&D center for top tech companies and global carmakers, as well as a major hub for software engineers akin to Silicon Valley with the University of Hyderabad close by. Locally hired engineers who work at the MTCI not only have high levels of IT expertise, but are also able to communicate well with Korean engineers in English. Moreover, the time gap between Korea and India is only 3.5 hours, making it easy to exchange opinions. When it was founded in 2007, there were only 5 R&D staff members, but now the number has increased by more than 90 fold to about 450, enabling the center to specialize in software verification and development by utilizing strategic parts and components to match local conditions. Performance of the Technical Center of India The MTCI supports the development of multimedia products, including cameras, radars and audio systems, and Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS) software technologies. Established for the purpose of verifying automotive software, the center is responsible for developing and verifying the software used in Smart Cruise Control (SCC), the Lane Keeping Assistance System (LKAS), Smart Parking Assist System (SPAS), Airbag Control Unit (ACU) and Mobis Electronic Brake (MEB), Hyderabad, India leading to the issuance of the ISO 26262 (Functional Safety Standard) for major electronic parts and components. Also, the MTCI developed India’s first digital radio receiver which can be used anywhere in India together with the global automotive semiconductor company NXP in India. It greatly improved conditions for India’s radio broadcasting as existing FM broadcast bands were only receivable in 40% of the country. The India Digital Radio Broadcasting Association and the Indian government praised the achievement. 28 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Features of the Technical Center of China In order to support testing for automobile parts by the Hyundai Mobis Chinese subsidiary and its suppliers, the Shanghai Testing Center opened in 2003. It was followed by an R&D center and an R&D development team set up in Tianjin (2008) and Beijing (2012), respectively, aiming to provide support for technologies and improve the design quality of products manufactured locally. Later on, the company felt an integrated approach to Hyundai and Kia Motors and global clients was needed, which is why the Technical Center of China was established in Shanghai in November 2014 to create synergies with the Shanghai Testing Center Shanghai, China and ensure appropriate support is provided to global clients. Performance of the Technical Center of China Despite its short track record of only two years after integration, the Technical Center of China is making strenuous efforts to develop products to meet the specific local needs of Chinese consumers. In addition to designing equipment that meets local preferences for multimedia, cockpit and lamp products, the center is also in charge of monitoring and tuning functions of chassis, brake and steering related products. Also, taking into consideration the preferences of price-sensitive Chinese consumers, MTCC strives to provide high-quality products at reasonable prices to its clients. Moreover, the Shanghai Testing Center is contributing to enhancing the quality competitiveness of suppliers’ products, while also expanding win-win partnerships by actively supporting regular assurance testing for the mass production by suppliers of products destined for complete carmakers. Performance of tests supported for suppliers (Unit: cases) 2014 2015 2016 24,121 29,918 24,258 shanghai china MTCC(Mobis Technical Center of China) MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 29 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Material Issues Hyundai Mobis strives to become a global top tier producer of the 21st century by securing core technologies as growth engines for the future and expanding customer-oriented socially responsible management and environmental management, as well as pursuing win-win partnerships together with its suppliers. Most notably, we have made strenuous efforts to maximize human resource competencies that act as the driving force behind corporate growth, thereby respecting the cultural diversity and human rights of all employees. Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix P. 32 P. 40 P. 48 P. 52 P. 60 Future Core Customers Win-Win Employee Environmental Technology Satisfaction Partnership Diversity Management Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix 1 Future Core Technology Hyundai Mobis is focusing on its competencies to become a leading auto parts company by strengthening its global technological competitiveness. To achieve this, we expand our R&D base through continuous investments and recruit outstanding talent, as well as accelerate the advancement of technologies through technological exchanges with our suppliers. Hyundai Mobis has become a leading auto parts company with top-quality products by increasing R&D staff and making investments to secure technological competitiveness for developing key auto parts and future vehicles. Through these efforts, we will solidify the foundation for conducting R&D that ensures the manufacture of top-quality products for global markets. Number of R&D projects (Unit: cases) 1,117 Number of R&D staff (Unit: persons) 2,921 Future Core Technology Number of eco-friendly vehicle parts supplied (Unit: items) 128,450 Progress in 2016 2017+ Enhancing price competitiveness and strengthening global Securing next-generation ICT (autonomous driving, infotaincompetitiveness through proactive management ment, eco-friendly) technologies and differentiating existing market strategies Strengthening product competitiveness Enhancing global competitiveness ‌Internalizing core technologies and conducting research on next-generImproving R&D competencies ation technologies ‌Securing competitive advantage and continuous growth by strengthening global competitiveness 32 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix R&D Status Aiming to achieve the R&D vision of strengthening its globally compettechnology with a quality control center and a test base in place separately. itive technologies, Hyundai Mobis is conducting R&D by cementing its In addition, we have overseas technical centers in North America, Europe, vision of enhancing its global top tier R&D competitiveness by 2020 and India and China to enhance competitiveness by strengthening technological conducting research to strengthen the price competitiveness of chassis competencies regionally. Starting from 2016, we have begun tests for new and design parts, which are our key products, and differentiate itself with advanced technologies like DAS by opening the Hyundai Mobis High Tech autonomous driving, infotainment and eco-friendly technologies. To Green Technology Center on a 330,000 pyeong site in Seosan, Chungnam achieve this, we expand R&D investments annually, while also working with 14 test roads, including a high-speed test road and high-tech test road. hard to recruit research staff at home and abroad. Besides Seosan, Hyundai Mobis has set up test roads in Sweden, New Zealand and China, ensuring high-tech auto parts to meet specific local needs R&D Vision can be developed in multiple environments globally. Securing Global Top Tier R&D Classification Test roads Major evaluation activities for test roads Competitiveness by 2020 Overseas Arjeplog (Sweden, 500,000 pyeong) · ‌New advanced technologies including MEB/CBS/MDPS/EPB/DAS Technical center is a great place to work at and Wanaka (New Zealand, 30,000 pydevelop competitive products eong) · ‌Benchmarking and evaluating new technologies and products Heilongjing (China, 900,000 pyeong) · ‌‌Evaluated the credibility and clients’ Korea Seosan (Korea, 330,000 pyeong) sign off during the winter Securing [Completed in December of 2016] · ‌Strengthened the verification of new independent technologies, including test roads for technologies and new DAS (Driver Assistance System) strengthening price advanced technologies, etc. competitiveness Technology Cost Quality · Securing top global · Achieving target material · Strengthening market quality products and independent costs for advanced competitiveness technologies development products · Achieving zero engineering orders (EO) Hyundai Mobis Technical Center Mabuk is located within Yongin-si in Korea. It has played a leading role in Korea’s auto parts technologies by continuing to overcome challenge and pursue innovation. The Mabuk Technical Center is furnished with advanced equipment and research facilities, including an electromagnetic darkroom and airbag deployment testing lab. We also maintain the Uiwang Technical Center for the development of production Hyundai Mobis High Tech Green Technology in Seosan Car Model and Response by Type R&D Expenditures R&D Staff Number of car models Number of projects (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: persons) 1,117 695,683 2,921 623,169 2,683 893 2,532 492,700 732 79 87 96 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 33 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Developing Technologies through Cooperation with External Stakeholders Hyundai Mobis is improving its technological competencies through exinventions through our invention support programs, with a patent attorney changes with external stakeholders, including the government, academia providing consultations on the patent application process once a month. and suppliers. We receive advice on pending issues by identifying the latest Since 2012, Hyundai Mobis has been holding a company-wide contest for technology trends from academic experts at technology forums. In 2016, ideas related to future technologies in promotion of employee creativity. we held technology forums to discuss 15 cases involving the latest trends A total of 1,111 applications were received over the past five years and 100 in automotive technologies and reviewed theoretical approaches for 10 outstanding entries have won awards. The 2016 grand prize winner was a cases with professors both in Korea overseas. In addition, we held a Chief collimator for removing the effects of tunnel vision in a light receiving senTechnology Officer (CTO) forum to share future directions for technology sor, and received an award worth KRW 1 million. Hyundai Mobis will contindevelopment with our suppliers, while also strengthening cooperation by ue with this awards program to motivate more creative ideas and technolaccepting and reviewing proposals related to new technologies and techogy development from employees for future technologies, thereby leading niques. In 2016, 13 teams within the R&D headquarters shared key projects to the commercialization of new technologies. with suppliers, while also providing one-on-one consultations to screen technology proposals through on-site visits. We also actively carry out national projects. Through the provision of government funding (KRW 3,250 Status of support provided for Performance of intellectual million), Hyundai Mobis is currently participating in 26 national projects reemployee invention property rights filed domestically lated to EV advanced technology, reduced vehicle and component weight, and overseas new materials and DAS technology. Patent filing Patent registration (Unit: cases) 481 385 Supporting Employee Patents and Creativity Hyundai Mobis encourages all its employees, as well as its researchers, to 199 get involved in creative activities through a number of programs. Employ205 208 186 ees who file for or register patents are provided with transparent monetary incentives based on internal laws governing compensation for employee invention. Additional monetary rewards are offered when the registered 15 patents are used in our products or generate profits. The company awards teams that generate the best performance with monetary rewards on an Number Monetary Overseas Domestic Total of cases rewards annual basis, while providing motivation for employee engagement and supported (KRW 1 million) Hyundai Mobis’ International Standard Certifications and Plans for Electronic Components Classification 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Cyber-Security Cyber-Security Establishing cyber-security process CMMI L3 certification Verifying ISO 26262 ISO26262 SCC (ASIL B), ACU (ASIL D), MDPS (ASIL D) Expanding the ap(entire R&D products (SCC/LKAS/ LKAS (ASIL B) SPAS (ASIL B) plication of MEDPheadquarter) SPAS/ ACU/MDPS) based international standards ASPICE ICS products and ICS products (Obtaindevelopment ing 14 items of Level processes(Level 2) 2 certification) CMMI Reobtaining ASPICE L2 Verifying ISO 26262 the Level 3 process (MEDP) certification (DCSD) certification (3-year term) Acquiring certifications for international standard SW development process: CMMI/ ASPICE/ ISO 34 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Developing Green Car Components Climate change and natural disasters caused by global warming have alDeveloping Key Components for Green Vehicles ready affected our daily lives, resulting in concerns about sustainable In line with the changes implemented by complete carmakers, Hyundai growth. This situation has encouraged many countries from around the Mobis came up with the following development strategies to take the lead world to strengthen environmental regulations. In response to such efforts, in green car components. First, we are striving to reduce engine load by Hyundai Mobis strives to ensure a better future for everyone by improving utilizing a 48V power system. Second, we are developing various green car engine efficiency through developing green car components with highly-eftechnologies, including water-cooled battery systems and chargers for efficient and lightweight technologies, as well as developing a variety of techficient thermal management of high-capacity batteries installed in plug-in nologies for electric drive components in green cars. hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV), as well as hydrogen supply devices used in fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEV). The Future Direction of Green Car Technologies Acceleration of global warming due to increased CO2 emissions raised the 48V System for Enhancing the Engine Efficiency of need for the development of green car technologies. As a result, governInternal Combustion Engines ments around the world have introduced stricter permissible emission The 48V power supply system consists of starting generators for engine restartlevels to curtail CO2 emissions and energy consumption, so that CO2 emising and generation and auxiliary driving force, converters that supply power sions from vehicles are lowered to 95g/km by 2020 and 70g/km by 2025 in to 12V electronic components, and batteries that supply 48V electric energy. the EU. Also, the U.S. has strengthened its target for average fuel economy In 2015, Hyundai Mobis developed a 10kW-class integrated starting generator, from 35.5mpg (15.1km/l) by 2016 to 54.5mpg (23.2km/l) by 2025, as well as a 2.5kW-class bi-directional converter (48V↔12V), and a 450Wh-class 48V lithpushing for lowered CO2 emissions of 107g/km by 2025. The permissible ium battery system. Air-cooled chillers are utilized by starting generators with CO2 levels for China and Korea are set at 117g/km and 97g/km, respectively. cooling fans installed in the motor rotation axis, with no need for a separate Stricter regulations are calling for the development of green vehicles and cooling loop. Converters have been developed to enable 12V lead-acid batterimprovements in the efficiency of internal combustion engines. In response, ies for 48V supplies and step-up operation, so that power is supplied to start complete carmakers are opting to develop diverse technologies for green engines in emergency situations. The application of this system will provide cars such as electric drive systems and downsizing, while also working on better fuel efficiency than a 12V Stop & Go System because it can stop and improving average fuel economy. restart the engine regardless of whether the car has stopped or not, while also enable driving torque assistance and regenerative braking. Compared to the high-voltage hybrid technology, the new system is a low-cost hybrid technology that can minimize changes made to a vehicle’s powertrain. Green Vehicles Using Hyundai Mobis Technologies Hybrid Electric Fuel Cell 2017 Ioniq Niro Plug-In Azera K5 Wagon Ioniq (18MY) Hybrid Hybrid Hybrid Plug-In Hybrid Ioniq Hybrid / 2016 Plug-In Hybrid (Exclusive Model) Niro (Small SUV) K5 Plug-In K7 Hybrid China K5 Ioniq (Exclusive Model) 2015 Sonata Plug-In Hybrid New K5 China Sonata 2014 Sonata Soul 2013 Azera K7 Tucson 2012 Ultra-low floor CNG buses 2011 Sonata K5 Ray 2010 BlueOn 2009 Elantra Forte MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 35 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Hydrogen Supply Devices Hydrogen supply devices provide hydrogen, the fuel source of FCEVs and Making Use of Diverse Items for Green Vehicles control the output of fuel cell stacks by adjusting the hydrogen flow rate. Battery Systems The devices make use of a technology that reuses the unreacted hydrogen Battery systems consist of battery packs that supply high-voltage electric in the fuel cell stacks, thereby raising the hydrogen consumption rate. Hyunenergy to vehicles, while the battery controller protects and controls the dai Mobis has now successfully developed 100 kW-class hydrogen supplier battery pack and battery. This makes battery packs a core part with a signifdevices that realize high power density with a modularized design, while icant influence on the mileage and fuel economy of vehicles. We enhanced enhancing the efficiency of the fuel cell system through integrated control our battery system to lighten the weight of battery packs and utilized a botof the hydrogen supply. By utilizing a hydrogen recirculation compressor, tom case by welding two pieces to the lower cover of the battery system, the system achieved a 95 percent hydrogen consumption rate. In 2015, high to enable installation in IONIQ EVs. Additionally, we are utilizing high-capressure water supplies became possible, which enhanced energy power pacity batteries to increase driving range for electric vehicles and developdensity in modularizing hydrogen supply devices and stacks for joint dising water-cooled thermal management technologies that use fluids from tributors, with plans for utilization in future FCEVs. air-cooling system for enhanced efficiency, which will be installed in future car models. Battery Chargers Battery chargers use supply voltage (AC 110/220V) to charge high-voltage batteries installed in EVs and PHEVs. They are divided into 3.3kW-class and 6.6kW-classes to meet domestic and overseas power standards, with interface functions for electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) and international standards (SAE J1772) adopted by different manufacturers. The power supply control circuits for chargers consist of a boost converter and a high-efficiency buck-boost converter that control other functions besides charging. Hyundai Mobis succeeded in the mass production of compact-sized, lightweight battery chargers with higher efficiency by enhancing power circuits and downsizing/modularizing electronic components. In 2016, we utilized 6.6kW-class and 3.3kW-class chargers in IONIQ electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. Due to the installation of increased high-voltage batteries in PHEVs and EVs to ensure improved mileage, the need to reduce battery charging time has gone up. In order to meet such demands, we plan to develop battery chargers of 10kW-class and above. Hydrogen Supply Devices 36 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Autonomous Driving Technology In January 2016, the world’s leading auto parts companies and carmakers The level 2 system is expected to be installed in more cars starting with the showcased their innovative technologies for future vehicles at the Consumer HAD system used in the EQ900. Many global carmakers have also begun Electronic Show held in Las Vegas to attract worldwide attention. The asmass producing similar systems, and they are expected to be commercialtounding speed of technological progress was evident from how auto parts ized after 2020. The functions of autonomous driving systems for level 3 and companies and carmakers introduced new automotive technologies at a above will be introduced first on highways, and become widespread in the consumer electronics show instead of a motor show, resulting in a blurring market after 2025. of the boundaries between the auto industry and IT industry. Experts predict that car models with partially automated driving will be possible by 2020, with cars equipped with full self-driving technology appearing by 2025. In this regard, Hyundai Mobis is accelerating its development of autonomous Developing Autonomous Driving Technology for driving technology. Since 2014, we have developed autonomous driving sysHyundai Mobis tems and autonomous parking systems with functions such as pedestrian Hyundai Mobis has been developing factor technology to realize autonomous detection, vehicle overtaking, automatic braking in emergency situations driving technology. Car control technology is already a reality in SCC or LKAS and acceleration or braking to keep pace with traffic. used in cars being mass produced, while we have almost completed individual The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) defined sensor and sensor convergence technologies for recognizing vehicles nearby autonomous driving system into five levels (level 0~level 4). Currently, the and the surrounding environment. Also, we are developing the technology functions of up to level 1 are available in mass produced car models, and for calculating information about vehicle location by using GPS and high-prethe HDA (Highway Driving Assist) system found in level 2 is used in the Hyuncision maps, and V2X technology that sends and receives information about dai Genesis EQ900 model. There are no cars being mass produced equipped surrounding vehicles and infrastructure. Moreover, we are currently conductwith functions of level 3 or above, but Hyundai Mobis and many auto parts ing research on driving strategies to ensure autonomous driving is possible companies and carmakers are in the process of developing them. under all environmental conditions and on all roadways. The autonomous driving system and unmanned vehicle system can easiUnlike the existing DAS (Driver Assistance System), the autonomous driving ly be confused as being the same, but are in fact different. An unmanned system needs omnidirectional object detection. For example, the SCC (Smart vehicle system is used to carry out specific roles that may be dangerous, Cruise Control) system maintains a certain speed and distance from cars in inconvenient or unsafe without human input. In contrast to this, since the autonomous driving system drives the vehicle automatically on behalf of front by using radar installed in the front of the vehicle, and the LKAS (Lane drivers or passengers, it has to take into consideration issues of driver safety Keeping Assist System) controls the steering of the vehicle if it leaves the lane and convenience. by using cameras in the front. Compared to these, the autonomous driving Autonomous Driving Technology Development by stage Level 0 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Danger warning Driving assistance Driving automaPartial (limited) Full autonomous (specified event) tion under the autonomous driving driver’s judgment driving • Hands, feet: regularly control • Hands or feet: free ・Hands, feet: free ・Hands, feet: free ・Full self-driving automation • Eyes: regularly monitor • Eyes: regularly monitor ・Eyes: regularly monitor ・Eyes: limited monitoring ・Hands, feet and eyes: free ✓ LDWS(Lane Depature Warning ✓ SCC(Smart Cruise Control): Detect ✓ HDA(Highway Driving Assist): System): Warn the driver if the the preceding vehicle by using radar Provide integrated control to vehicle leaves the lane without to automatically control acceleration automatically keep the vehicle giving indication of direction and deceleration in lane and a safe distance ✓ BCW(Blind Spot Detection): ✓ LKAS(Lane Keeping Assist System): from vehicles in front when Detect obstacles in a blind spot When unintentional lane departures cruising on the highway during in the front and back of the veoccur due to the driver dozing at the long distance driving or during hicle to warn the driver wheel, the vehicle is kept in the lane traffic congestion through a steering wheel control system MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 37 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix system has to control driving conditions by receiving information on objects in technology for omnidirectional objects (vehicles, obstacles and lanes) using the front, back and sides. Therefore, it is necessary to utilize technologies that information from the front cameras and radar and rear lateral and front lateral integrate information from diverse sensors and extract useful information. radar. This technology is expected to be mass produced soon. It is also necesHyundai Mobis has mass produced convergence technology for objects in the sary to have a system platform suitable for autonomous driving, and we are front (vehicles and pedestrians) using information from the radar and cameras currently developing the overall system architecture (hardware and software) installed in the front, as well as completed the development of convergence to make autonomous driving systems a reality. Composition of Autonomous Front view camera Driving Technology V2X (stereo camera) High-precision map • ‌Invisible target recognition • ‌Lanes, vehicles, pedestrians (crossroad, pre-preceding • ‌Existing navigation: existing vehicle, etc.) • ‌Speed limit signs road information • ‌Utilizing road infrastructure • ‌traffic lights/traffic signs • ‌Precision map: abstraction of information geographical features of road • ‌Speed bumps/stop lines shape and lane width • ‌Autonomous driving with V2X • ‌Distinguishing pedestrians/ connection reference objects GPS • Positioning ‌ information on vehicle location • Existing precision: 5m ~ 50m Rear lateral radar • Required precision: 50cm↓ Front lateral radar 360 degree radar • ‌Rear lateral object recognition Forward-looking radar Laser scanner • ‌Omnidirectional moving target detection • ‌Medium and long distance • ‌Short distance obstacle vehicle recognition precise recognition • ‌Partial geographic feature • ‌Geographic feature recognition recognition (curb, wall, guard-rail) Reference of Autonomous Driving Technology Classification Driver Assistance System (DAS) Autonomous driving Recognition targets Stationary Full 360 degree driving condition recognition, including speed bumps, objects Euro NCAP 2018 Euro NCAP 2020 pedestrian crossings, road surface loss, falling rocks/falling objects, tunnels, Lanes, signs Boundary line of road guardrails, soundproof walls, sinkholes, etc. Moving objects Vehicle rear, lamps, day and night pedestrians, bicycles, vehicle side, Wheelchair, large and small animals, one-seater electric vehicle, baby carriage, motorbikes etc. Sensing scope Rear radar Front radar Front lateral radar Radar AVM Radar MFC (front camera) Fusion Fusion Fusion / single Fusion Representative system SCC, FCA, LKA HDA2 ('19~) HAD ('21~) Complete autonomous driving (~'30) Function (NHTSA automation standard) Warning and driving assistance Driving automation under the driver’s Partial (limited) autonomous driving Full autonomous driving (levels 0,1) judgment (Level 2) (Level 3) (Level 4) Driver conditions Hands or feet: temporarily free Hands, feet: temporarily free Hands, feet: free Hands, feet, eyes: free Eyes: always watching Eyes: always watching Eyes: temporarily free ※M  FC : Multi Function Camera, SCC : Smart Cruise Control, FCA : Front Collision Avoidance, LKA : Lane Keeping Assist, HDA : Highway Driving Assist, HAD : Highway Autonomous Driving 38 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix > The first CES Korea’s First Auto Parts Company to Participate at CES 2016 Hyundai Mobis was Korea’s first auto parts company to participate at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) held in Las Vegas for four days on January 6-9, 2016. At CES 2016, we introduced the DAS (Driving Assistance System), an innovative automotive technology for the future, under the concept of becoming a lifetime partner in the field of automobiles and beyond. Since it is automotive electronics technology that will make autonomous driving a reality, we have to acquire the necessary technology to secure future growth and increase added value. Hyundai Mobis unveiled the following seven DAS technologies at CES 2016. List of Products Smart Cruise Control (SCC) is a product that maintains a certain speed and distance from the preceding vehicle to automatically control acceleration and deceleration without Showcased SCC a driver. The SCC was first installed in the first-generation Genesis, and currently an at the CES 2016 upgraded advanced version is being installed in Genesis and EQ900 models. Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB) is a smart driver assistance system that auAEB tomatically applies emergency braking when it detects an imminent collision, first installed on Kia Motors’ new K5 model that launched in 2015. The Lane Keeping Assistance System (LKAS) is a steering wheel control system that LKAS automatically warns the driver when unintentional lane departures occur without the use of a turn signal indicator, as well as automatically controlling the steering wheel. Active Blind Spot Detection (Active BSD) detects dangers in blind spots in the front and back Active of the vehicle to warn the driver, while also controlling the steering wheel when a collision is BCW detectedtopreventtrafficaccidents.Forexample,ifanothervehicleisdetectedintheblindspot area, the system uses this information to warn the driver with a flashing light on the side mirror. An accident may occur when driving at night if the high beams from cars driving in the LED opposite direction are too bright, which is why the LED matrix beam blocks light coming Matrix Beam from vehicles in the front or the opposite direction through sensors. This intelligent lamp prevents dangerous glare. Cross Traffic Assistance (CTA) is a roadside assistance system for cars that detects other vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians when driving through intersections. If it deCTA tects danger, the CTA warns the driver about the danger to prevent accidents, with automatic braking and steering. The Remote Smart Parking Assistance System (SPAS) is an unmanned parking techRemote nology that guides drivers easily into parking spaces by providing information via SPAS smartphones. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 39 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix 2 Customer-Oriented Management Hyundai Mobis focuses all of its competencies on achieving customer satisfaction that transcends expectations. To do this, we established our top priorities as follows: realizing defect-free quality, ensuring the highest possible customer satisfaction, complying with global standards and reinforcing our suppliers’ quality competitiveness. CS 1 Million Index Improvement Rate (domestic) (Unit: %) 21 Number of replacement parts for 223 car models (Unit: million items) 2.36 Customer-Oriented Management Total hours of training for CS staff (Unit: hour) 482 Progress in 2016 2017+ Improving quality indexes in accordance with quality-first policy Establishing Hyundai Mobis quality standard (Q-Standard) Strengthening responses to customers by facilitating global quality Strengthening competencies for preliminary verification of quality centers Upgrading the smart quality management system Establishing a field-oriented quality management system 40 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Quality Management Based on ened global quality competencies by expanding quality centers located a Customer-First Policy abroad including in the Middle East (Dubai). In addition, we will focus on reinforcing quality competitiveness through our recently constructed test In order to provide top-quality products and services, Hyundai Mobis has foroadway in Seosan, Chungnam. By establishing multiple test roadways, we cused all of its competencies on achieving its most important tasks: realizing plan to upgrade the quality of products with evaluations conducted using defect-zero quality, ensuring top-quality customer satisfaction, establishing actual vehicles. processes in line with global standards, and reinforcing suppliers’ quality competitiveness. In 2002, Hyundai Mobis was the first Korean company to earn the ISO/TS 16949 certificate, the quality management system (QMS) Performance of Quality Improvement for international carmakers, to establish the basis for achieving zero-defect In 2016, Hyundai Mobis prepared for 10 million vehicles produced globalquality processes. As of the end of 2016, the company completed acquiring ly with ‘C&C 300’ as a quality catchphrase. The ‘C&C’ refers to change and the ISO/TS 16949 QMS certificate for 30 of its production sites around the challenge and ‘3’ refers to reducing costs by 33% within 3 years and develworld. In line with the transformation to a new standard –IATF 16949 QMS as oping products that rank at least third in market share. Also, ‘00’ refers to of the end of 2016, we are preparing for the transformation of global producachieving 100ppm in terms of the CS 1 million index and ensuring 100% tion sites in phases by 2018. In addition, we established a risk-based process consistency for tracking inventory levels, and ‘0’ refers to achieving zero that meets global standards from product development to quality assurdefects to eliminate waste and inefficiency (reoccurrence, non-operation, ance as part of our efforts to improve preventive actions taken. In addition, defects and disposal cost). we set up overseas quality centers in major automotive hubs, including the Through company-wide quality improvement efforts, Hyundai Mobis greatly U.S. (LA), China (Shanghai), Germany (Frankfurt) and India (Delhi), ensuring improved its CS 1 million index, which stood at 1,727 in Korea and 1,279 the quality issues of locally manufactured products are controlled. Overseas overseas in 2014, to 1,246 in Korea and 418 overseas in 2016. Also, we scored quality centers not only improve quality through customized assurance that 18.3 points for the same year in the IQS (Initial Quality Study) rating in the meets local demands and market conditions, but also confirm the quality of North American market, considered the world’s largest automobile market, new cars and analyze quality issues that occur in the field. showing an improvement of 7.6 points from 25.9 points in 2014. In this way, In order to promptly resolve problems that arise from overseas sites and the performance of our quality improvement initiative led to the stabilizaimprove quality to meet specific local needs, Hyundai Mobis has strengthtion of our product quality level, with our plant operation ratio improving from 92.9% in 2014 to 98% in 2016, resulting in a cost reduction of KRW 9 Quality Indexes billion due to improvements in operation ratio. Also, Hyundai Mobis has made efforts to improve not only quantitative numJD Power’s quality inspection of the North American region bers, but also reflect customer demands through its products. A representIQS (Initial Quality Study, points) 15 %↑ 8 %↑ ative example is the test roadway for driving cars that was completed in the VDS (Vehicle Dependability Study, points) second half of 2016 to test the overall function of vehicles. Although unusual 42.5 38.8 38.9 in the field of auto parts, we made the decision to offer top-quality products to our customers. Through these efforts, we established a system for verify21.5 ing our products using actual cars driven by testing experts. Going forward, 18.3 25.9 we will enhance our product quality by evaluating products in actual vehicle tests under diverse environments. 2014 2015 2016 ※ IQS (Initial Quality Study) shows the number of problems per 100 vehicles experienced in the first 90 days of ownership, and the VDS (Vehicle Dependability Study) indicates the rate of problems per 100 vehicles experienced in the first three years after purchase. CS 1 million index RS 1 million index Domestic (cases) Overseas (cases) 21%↑ 53%↑ Domestic (cases) Overseas (cases) 23%↑ 33%↑ 4,398 1,727 1,569 3,139 1,246 4,009 2,412 1,279 418 2,133 882 1,423 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ※ The CS 1 million index is a market quality indicator that indicates the number of claims made for ※ The RS 1 million index is a market quality indicator that represents the number of claims made every 1 million vehicles in the first 90 days of ownership. for every 1 million vehicles in the first 10-12 months of ownership. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 41 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Logistics for Higher Customer Value Proactive Field-Oriented Quality Management Hyundai Mobis is obliged to provide end-users with timely aftermarket Hyundai Mobis aim to achieve zero-defect production quality by service (AS) parts for vehicles sold by carmaker clients. Under the relevant preemptively managing factors that might cause problems by statistically Korean laws governing the industry, the Consumer Protection Act and the managing such problems. Since enhancing durability has been a major Automobile Management Act, all AS parts are required to be available on challenge for automotive parts, we analyze and improve components with the market for at least eight years after a vehicle model has been phased weak durability and reflect the results in technology standards, while also out. In compliance with this, Hyundai Mobis supplies AS parts to Hyundai conducting intensive production line checking to improve field practices. and Kia Motors vehicles both in the domestic and overseas markets by In addition, Hyundai Mobis’ Quality Council, presided over by top drawing on its vast distribution network after rigorous tests and quality management, ensures the systematic management of quality innovation. assurance programs are conducted to ensure the optimal functioning of Besides daily quality control meetings held to review quality improvements various vehicle models until the end of each model’s lifecycle. As of the made, we also have monthly meetings to share quality innovation tips end of 2016, approximately 61 million Hyundai and Kia Motors vehicles and review future directions for innovation. The agenda items discussed were on roads around the world, with Hyundai Mobis supplying 2.36 and deliberated on in the meetings are reflected in company-wide quality million AS parts for 223 different models. Although customer demand innovation drives. Hyundai Mobis has established systems that prevent for AS parts is always unpredictable, it is necessary to have an efficient quality issues arising in different plants, such as early warning systems, logistics system with accurate demand forecasts to ensure timely supply. defect tracking management systems and human error prevention systems. As a result, Hyundai Mobis has optimized its logistics operations with a If the system detects any defects, immediate actions can be taken, while a standardized system which improves the accuracy of demand analysis QR code ensures other types of parts are not included in the process. As for through a next-generation system for demand forecasts. In addition, we key components, the automation of important processes reduces mistakes have an intelligent warehousing system in logistics operations to allow that might occur during processing and assembly. In particular, we aim to real-time monitoring of all procedures, from storage to shipment of achieve zero-defect production quality by preemptively managing factors AS parts. We aim to provide high-quality supplies to our customers by that may cause problems by statistically managing such problems. Also, upgrading our demand forecasts based on actual demand and big data. in order to systematically improve execution for integrated management and quality management, we established QMS 2.0 as a next-generation quality management system, thereby enhancing the quality of activities in Aftermarket Service Parts Supply Process a smart environment. In addition, we make strenuous efforts to improve basic quality by conducting on-site inspection and problem analysis of Complete carmaker plants suppliers that cause repeated quality problems. Manufacturing Hyundai Mobis’ plants sites Suppliers Strengthening Overseas Quality Centers Hyundai Mobis manages quality problems that occur locally through its Parts sales Repair Agencies overseas quality centers located in major automobile markets. Overseas offices shops quality centers are improving quality through verification of specific local Korea needs and customer demands, as well as strengthening their competencies Logistics Consumers centers Overseas to verify the quality of new cars and analyze quality problems that occur on site. Moreover, Hyundai Mobis is planning to expand overseas quality Automotive parts subsidAgencies Dealers centers to immediately tackle various quality issues and differentiate iaries quality control by region. We plan to strengthen our global quality competencies by expanding overseas quality centers in South America and ※ Regions without overseas agencies such as China and India supply parts directly to dealers through automotive parts subsidiaries. the Middle East from a medium-to long-term perspective. ※ Regions without overseas automotive parts subsidiaries such as Africa, Central and South America and parts of Asia-Pacific supply parts directly to agencies through logistics centers. 42 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Established a Next-Generation Demand Forecast System Domestic and Overseas Parts Sales Network (Unit: centers) (GIOS) in 2016 Classification 2014 2015 2016 In 2016, Hyundai Mobis established a next-generation demand forecast system Korea Parts sales offices 23 23 23 (GIOS) that integrates demand forecasts from 15 overseas subsidiaries and Logistics centers 4 4 4 23 domestic offices that supply AS parts. This system predicts the demand Service parts sales teams 43 42 41 for AS parts of Hyundai and Kia Motors domestically and internationally Agencies 1,976 1,940 1,856 to control the entire production and distribution processes, making it an Overseas Automotive parts 14 15 15 accumulator of know-how on supply processes for AS parts. In other words, subsidiaries the system uses Hyundai Mobis’ know-how and high-level data, such as deep Parts Distribution 49 51 55 learning approaches for artificial intelligence, distribution data for Hyundai Centers(PDC) and Kia Motors around the world with information like the number of parts Regional 2 2 2 Distribution verified, demand supply patterns for more than 500,000 AS parts, demand Centers(RDC) forecasts for parts according to the age of vehicles by using the big data Branches and offices 1 1 1 of vehicle driving information. As for overseas subsidiaries, we improved Agencies 477 460 535 demand forecast data so that local dealers’ conditions are well reflected, Dealers 11,262 12,929 14,241 while also increasing customer satisfaction by upgrading the accuracy of demand forecasts with additional information like inventory and sales data of AS parts and call center information from dealers around the world. Customer Satisfaction System Hyundai Mobis derived diverse benefits from the demand forecast system as of 2016, including a drop in unnecessary domestic inventory by 39%, Hyundai Mobis has strived to assist customers in emergency situations and cutting unnecessary inventory for export by 10%, and reducing order fulfill requests by operating a customer service center 365 days a year. In cancellation ratios and export logistics costs. particular, the customer consultation system (VOC) for prompt customer response is linked to the parts operation system (SMART), so that parts not Composition of System found in a particular region are delivered within two days normally from a worksite closest to the client. Applying deep learning approaches for Creating pools for Mobis LFDP* artificial intelligence (about 1,500) Also, in order to improve customer-oriented service, we conduct a satisfaction survey for wholesale and retail customers every year and Creating demand patterns that best Demand patterns on demand enhance customer satisfaction levels by improving areas with low suit demand forecasts by using forecasts for parts (500,000) artificial intelligence algorithms satisfaction levels. We also continuously strengthened our customer ▼ Learning Demand Patterns service (CS) training for customer contact points with 482 hours of training ▼ held annually, an increase of 66 hours compared to the previous year. Pools for demand patterns most CS related training was provided not only for CS staff, but also employees suitable for Hyundai Mobis (1,500) in other positions, so that they received a total of 482 hours of CS-related Dynamic training, up from 416 hours for the previous year. Classfication Optimizing the system with selflearning *LFDP(Long-term Forecast Demand Pattern) Status of the Supply of Replacement Parts Items Car models Applying real distribution using Forecasting demands through optimal information on the number of parts demand patterns 2,363,546 assurance 2,271,617 2,143,378 Estimating the ratio of parts installed Conducting demand forecasts in different vehicles by using big data through optimal patterns by from the Ministry of Land, Transport applying methods proposed by and Maritime Affairs Amazon and Netflix • Variation and fitness standard Selecting forecast target (interchangeable parts) Demand Distribution of Parts Studying pattern • Trends of demand patterns classification (seasonality, intermittency, etc.) 202 213 223 Proposing forecast • Exploring outliers based on model MAPE (error ratio)<0.4 standard • Calculating EMD based on Results of Final Forecast Bayesian mixture model 2014 2015 2016 MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 43 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Status of CS Related Training Classification Contents 2015 2016 Number of sessions Number of hours Number of sessions Number of hours Head office, logistics center CS-related lectures for new employees through open recruitment of university 23 42 23 46 graduates Parts agencies VOC manual training, CS-related training and related programs for agency CEOs 35 195 18 46 Parts sales offices and parts CS-related training, CS leader course, customer service skill improvement 58 179 124 390 teams course and other programs for parts sales offices Total 116 416 165 482 ExpandingOurClientBasebyReinforcing Global Competencies Besides our traditional major clients, Hyundai and Kia Motors, we focus on achieving sustainable growth through diversifying our client base globally. In doing this, we provide support for stable production by our clients in various regions and concentrate on making R&D investments under our differentiated strategies to meet specific local needs. Through these efforts, we supply our products to global clients, including Chrysler, GM, Daimler, Volkswagen, Mitsubishi, Subaru and Mazda. Moreover, PSA technology conference we hold technology shows and conferences for our clients to improve understanding of Hyundai Mobis’ technologies and products. As a result, Hyundai Mobis received US$ 1 billion in orders from global clients in 2016. Status of Global Clients U.S. Chassis modules, head and rea lamps, LCD modules Parking brake systems (DIH), automatic occupant sensors (AOS), integrated center stacks (ICS) Japan Europe Head lamps, D-Audio Rear and fog lamps Rear combination lamps Daytime running lamps, rear lamps Audio, intelligent battery sensor (IBS) Integrated center stacks (ICS) CHMSL(Center High Mounted Stop Lamp) China Parking brake systems (DIH), integrated center stacks (ICS) EPB, air suspension Integrated center stacks (ICS) 44 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix > CASE_1 Improving Customer Convenience through Technological Perfection Wristband-Type Smart Key System The technological development of automobile keys started off with a mechanical key, followed by an electronic lock that opened and closed doors by remote control and the current smart key system that automatically detects the driver by using radio waves. Going forward, it is forecast that car keys will be included in smart phones, which MP3 players, digital cameras and game devices obsolete. In this way, the wristband-type smart key is a wearable car key that starts the car as well as opens and closes the trunk without needing pressing a button from a distance. The key also makes it possible to check one’s health by measuring heart rate when sleeping and exercising in the same manner as a wearable fitness tracking device. Individual control Integrating functions (SMK+BCM+TPMS) and Strengthening ICT linked strengthening convenient functions convenience BCM TPMS IBU RSPA Fingerprint recognition NFC integrated Fitness control Security+Gateway SMK SMK SMK device 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 ~ Fitness control device SW Fitness status BLE Stress and logic (Bluetooth Low Energy) drowsiness communication detection using Driver heart rate Emergency status variability state decision information Heart rate / logic Output performance Fitness HW status information BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) CAN communication communication module MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 45 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Light-weight > CASE_2 Automotive Lightweighting of improve fuel economy by approximately 6%, with emissions of Emissions, Fuel Economy and NOx reduced by 8.8% and CO2 and HC reduced by 4.5% and 2.5%, Functions respectively. Also, acceleration and steering are improved by 8% Developing FEM carriers and 6%, respectively, as well as the braking distance shortened by 5% and the durability of chassis parts increased 1.7 fold after weight reduction. In this way, lightweighting has many benefits, Existing specification Development specification but carmakers have been hesitant to participate in the trend them plastic (PA6-GF30) steel plastic (PA6-GF30) Continuous fiber composite materials because cars become heavier if parts are added to meet con(PA6-CF/GF) sumer demands for safety and convenience. However, Hyundai Mobis has worked toward developing advanced technology and achieving mass production in line with the lightweight material trend. Many cars, including the Hyundai Sonata, Grandeur and Santa Fe, now incorporate aluminum materials in some chassis Hybrid type, steel+plastic Full plastic type module parts (lower arm, knuckle, etc.), with mass production of lightweight parts using advanced high-strength steel and highThere is a global trend toward stricter environmental regulations strength cast iron. In 2016, Hyundai Mobis achieved outstanding for vehicles, which is expected to become even stricter after the latest manipulation of fuel economy and emissions scandals in results from research on high-strength continuous fiber composEurope and Japan. In order to reduce energy consumption and ite materials to replace steel. Through these efforts, we developed toxic air pollutant emissions, regulations will improve fuel econ25% lighter FEM carriers. Going forward, we will focus all of our omy per liter by 2020, to reach 24.3km in Korea, 26.5km in Europe, competencies on R&D related to diverse lightweight technolo18.8km in the U.S. and 20.3km in Japan. Vehicles will be prohibitgies, including extended application of aluminum and magneed from being sold in the country concerned unless they meet the sium parts, dissimilar metal bonding, high-strength composite new standards. In general, a 10% reduction of vehicle weight will materials and the bonding of metal and high molecular materials. > Advanced CASE_3 Upgrading Internal Parts Using Lights Light-Transmitting Synthetic Leather Due to the technological standardization of the global auto inment. Hyundai Mobis has used not only light sources for border dustry, a huge change has been seen in materials. In particular, lighting, but also optical fiber and transparent high molecular technologies for making plastic parts with softer surfaces or promaterials to develop technologies that use the surface itself as ducing luxury leather car seats are already being used in marketing a source of light. Besides the hard surface of parts, we incorpoto appeal to customer emotions. The recent trend of vehicle parts rated expensive and soft leather in diverse display screens. Also, and concept cars released or introduced at motor shows stress the technology is not only used to improve interior components, but importance of three-dimensional, emotion-focused design. also contribute to securing driver safety. If an obstacle suddenly Many luxury cars across the globe have dashboards that no appears in front of the car when autonomous driving is activated, longer feature a hard wooden feeling but instead use LED lights the entire IP panel surface in front of the driver’s seat can light up, for border lighting to create a luxurious indoor light environwhich is the best way of effectively warning the driver of a hazard. 46 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Ferrite Core > CASE_4 Localization of Ferrite Core through Win-Win Partnership with SMEs Localizing Ferrite Core Used in LDC Transformers and Inductors The battery systems of green cars use 270V or 360V high-voltage batteries. In order to use high-voltage energy in vehicles components such as head lamps, audio and AVN devices, it is necessary to lower the voltage to 12 volts, which is why a transformer is used to change voltage. The inductor inside the transformer changes the energy state from alternating to direct current. In short, the inductor is a coil and the area covering up the coil is called the core. Until now, we imported cores from Japan, but Hyundai Mobis recently succeeded in the localization of core production. Compared to competing Japanese products, our core has improved the loss ratio by 10%, as well as reduced production costs by approximately 10%. Currently, Hyundai Mobis’ domestic core products are used in Sonata hybrid cars, with plans for use in other hybrid vehicles starting from 2017. Transformer Inductor Energy loss ratio Price 100 Parts 90 Ferrite Core Existing Developed Existing Developed ER4703 ER6028 product product product product Transformer / Inductor (LF HEV) Reducing energy loss ratio and improving price competitiveness MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 47 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix 3 Win-Win Partnership The quality and technology of suppliers that supply more than 95% of all auto parts are directly linked with Hyundai Mobis’ competitiveness. Hyundai Mobis has established detailed policies that include enhancing suppliers’ competitiveness and expanding practical win-win partnerships to offer practical support to all of its suppliers. Moreover, we have strengthened cooperation by adopting a fair trade compliance program and providing benefits to primary suppliers that support secondary and tertiary suppliers, as well as helping suppliers so that they can secure global competitiveness. Number of primary suppliers (Number of companies, domestic) 859 Amount of financial support for suppliers (Unit: KRW 100 million) 1,283 Win-Win Partnership Number of agency CEOs who participated in Business Academy (Unit: persons) 150 Progress in 2016 2017+ Establish the quality improvement system for suppliers Strengthen the communication with suppliers and spread the culture of shared growth Enhance the evaluation system through distributing guidebooks that assess suppliers Upgrade the performance management system for win-win partnerships (Establish an integrated management system and a website) Strengthen the support for secondary suppliers Expand training on quality and technology for suppliers 48 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Systematic Supplier Management Support Measures for Strengthening Policies Suppliers’ Competitiveness In order to ensure win-win partnerships with suppliers, Hyundai Mobis is operating diverse programs aimed at enhancing suppliers’ competitiveness and expanding practical win-win partnerships. We have integrated separate Providing Technical Support and Pursuing Overseas division-level initiatives into a company-wide shared campaign called Seven Expansion Beautiful Pledges, allowing Hyundai Mobis to adopt a more systematic approach in supporting secondary and tertiary suppliers. Also, we are currently Hyundai Mobis has contributed in improving its suppliers’ technological developing MCOMS, a system which allows our primary and secondary/tercompetitiveness through the transfer of testing and evaluation technologies tiary suppliers to get easy access to our mutual growth initiatives and profor in-house infrastructure, while also filing for joint patent rights through gress. For instance, we carry out biannual in-house evaluations of suppliers’ the joint development of original technologies and royalty-free licenses of product quality control, environmental management system certifications its domestic patent rights. In addition, we support our suppliers’ attendance (ISO 14001), human rights practices, safety control at work-sites, business at international exhibitions to explore new markets and increase sales, inethics, and mutual growth initiatives between primary and secondary/ cluding full payment for attending the exhibition including fees for renting tertiary suppliers. Based on the evaluation results, we provide support for and installing exhibition booths and providing consultations for buyers, them in addressing the issues which need to be addressed as well as other contributing to increasing orders and expanding global operations. In 2016, shortcomings. Also, we help to enhance our suppliers’ competitiveness by ten SMEs that signed fair transaction agreements with Hyundai Mobis were strengthening relationships between suppliers, including providing benefits given a chance to attend the Global TransporTech (GTT) and international to primary suppliers that support secondary and tertiary suppliers. exhibitions for SMEs (KOAA Show). Besides these, we set up supplier booths In 2015, we published a guidebook and manual on evaluation results by busiand showcased related products, as well as establishing a base for exploring ness type to share the evaluation criteria of all our domestic and overseas supnew markets by holding consultations for overseas buyers. pliers. In order to ensure the accuracy, clarity, objectivity and fairness of the R&D Partnership Programs guidebook’s details, we referred to the ISO/TS 16949 (2009 requirement) certification, our client’s demands, and the component development procedure, Index while also including our suppliers’ best practices to be used for their internal Sharing of Share Hyundai Mobis’ domestic patent rights with suppliers, providing support for patent rights their technical competitiveness through the free lending of patented technologies training materials and during evaluations and inspections. As a result, Hyundai ‌2016 results: disclosure of 160 patents and utility model licenses, 3 suppliers, nocost sharing of 21 patents Mobis has improved quality through standardization and enhancement of its CTO forum Sharing our R&D direction with suppliers for stronger win-win partnerships suppliers’ process management and objectively enhanced guidance for them (Participation by 90 companies in 2016) to strengthen their competitiveness. We will strive to improve competencies for Open door policy Opening the doors to our Shanghai R&D Center and its test equipment to Korean at the Shanghai suppliers who followed Hyundai Mobis into overseas markets (a total of 127 testing guidance and evaluation of our suppliers, by utilizing the guidebook as a source R&D Center devices, including airbag deployment apparatus testers, etc.) ‌2016 test performance results: 24,258 cases of training materials for our employees including those at overseas subsidiaries. Filing for joint Filing for joint patent rights on jointly developed technologies and paying all the patent rights required expenses to ease supplier liquidity issues ‌2016 results: a total of 9 suppliers, 25 cases filed for joint patents, with KRW 9.4 million in expenses MaximizSubsidizing patent Subsidizing supplier applications for patents based on their own technology to help them protect their technical innovations ing Mutual filing expenses ‌2216 results: KRW 14.7 million Growth Passing on Know-how related to Production and Reinforcing suppliers’ Increasing practical win-win competencies partnerships Quality Management Hyundai Mobis passes on know-how related to production and quality management to its suppliers to strengthen their competencies. Since 2012, the Reinforcing suppliers’ Promoting win-win partnership open event held at plants was only for primary suppliers, but starting from competitiveness programs 2015, we expanded it to include secondary suppliers. We invited employees from about 300 secondary suppliers to our plant to take a tour of production Expanding business consulting Increasing R&D support site and share information about advanced management systems, including to suppliers plant management, process enhancement and quality assurance. Based • Providing supplier training Fair opportunities for bidding on the MSQ (Mobis Supplier Quality) quality certification system for suppli• Expanding seminars competitions ers, we held benchmarking events for outstanding suppliers targeting our MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 49 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix secondary suppliers, contributing to strengthening quality and improving greater change in prices, while Hyundai Mobis makes adjustments whenever management practices through a ladder of mutual growth among secondthere is a five percent or greater change in prices. In 2016, we raised the pricary suppliers. We provided a tour of our production lines and held council es paid to our suppliers by KRW 64 billion. Furthermore, all changes to supmeetings to share best practices for 185 secondary suppliers that visited ply prices are transparently disclosed to every supplier via a separate portal two suppliers chosen for outstanding quality. Also, Hyundai Mobis invited a site and through the MCOMS, so that they are accessible to all suppliers. total of about 85 employees from 79 outstanding suppliers that contributed to improving customer service by supplying top-quality parts and components in a timely manner during the past year, and sent them on a four Win-Win Program with Agencies day short-term overseas training program to Beijing, China. The employees attended the Beijing Motor Show, and were given a chance to benchmark The Hyundai Mobis automotive parts sales network consists of agencies and Beijing Hyundai Mobis plant and Beijing Hyundai Motors plant. dealers, and is closely linked to all areas of the AS parts business including sales, marketing and inventory management. Therefore, the enhancement of their competencies will greatly improve the value of Hyundai Mobis, which is why we support competency-building for agencies with varied training programs as well as other practical programs to assist with their business activities. For instance, we dispatch our business consultants to agencies where our representatives can help with business restructuring. Additionally, our Best Practice Awards motivate higher performance results at these same agencies. We share the burden of product defects that occur in the process of warehousing or transporting parts and components. At the same time, we support their inventory cost-saving measures and distribution control improvements. This, in turn, adds to our competitive edge. Benchmarking outstanding suppliers Increasing Practical Win-Win Partnerships Expanding Financial Aid to Suppliers Hyundai Mobis contributed KRW 96.5 billion in funds exclusively for the fiBusiness Academy for agency CEOs nancial stability of its primary and secondary suppliers, offering payment guarantees for under-banked suppliers to receive low-interest loans. As of Supplier Communication Programs the end of 2016, 41 suppliers received a total of KRW 57.2 billion in loans under the program. Additionally, we have introduced a KRW 16.9 billion proClassification Number of Details sessions (yearly) gram exclusively for secondary suppliers. In a bid to help its suppliers with Regular general meetings of One time Explanation about Hyundai Mobis’ purchasliquidity problems, Hyundai Mobis pays all its bills in cash, with the scope of suppliers ing/quality policies for partner companies and raising their management mindset beneficiaries expanded to include larger-sized SMEs with sales of below KRW Executive meetings of the 2 times Approval on partner companies’ budget and 300 billion as of April 2015. Starting from 2016, we have expanded to mediWin-Win Partnership Council project against their executives um-sized companies with sales of less than KRW 500 billion. We also advise Seminars for CEOs of 2 times Explanation about Hyundai Mobis’ purchassecondary suppliers ing/quality policies for secondary suppliers our suppliers to make cash settlements among fellow suppliers to promote and sharing visions/ visited Hyundai Mobis’ this practice throughout our entire supply chain. In order to create a culture module/parts plants of stable payment among secondary/tertiary suppliers, we adopted the winSeminar on win-win One time Promoting the culture of win-win partnerpartnerships with partner ships through actively implementing related win settlement system, so that starting from July 2015 payments are made companies for beautiful policies and explaining about support syscompanionship tems for suppliers through all commercial banks as win-win settlement products. Hanmaum Meeting with One time A resolution rally for achieving quality targets In consideration of the impact that volatile commodity prices have on our major suppliers (listening to areas of difficulty) suppliers, we sat down with them to adjust supply prices through the Fair Fruit basket rewards to One time Rewarding outstanding suppliers in the first suppliers with outstanding half of the year with seasonal fruits Transaction Agreements recommended by the Fair Trade Commission. The performance results automotive industry makes adjustments whenever there is a ten percent or Seminars for suppliers to our Once each Introducing Hyundai Mobis’ policies and local subsidiaries in India rewarding outstanding suppliers that made and China joint entries 50 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix In order to ensure win-win partnership with suppliers, Hyundai Mobis is operating diverse programs aimed at enhancing suppliers’ competitiveness and expanding practical win-win partnership. Seven Beautiful Pledge Performance Results Classification Units 2014 2015 2016 Loan Support to Suppliers Loan guarantees KRW 100 million 568 518 572 Suppliers Companies 42 42 41 R&D Collaboration Sharing of the Shanghai Test Center Cases 22,265 39,623 7,889 CTO forums Companies 152 119 90 Sharing of royalty-free intellectual property Rights Cases 160 160 160 Support to Secondary/Tertiary Suppliers Supporting MSQ evaluations Companies/persons 23/23 156/156 164/212 Subcontracting agreements between primary and Companies 412 733 437 secondary suppliers Support of Training Programs Supporting training programs Companies 1,648 1,905 587 No. of trainees Persons 2,265 2,800 2,657 Communication with Suppliers Cooperation meetings Companies 173 167 166 Ethical Management and Suppliers Results of CP evaluation Grade A Promotion of Fair Transactions with Paying SME suppliers in cash Settlements in cash Settlements in cash Settlements in cash Suppliers Supporting win-win partnerships including Rise in paid customer supply & unit cost KRW 100 million 16,789 14,337 12,677 performance sharing and others PMI KRW 100 million 76 90 Status of Competence-Building Programs for Agencies Classification Program purpose and details Major performance in 2016 Management Consulting for Agencies Dispatch Hyundai Mobis employees with management consulting qualifications to each agency for four weeks, and Completed at 52 agencies analyze the overall management problems of the agency, including organizational management, sales, marketing, (a total of 299 agencies) inventory and logistics, to derive improvements Best practice contests for agencies Share best practices from four outstanding agencies from the previous year during invitational seminars held for Announced and awarded best practices of across the nation outstanding agencies to motivate them to voluntarily improve their management practices management innovation for four agencies Enhancing the inventory of agencies Support agencies’ inventory cost-saving measures and distribution control enhancement programs by sharing the Support KRW 1.87 billion burden of product defects that occur in the process of distributing parts and components Personnel assistance to improve the Strengthen the competitiveness of the distribution network by supporting part of the personnel expenses for agencies Supported 35 agencies (a total of 52 agencies) environment of agencies that have applied for environmental improvements and a total of KRW 120 million Safety Tests for Agencies As part of the commitment to establish a win-win partnership system for agencies, external institutions reviewed Completed inspection of 669 agencies risk factors that make agencies unsafe and encouraged improvements based on review results to provide a stable Supported a total of KRW 72 million environment for supplying parts. Number of Trainees that Completed the Support of Training Programs for Our Agencies (Unit: persons) Classification Program purpose and details 2014 2015 2016 Year of adoption Business Academy for agency CEOs Strengthening personnel competencies and training change management for agency CEOs 253 148 150 2009 → Special lecture on leadership, inventory/logistics management and outstanding agencies Job training programs for agency Job training for strengthening personnel competencies of agency employees 204 342 333 2011 employees → ‌Component technology information, inventory/logistics management, computer program utilization, CS, etc. Fostering next-generation managers Training on management succession of agencies with next-generation managers and 68 57 2015 strengthening their job competencies Training on Strengthening Agencies’ Providing training on motivation to improve autonomous management for agencies with 97 2016 Competitiveness bad evaluation grades (C,D grades), including self-management consulting (analyzing the current level of management, identifying improvement tasks) and consultations. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 51 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix 4 Employee Diversity The driving force behind a company’s sustainable growth comes from its employees. New ideas are derived from employees with different backgrounds and competencies, contributing to the creation of new business opportunities and the company’s sustainable growth. Hyundai Mobis has a diverse workforce not only to make social contributions that take into consideration the socially neglected, but also utilize human resources with diverse backgrounds to achieve business goals. To do this, we recruit talented people through an open recruitment process and operate a competency-based evaluation and compensation system. Moreover, we make strenuous efforts to create a corporate culture that respects diversity in the workplace and our employees’ human rights. Number of employees 9,225 in Korea / 20,274 overseas (Unit: persons) 29,499 Number of new employees (Unit: persons) 667 Employee Diversity Training hours per person (Unit: hours) 116 Progress in 2016 2017+ Recruiting global R&D staff Recruiting outstanding global talent Strengthening leadership training and establishing the 100 day journey Expanding opportunities of developing employees’ work experience for new team leaders Establishing overseas subsidiaries’ training system Spreading integrated HRD to overseas subsidiaries 52 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Recruitment of Talented Employees Recruiting Talented Employees Hyundai Mobis recruits talented employees through a fair and open recruitDomestic New Employees Female workers ment process. As of 2016, the total number of employees totaled 29,499 per(Unit: persons) ‌Female employees whose rank is manager/ senior researcher or above (persons) sons. We actively recruit foreign employees with outstanding abilities in line Female workers (persons) with the company’s overseas expansion. In order to effectively hire talented 756 1,026 overseas employees in 2016, we set up a task force for global recruitment 675 677 971 888 and increased localization by expanding the responsibility and rights of locally-hired employees working at overseas subsidiaries. Status by employee category 38 46 33 Executive General manager Senior manager Manager Assistant manager Assistant or below 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 103 476 1,056 1,901 1,423 1,639 Domestic & Overseas Workforce Human Resources Development Classification 2014 2015 2016 The key to the company’s sustainable growth is ‘talented people’ and fosterDomestic 8,170 8,672 9,225 ing such talent means going beyond developing human resources to focus Overseas China 5,885 6,480 7,965 on the individual. Also, we strive to develop multiple leaders rather than The Americas 3,828 4,705 6,024 a small group of managers, so that talented people can achieve the comEurope 3,858 4,068 4,914 pany's vision while at the same time fulfilling their own dreams. In 2015, Asia-Pacific/Others 1,101 1,291 1,371 Hyundai Mobis established the Global Hyundai Mobis Business Academy Total 14,672 16,544 20,274 (GHMBA) 2020, which is a mid-and long-run HRD system, to develop huTotal 22,842 25,216 29,499 man resources based on field-oriented, self-directed learning and perforGrowth rate 11.2% 10.4% 17.0% mance-oriented programs. In 2016, we promoted the development of employee competencies by focusing on strengthening leadership competency and self-directed learning programs. Hyundai Mobis’ HRD System ✓ Building a value-oriented dynamic corporate culture GHMVC 2) ˙Create a corporate culture pursuing basics and principles ˙Internalize field-oriented core values ✓ Pursuing professional excellence 1 3 GHMPC3) ˙Strengthening self-directed learning systems PerforSelf˙Creating an on-site continued learning system mance directed -based 3 Directions ✓ Enhancing systematic HRD management competencies GHMMC4) ˙Establishing a Global HRD management system ˙Devising a global HRD infrastructure 2 Field-oriented ✓ Building global competencies GHMGC5) ˙Bolstering HRD at overseas subsidiaries GHMBA1)-2020 ˙Strengthen the development of global leaders 1) GHMBA: Global Hyundai Mobis Business Academy ✓ Achieving field-oriented creative leadership 2) GHMVC: Global Hyundai Mobis Value Center 3) GHMPC: Global Hyundai Mobis Professional Center GHMLC6) ˙Reinforce the leadership competencies led by team leaders 4) GHMMC: Global Hyundai Mobis Management Center 5) GHMGC: Global Hyundai Mobis Global Center ˙Foster the next-generation core competencies 6) GHMLC: Global Hyundai Mobis Leadership Center MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 53 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Fostering Job Experts through Self-directed Learning a knowledge conference so that the knowledge learned from COPs can be IDP spread across the enterprise. In this way, Hyundai Mobis had three tracks for Hyundai Mobis employees make their own training plans and carry out plans COPs, including the sharing of learning results and knowledge from COPs, to develop their individual competencies, thereby creating a self-directed selecting best practices from COPs and spreading business trends across learning culture. This system is known as the IDP (Individual Development the enterprise, allowing knowledge gained from COPs to be shared throughPlan) and has been used since 2015. The IDP diagnoses individual competenout the company. cies at the current stage to come up with a development plan for improved competencies. After meeting with the mentor (team leader), the company S-OJT(Structured On-the-job Training) provides support for the individual until his/her career goal is achieved. The Structured On-the-job Training (S-OJT) is a self-directed learning course program is designed so that the company’s goal and the employee’s personal that was created because the existing OJT was conducted out of mere forgoal are in harmony. We also set up the IDP infrastructure to ensure effective mality and was not helpful on site, which is why the new system is based implementation. In 2016, Hyundai Mobis strengthened the responsibilities on a teaching plan provided by an experienced employee (tutor). In 2016, of employees in charge of HRD by reflecting KPIs (key performance indexes) a total of 214 employees participated in 104 S-OJT programs. Among the when evaluating the performance of IDPs (Individual Development Plans). S-OJT programs, we selected and rewarded two outstanding S-OJT programs based on goal achievement, expertise, satisfaction level and passion. Team Team Hyundai Mobis strives to support diverse training programs to meet its emleader member ployees’ learning needs Counseling/coaching Diagnose Establish CompetenceEvaluate the perforTypes of S-OJT (Structured On-the-job Training) with the mentor competency IDP building activities mance rate of IDP Community of Practice (COP) Job OJT Employees who need job learning Hyundai Mobis runs multiple Communities of Practice (COP) that motivate employees to take interest in diverse fields and derive ideas for the company’s management practices. COP can be formed with at least three employees. They are aimed at creating a self-directed learning culture that Sharing details after researchers analyze Benchmarking other company’s products encourages self-directed learning on a daily basis and facilitates communication through R&D activities. In 2016, a total of 135 COPs were set up where 1,500 employees took part in sharing different ideas. The members of COPs thought that the advantages included: creating a self-directed learning culSpreading what some employees have Spreading ture, facilitating human networking through a COP and strengthening the learned from the training to other employculture ees member competencies, and generating new growth opportunities. At the year-end, we held a COP best practice contest to accurately evaluate the diverse activities carried out throughout the year in 2016 and recognized Webinar (web the achievements of one gold prize team, three silver prize teams, two seminar & vidSharing knowledge bilaterally through bronze prize teams and three participation prize teams. Moreover, we held eo conference video conferences training) Competence-building Activities by Job Duty Competence-building types Classification 2015 2016 Number of courses Number of employees Number of courses Number of employees Formal Learning Internal job training 518 25,099 744 44,896 External job training 554 554 699 699 Informal Learning Community of Practice (COP) 129 1,141 135 1,500 S-OJT 116 375 104 214 Mentoring 448 896 468 936 Knowledge (regularly learned contents) 440 18,869 452 33,281 54 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Strengthening Leadership Competency ACE (ACE: Awakening, Communication, Execution) Team Fostering Global Leaders Leadership Program In order to dispatch outstanding people to overseas subsidiaries around the In recognition of the need to change the existing leadership paradigm, world, Hyundai Mobis is doing its best to develop experts for each region. Hyundai Mobis reorganized its regular leadership programs mainly for We upgraded our training courses provided at overseas subsidiaries so that teams to realize practical leadership by developing field-oriented leaderstaff members dispatched overseas can quickly adapt to the new business ship. We decided to support the new learning unit and learning method as environment and easily get used to the local language, culture and business we diagnosed and managed the effectiveness of training. As a result, we environment. We have a pool of local experts including those situated in developed field-oriented leadership within a team unit (team leader+team English-speaking regions (the U.S., Europe), Chinese-speaking regions (Chimembers), while also encouraging self-directed learning in real time under na) and other regions (Mexico, Brazil), enabling employees sent abroad to the team leader’s supervision. Time-series analysis and trend management learn the local language and culture. In the case of local experts for China are conducted for the team leadership diagnosis model. and Brazil, we improved the training system so that employees can learn the In 2014, Hyundai Mobis developed the Team Leadership ACE Model. We dilanguage in Korea before going on to take training courses at local universiagnosed the team leadership against managerial office workers at the comties or language institutions. Through the business skill language programs, pany a total of four times, twice each in 2015 and 2016. Later in December employees can learn communication skills required for working at overseas of the same year, we provided practical management for each team through subsidiaries while also learning the language. In order to ensure staff mema briefing session to give feedbacks on the results of the team leadership bers sent overseas fulfill their basic roles, we provide training on the roles diagnosis. In 2016, we developed and operated a 100-day strategy program and responsibilities of overseas subsidiaries, the region’s safety environfor new team leaders to improve their leadership competencies while taking ment, incidents at overseas subsidiaries, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices into consideration their responsibilities and roles at the company, includAct (FCPA). Moreover, we run global leadership competence-building proing HR assessment, team member development and ethical management. grams to nurture their mindsets as global leaders. Besides the employees Hyundai Mobis plans to implement continuous monitoring and share the dispatched overseas, we also provide family workshops to help family memresults by identifying analysis results in real time and setting up implemenbers adapt to local environments by providing training on different cultures, tation plans through performance indicator sharing. Going forward, we will global manners and meeting with family members when returning home. run customized leadership training programs for each team led by different team leaders on site. ACE Team Leadership Definition and Model Leadership that promotes growth and development among team members by achieving team goals through collaboration among Hyundai Mobis’ ✓ ‌Definition of ACE Team Leadership team members, which works to improve the three factors of awakening, communication and execution. team leadership ACE Team Leadership Model Composition Contribute to the company Team’s specific goals that contribute in generating Inputs Goal Specific goals results for the company Awakening Goal perception Awakening the team’s goals and roles to team members Motivation and motivating them Communication Respect Communicating with team members by exchanging Mediators Communication opinions in diverse ways and respecting them Execution Expertise Executing team tasks by taking the lead equipped with expertise required for the task Execution Satisfaction felt by team members through the team and Team satisfaction Outcomes Performance the team’s results contribute to achieving the company’s Team results goals MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 55 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Evaluation and compensation Performance Evaluation Performance-based compensations Hyundai Mobis develops talented employees through a suitable human Performance-based compensations differ for each job position and evalresources system, which evaluates employee performance in two aspects: uation, but there is no gender discrimination in compensation. Moreover, individual competencies and performance results. compensation is incentivized for managers and executives to provide addiIndividual evaluations are made based on individual competencies in contional motivation. Promotions are only made after reviewing employee persideration of team performance as measured by KPIs (key performance informance in consideration of HR evaluations, language skills, certificates, dexes). The KPIs reflect management’s annual goals, with the evaluation and completed training. Those with outstanding accomplishments qualify scheme sharing the same approach for all teams. Each performance indicafor promotion regardless of their seniority. tor is classified into quantitative and qualitative indicators to ensure objectivity in the evaluation results. There is brief feedback provided whenever a Performance Evaluation System target is not reached. Team members are evaluated on their competencies, while team leaders are evaluated for their leadership based on a multilayHyundai Mobis has clear operating standards and procedures along with ered evaluation criteria list. systematic HR management policies that comply with performance-based, role-based and operating excellence principles that contribute to motivating employees and revitalizing the organization. Performance Evaluation System Mission/ Vision/ Organizational goal Strategy Organizational competencies Performance evaluation Competency evaluation Financial and non-financial goals Technology, knowledge and ability related to the company-wide and to successfully carry out the tasks organizational goal Job CompanyDepartment/ Individual Basic Leadership competencies Division wide Team MBO competencies competencies Organizational performance management Individual performance management Performance-based grade Competency-based grade Utilization of evaluation results Classification of performance and competency ratios according to the purpose of utilization and each phase of roles when compensation and promotion are made Individual Performance Evaluation Classification 2015 2016 Note No. of employees No. of employees Percentage No. of employees No. of employees Percentage evaluated compensated evaluated compensated KPI-based evaluation 8,672 8,672 100% 9,225 9,225 100% Persons in positions of above executives (excludMulti-layered evaluation 8,672 437 5% 9,225 485 5% ing above managing directors) and team leaders Compensation linked to relative Persons in positions of above executives (exclud8,672 3,238 37% 9,225 3,558 39% evaluations ing above managing directors) and managers 56 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Diversity and Human Rights Hyundai Mobis encourages the use of maternity and parental leave as Promoting Diversity in the Workplace part of its commitment to supporting a healthy work-life balance and Hyundai Mobis pursues a creative corporate culture that consists of empreventing female workers from career ployees from diverse backgrounds and respects human rights as part of its interruptions due to child care. core values. As such, we have diverse systems to ensure our employees can utilize their individual competencies without any discrimination based on gender, nationality or academic background. Overseas Employees Hyundai Mobis actively recruits outstanding overseas employees in line Gender Equality with plans to grow its international operations. In order to help locally hired As of 2016, Hyundai Mobis had 1,026 female employees, accounting for employees working at overseas subsidiaries quickly adapt to Korean cul11.1% of the domestic workforce. We have female employee lounge inture, we provide opportunities to enhance cultural understanding through cluding a nursing room at all worksites. At the Mabuk Technical Center, language and culture education. In addition, we invite local employees from there are separate parking spaces for pregnant employees who are easily overseas to visit our head office, technical centers and regional worksites in recognizable with their pink-colored employee cardholders, so that female Korea, so that they get a better understanding of the company and Korean employees can enjoy a better working environment. In addition, Hyundai culture. Mobis strictly prohibits female workers from being involved in dangerous or harmful tasks, and does not tolerate any form of sexual harassment in the workplace. In support of employees in their attempt to maintain a healthy work-life balance, and to prevent female workers from unwillingly interrupting their careers, the company has in place advanced maternity and parental leave programs and encourages employees to apply for leave when necessary, while also providing flexible work schedules for female employees who took leave to give birth or take care of their children. Invitational event for employees from overseas subsidiaries Return to Work After Using Parental Leaves Classification 2014 2015 2016 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Maternity No. of employees on maternity leave 77 77 62 62 76 76 Leaves Rate of returning to work after a leave (%) 100 100 95 95 95 95 Rate of working for at least 12 months or longer after returning to 97 97 90 90 work (%) Childcare No. of employees on childcare leave 1 75 76 2 81 83 6 100 106 Leaves Rate of returning to work after a leave (%) 100 100 100 100 99 99 100 99 99 Rate of working for at least 12 months or longer after returning to 100 96 96 100 93 94 work (%) ※ 2016 figures for employment for at least 12 months or longer after returning to work will be available at the end of 2017. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 57 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Respecting Human Rights Strengthening Communication between Generations and Internal Ombudsman System Employees in Different Job Positions Hyundai Mobis has established an internal ombudsman system. The Cyber Hyundai Mobis holds team seminars and meetings with top management Auditor Office is open to reports on unethical conduct and improper decito increase synergies by strengthening communication and cooperation besions, including infringement on human rights and associated disciplinary tween generations and employees in different job positions. In the case of action. A company-wide evaluation that includes business ethics indicators, division-based seminars on core values, we identify corporate culture issues corporate culture diagnosis, core value surveys, and employee engagement at divisional levels and resolve them to come up with innovative initiatives surveys is instrumental in helping the company measure employee sentithat encourage actual changes while performing job duties. A total of 10 ment, communication, work-life balance, work-related stress, and ethics division-based seminars have been held to develop twenty-two compaawareness. The key issues derived from these research results are then reny-wide campaigns. For team-based seminars, we systematically managed ported to the management board for reflection in innovation initiatives at seminars through a comprehensive management process, including preeach divisional level. liminary diagnosis, schedule setting and result reporting. Additionally, we implemented diverse programs to create a communicative and trust-based Compliance with Labor Laws corporate culture where the top management and employees can comHyundai Mobis faithfully abides by local labor laws and related regulations municate openly. In 2016, the CEO held various events for employees each in all countries it operates in, and respects local cultures and social norms month, such as birthday celebrations, meals and movies events. Moreover, in its personnel management practices. Moreover, we guarantee employees we held Junior Board and division-based meetings to provide more opporthe right to form unions, representative bodies and collective bargaining tunities for employee participation and tried to reflect employee opinions entities under all related laws and regulations in Korea and overseas, as when setting management policy direction. well as the right for them to carry out union activities. In 2016, 5,336 people, or 56.9% of our total workforce, were entitled to collective bargaining. Hyundai Mobis arranges quarterly collective bargaining and labor management council meetings, and hosts annual labor-management joint business presentations to strengthen mutual partnerships. Also, the company strictly abides by all laws and regulations regarding human rights and labor, and extends generous working conditions and fringe benefits under its collective bargaining agreements that go above and beyond legal requirements. Achieving a Work-Life Balance Under the belief that efficiently and effectively fulfilling job duties while eliminating unnecessary hindrances is the basis for flexibly responding to the changing business environment and achieving continuous growth, Hyundai Mobis has been internalizing a work smart environment as part of Casual Fridays to Create a Flexible Corporate Culture and its corporate culture. Respect Individuality To achieve this, we share information through various systems to ensure Hyundai Mobis has designated the last Friday of each month Casual Friday smooth communication and cooperation, including the centralization of to respect the individuality of its employees and create a flexible corporate knowledge assets through MCloud and the reorganization of the imobis culture. Casual Fridays allow employees to wear business casual attire inreport and approval system to achieve a paperless work environment. For stead of business formal suits that are standard in Korean corporate culture. a genuine work smart environment, we selected five innovative initiatives Casual Fridays have become a monthly event that shows the company’s will (meeting/document writing/work guidance/report, approval/cooperation) to encourage a flexible horizontal and vertical corporate culture, to encourwith guidelines to improve role fulfillment through related manuals and age its employees to think outside the box. Staring from 2017, the company handbooks in e-book format to help employees enhance their levels of will make Casual Fridays a weekly event to highlight the company’s ardent understanding. In addition, we reached a consensus and raised awareness desire to create a flexible corporate culture that encourages the individualthrough change management activities to encourage employees to change ity of each employee. their mindset about how they work. As a result, the average Work Smart Index (WSI) for 2016 increased by 6.3 points compared to the previous year. 58 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Creating a Healthy and Safe Working Environment In order to promote the health of employees, Hyundai Mobis has in-house In 2013, Hyundai Mobis was the first to obtain OHSAS 18001 (Occupational workout rooms at each worksite/regional center, and a non-smoking camHealth & Safety Assessment Series) certification and KOSHA 18001 (Korea paign in alliance with local public health centers. Since 2014, we have opOccupational Safety & Health Agency) certification for all its domestic proerated Healing Sam, which provides counseling services offered by clinical duction lines, and has maintained the certifications by passing follow-up repsychologists to act as communication channels between management views in 2016. Additionally, all of our overseas production sites established and employees. The program also provides training on mental health and and operated OHSAS 18001 systems, so that all domestic and overseas changing corporate culture, as well as conducting team-based psychologiplants implemented systematic health & safety management policies by cal diagnosis. In 2016, we promoted the psychological health of our employstipulating detailed action plans and guidelines for application in day-toees with 879 consultations that resolved workplace issues and offered reday role fulfillment. In order to achieve the goal of a zero-accident worklationship coaching. Under the safety-first management policy that aims to place, Hyundai Mobis has implemented various health and safety initiatives, make employee health and safety the top priority in all business activities, while also setting up an autonomous and advanced safety management Hyundai Mobis has been implementing diverse policies to enhance employsystem by managing performance to reach goals set for each field, evaluatees’ satisfaction levels and create a safe working environment. We set up a ing company-wide health & safety KPIs, and offering rewards for outstandSafety & Environment Team to be in charge of company-wide health/safety/ ing performance and zero-accident worksites. environmental management activities at domestic and overseas worksites. In order to thoroughly manage safety at all worksites, we selected safety & environment staff and established specific and realistic improvement plans to prevent industrial accidents. Moreover, we came up with countermeasures to meet the growing public need for sustained social responsibility and increased control over safety/environmental risks. Additionally, we set up the Industrial Health & Safety Management Committee to deliberate and decide on major issues and policies regarding the company’s health and safety management. Result of Work Smart Analysis 2015 Collaboration Meeting 70 2016 66.8 67.1 60 50 Getting approval on Drawing up 70.2 66.3 reports documents 64.7 Giving work instructions Healing Sam MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 59 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix 5 Environmental Management Hyundai Mobis has established a global energy management system to ensure efficient energy consumption and reduce CO2 emissions, thereby proactively responding to climate change. Additionally, we will achieve sustainable growth by striving to reduce the use of hazardous substances and waste generation while focusing on the development of eco-friendly materials. Domestic Water Resource Use in 2016 Compared to 2015 (Unit: %) 27.5 Domestic Energy Consumption in 2016 Compared to 2015 (Unit: %) 16.4 Environmental Management Domestic Waste Discharge Volume in 2016 Compared to 2015 (Unit: %) 16.8 Progress in 2016 2017+ Proactive response to chemical management regulations Expand greenhouse gas emission and energy reduction technologies to all worksites Strengthen activities for reducing pollutants Facilitate the resource circulation through waste recovery and recycling Develop suppliers’ reduction technologies for environmental impacts Strengthening operating process for hazardous substances 60 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Environmental Management System Hyundai Mobis sets detailed implementation tasks and goals for enviIn order to effectively respond to ronmental management on a yearly basis, and shares major issues and domestic and overseas regulations on GHG emissions and energy status with internal and external stakeholders. As of the end of 2016, all consumption, Hyundai Mobis has our operations, including 29 plants and 29 parts operations at home and established and implemented ecoabroad, had obtained ISO 14001 certificates, the international standard for friendly management strategies. environmental management systems, which is renewed every year through certification review through comprehensive inspection and improvement of environmental management at each site. Input & Output Flowchart (domestic) Input Output 2015 2016 2015 2016 Water use 824,000 tons 598,000 tons GHG emissions 112,350 tCO2eq 119,628 tCO2eq Electricity 2,073 TJ 2,210 TJ Air pollutants 51.9 tons 75.4 tons Fuel 198 TJ 209 TJ Water pollutants 11.5 tons 6.4 tons Solvents 4,328 tons 3,974 tons Recyclables 9,692 tons 7,894 tons Plastics/rubbers 27,387 tons 41,501 tons Wastes 18,176 tons 15,127 tons Metals 305,007 tons 224,723 tons Mid-to long-term Implementation Directions for Environmental Management 2016 2017 2018 Strengthening the response system for Establishing proactive response process for Fulfilling CSR for the environment environmental regulations environmental regulations ˙Establishing an enterprise-wide energy ˙Purchasing/developing eco-friendly products ˙Implementing CSR activities for environmental management system (GMEMS) Replace items subject to environmental regulations protection ˙Developing individual technologies for reducing (phenol resins → eco-friendly materials) Develop energy-efficient systems by facility (in GHG emissions ˙Reducing pollutants arising from production connection with energy management system) Optimize facility operation condition processes Develop suppliers’ reduction technologies for Develop and expand LED lights for logistics centers Develop reduction technologies for pollutants and environmental impacts and pass on know-how Replace with LED lights utilize recyclable products on reducing GHG emissions / replace hazardous ˙Upgrading the energy management system substances ˙Establish a chemical monitoring system for purchased raw materials → Proactively respond to (GMEMS) Establish an exemplary eco-friendly facility for chemical regulations Expand monitoring system → intelligent control handling hazardous substances system ˙Developing individual technologies for reducing GHG emissions Develop high-efficient air conditioning and heating system Input and Utilization of Resources Metals Petrochemical Products In 2016, Hyundai Mobis used 224,723 tons of metal raw materials, down To increase fuel efficiency and the recycling rate of end-of-life vehicles, by 26.32% compared to the previous year. This reflects the recent trend of Hyundai Mobis strives to raise the recovery rate of its products and gradlightening the weight of frames and parts in cars with light but high-strength ually phase in composite plastics to lighten the weight of its products, and materials like plastic and aluminum. ultimately of automobiles. Since 2010, we have adopted a process that collects and recycles fugitive paint powders that scatter during the coating MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 61 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix lamp lens process, thereby lowering the loss of solvents and raising efficiency. In 2016, our petrochemical product use increased by 51.54 percent Pollutant Emissions & Control (Output) in plastics/rubbers (41,501 tons) and decreased by 8.18 percent in solvents (3,974 tons). GHG Emissions Control After being designated as a company managed under the Korean GHG & Energy Energy Target Management System in accordance with the Basic Act on Low In 2016, Hyundai Mobis consumed a total of 6,876TJ (domestic 2,419TJ, overCarbon Green Growth in 2014, Hyundai Mobis fulfilled its reduction obligaseas 4,457TJ) of energy at domestic and overseas worksites. The amount tion for the first time in 2016. As a result of implementing detailed goals of energy consumed increased by 16.4% compared to the previous year, and reduction plans for different worksites that aim to reduce emissions by showing increased energy consumption internationally (22.5%) compared 10.8% compared to the emission quota determined by the government, we to domestic operations (6.7%) due to the expansion of production and emitted 119,628 tons of GHG and succeeded in reducing our emissions by manufacturing sites. Meanwhile, Hyundai Mobis has completed building 22.3% to exceed the quota. the GMEMS (Global Mobis Energy Management System) at major domestic In recognition of the need to mitigate climate change that has become a soand overseas worksites in 2016, thereby aiming to reduce company-wide cial issue, Hyundai Mobis has made many efforts to control GHG emissions as part of fulfilling its CSR. Since the establishment of its in-house MGMS energy intensity (TJ/KRW 100 million) and manage energy systematically at (Hyundai Mobis Greenhouse-gas Management System) in 2011, we calculate each individual worksite and facility. company-wide GHG emissions, analyze statistics and set up a database with regular updates, while also participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project Water Resources (CDP) to disclose our GHG emissions management performance to stakeCharacteristic to the assembly process, our total use of water resources holders. is not very high, and we make use of industrial water and water services, In 2016, we completed building the GMEMS (Global Mobis Energy Manageneither of which have an influence on biodiversity. In order to raise the rement System) at 17 domestic sites (12 plants, the Mabuk Technical Center, use/recycling rate, Hyundai Mobis has continuously invested in improving Asan and Ulsan Logistics Centers) and 4 overseas sites, which are expected facilities, including addressing cooling tower overflow and increasing the to contribute to providing real-time measurement and analysis for energy and GHG emissions reduction, including energy consumption and condirecovery of steam condensing water, so that we used 27.5% less water than tions, costs and quality used in diverse facilities and equipment through the previous year. efficient energy management based on IT system. The GMEMS has been set up at 27 domestic sites, and it will gradually expand to cover 13 overseas Domestic/Overseas Energy Consumption sites. Meanwhile, Hyundai Mobis has reduced logistics costs through varAmount of raw materials Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared ious activities aimed at boosting logistics efficiency, including enhancing used to 2015 (%) logistics imports and exports, improving CKD aviation logistics, optimizing Total of domestic and TJ 5,622 5,906 6,876 16.4% overseas energy consumption global shipping, improving and applying logistics systems. During the deConsumption TJ/KRW 100 0.016 0.016 0.018 9.6% livery process of logistics, we also contributed to reducing GHG emissions. intensity million Domestic energy TJ 2,124 2,268 2,419 6.7% Energy Reduction Activities consumption Overseas energy TJ 3,498 3,638 4,457 22.5% consumption Manufacturing plants, R&D centers, logistics centers Improving LED general diffused lighting/task lighting, inDomestic Raw Material Use 2013~2014 stalling coolant water pump inverters/ air-conditioning fan inverters, improving the insulation performance of heaters at the drying oven, installing automatic power factor controller Amount of raw materials Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared (R&D centers) used to 2015 (%) Metals tons 321,610 305,007 224,723 -26.3% Plastics tons 11,613 27,387 41,501 51.5% Manufacturing plants, R&D centers, logistics centers Solvents tons 5,781 4,328 3,974 -8.2% 2015~2016 Installing LED lights and establishing the automatic nighttime charging system and the global integrated energy management system Domestic Water Resource Use Amount of raw materials Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared to Manufacturing plants, R&D centers, logistics centers used 2015 (%) 2017 Upgrading the global energy management system (monitorTotal volume of water 1,000 tons 1,099 824 598 -27.5% ing → intelligent control system) resources used 62 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Status of Waste Generation, Recycling and Reproduction chemical substances used by country and preventing the use of hazardous Hyundai Mobis has made many efforts to manage the entire process of emissubstances in the R&D stage, we promptly respond to stakeholders’ requests sions, transport and treatment of waste by utilizing an online legal waste for data. In addition, Hyundai Mobis collects information on listed hazardtreatment system (Allbaro System: the Ministry of Environment’s waste ous substances contained within automotive parts, while also conducting management system), as well as raising the waste recycling rate. Under the regular monitoring through an international material data system, enabling voluntary agreement on the recovery and recycling of plastic wastes signed prompt response to important changes made. with the Ministry of Environment in 2012, we have improved our recycling of automotive AS parts, including plastic-containing bumpers and moldRestrictions on the Use of Four Heavy Metals and Ozone ings, contributing to minimizing the environmental impact of manufactured goods. In 2016, a total of 15,127 tons of waste were generated from Hyundai Layer Destroyers Mobis’ domestic operations, and 52.2% percent (7,894 tons) were recycled. The Hyundai Motor Group has in place Global Standards for the Four Heavy The remaining amount was incinerated (44.7%) or landfilled (3.1%). Metals to meet the requirements necessary as outlined in global regulations on control of end-of-life vehicles (ELVs). Accordingly, Hyundai Mobis controls its use of the four regulated materials (lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromiPollutant Emissions Control um, and mercury) in all its components and raw materials, and is continually Hyundai Mobis manages and controls its pollutant emissions by means of striving to develop substitutes for these materials. both pollution prevention facilities and regular monitoring, while preparAdditionally, we have signed numerous green components/parts supply ing for accidental leakage of pollutants through continued facility checks agreements with suppliers not to use these substances, while supporting and improvements. Moreover, in order to reduce the generation of VOCs their use of substitutes that have little or no environmental impact and from the coating/painting process, the main cause of global warming and prohibiting the use of substances that deplete the ozone layer at domestic ozone depletion, we increased the use of water-based paints in our paintplants and in our partner companies’ manufacturing processes. ing process to reduce air pollutant emissions, while optimizing environmental facilities and replacing old air pollution prevention facilities to minDeveloping Eco-friendly Materials imize our impact on air quality. As for water pollutants, the company treats all wastewater from washing automotive parts at wastewater treatment Hyundai Mobis restricts the use of hazardous substances, and strives to defacilities at each plant before discharging it into public sewers, or retreats velop substitutes for these substances. As part of such efforts, Hyundai Mobis it at public sewage treatment plants. In particular, the wastewater treatsuccessfully developed a lead-free solder without any lead components to ment facilities make efforts to minimize the impact of water pollutants by be used in electronic devices produced internally. The initial mass producapplying stricter standards of wastewater treatment that remain 50 percent tion of lead-free solders started from the second half of 2014 to verify the credibility of the product, followed by an expansion of the scope of mass prostricter than legal requirements. duction in the second half of 2015 and application to the European Union’s end-of-life vehicles starting from 2016. Meanwhile, eco-friendly bio plastics Hazardous Substance Management that may be installed in cars are made from plant resources, which are made Hyundai Mobis has established the MCMS (Mobis Chemical Management in collaboration with bio and chemical technologies. Hyundai Mobis and System) for the systematic management of chemical substances to prevent Hyundai Motor Group are currently conducting joint research to mass prothe use of hazardous substances in advance, a system applied to all doduce biocomposite materials, as well as developing additional technologies mestically produced car models. Besides fulfilling the obligation to report to increase mass production. Domestic and overseas GHG emissions Domestic air pollutant emissions Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared to Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared to 2015 (%) 2015 (%) Total GHG emissions tCO2eq 278,361 292,234 339,701 16.2% Air pollutant tons 46.0 51.9 7.5 -85.5% generation by year Emissions tCO2eq/KRW 0.8 0.8 0.9 9.4% Pollutant emissions intensity 100 million Emissions kg/KRW 100 0.2 0.3 0.0 -86.0% Domestic tCO2eq 105,238 112,350 119,628 6.5% intensity million Overseas tCO2eq 173,123 179,884 220,073 22.3% Domestic water pollutant generation Domestic waste emissions volume Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared to 2015 (%) Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared to 2015 (%) Domestic water tons 23.3 11.5 6.4 -44.4% pollutant generation Emissions, Waste tons 19,533 18,176 15,127 -16.8% emissions volume Emissions kg/KRW 100 0.13 0.06 0.03 -46.6% (designated/general) intensity million Emissions tons/KRW 0.11 0.10 0.08 -20.0% intensity 100 million MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 63 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Corporate Achievements General Issues In order to fulfill its CSR and inspire credibility in stakeholders, Hyundai Mobis has an independent board of directors under a transparent and healthy corporate governance system to achieve win-win partnerships and implement ethical management practices. Through these efforts, we aim to become a global top tier producer respected in the auto parts industry by protecting future resources and enhancing corporate values. Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix P. 66 P. 68 P. 72 P. 74 Corporate Compliance Risk Social Governance Management Contribution Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Corporate Governance In order to increase corporate values and protect the interests of stakeholders, including shareholders and customers, Hyundai Mobis has set up a board of directors under a transparent and healthy corporate governance system. Outside directors account for more than 50% of the board to ensure that all stakeholder opinions are reflected in the decision-making process and strengthen the board’s independence, with subcommittees supporting the BOD’s efficient operations with expertise in their respective areas. Ownership Status of the BOD As of the end of 2016, Hyundai Mobis’ outstanding shares totaled 97,347,837 The BOD of Hyundai Mobis is the top decision-making body that represents shares (including 97,343,863 common and 3,974 preferred shares). The largits diverse stakeholders, and supervises and approves resolutions on maest shareholders and persons of vested interest held 30.17 percent of total jor management issues to ensure the company’s long-term growth. As of shares, while the aggregate number of shares held by minority shareholders the end of 2016 (reporting period), Hyundai Mobis’ BOD consisted of nine below 1/100 ownership of the company’s equity capital accounted for 59.4 directors, including four internal and five outside directors. As the automopercent of total shares for the same period. tive parts business requires prompt decision making and large-scale investments, the CEO concurrently takes the chair of the BOD, while the company runs an Outside Director Recommendation Committee to make sure the BOD functions independently regardless of the CEO’s concurrent positions. Operation and Remuneration of the BOD In 2016, the board of directors (BOD) convened 10 meetings to deliberate Attendance Rate of Outside Directors Remunerations to Directors and resolve 37 agenda items and reports. The attendance rate for outside (Unit: %) (Unit: KRW million) directors stood at 98 percent that year. Remuneration is made to board 98 7,590 96 93 6,625 6,752 members within the limits approved by the general shareholders’ meeting based on the reported performance review results. In 2016, a total of KRW 7.59 billion was paid out from a budget of a KRW 10 billion ceiling. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Ownership Structure (As of Dec. 31, 2016) Classification Common (shares) % Preferred (shares) % International investors 43,651,055 44.8 174 4.4 Domestic institutional investors 18,620,524 19.1 88 2.2 Domestic individual investors 3,061,910 3.1 3,712 93.4 Largest shareholders 29,367,179 30.2 0 0.0 Treasury stocks 2,643,195 2.7 0 0.0 Total 97,343,863 100.0 3,974 100.0 BOD Composition (As of Dec. 31, 2016) Classification Name Responsibility/Additional Job Functions Note Inside director Mong-koo Chung Chairman & CEO Eui-sun Chung Vice Chairman Member of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Young-deuk Lim President & CEO Chair of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Yong-bin Han Chief Finance Officer Outside director Tae-woon Lee Senior Partner, The One Law Firm Member of Audit Committee Chair of Ethics Committee Byung-joo Lee Advisor at Bae, Kim & Lee (BKL) Law Firm Member of Audit Committee Member of Ethics Committee Member of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Ji-soo Yu President, Kookmin University Member of Audit Committee Member of Ethics Committee Member of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Woo-il Lee Professor, Seoul National University Member of Audit Committee Member of Ethics Committee Member of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Seung-ho Lee Advisor at Yulchon Law Chair of Audit Committee Member of Ethics Committee 66 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Independence of the BOD and Appointment of Directors Percentage of Outside Directors At Hyundai Mobis, outside directors account for the majority of the BOD to ensure its independence in accordance with the Commercial Act. As a person with related expertise and experience who has no special relationship of interest with Hyundai Mobis, an outside director is recommended by the Outside Director Recommendation Committee and appointed at the general shareholders’ meeting. The outside director is appointed only after the 55.6% Korea Exchange verifies the legal qualifications and independence of each 2016 candidate based on the submitted qualification certificate before approving (5/9 Persons) their appointment. Among the three BOD subcommittees, the Ethics Committee and the Audit Committee are comprised only of outside directors to ensure independence in their activities. Subcommittees Audit Committee Under the BOD are three subcommittees-an Audit Committee, Ethics ComThe Audit Committee audits general management activities and accounting mittee and Outside Director Recommendation Committee-all of which practices. The committee has the authority to request that directors report support BOD activities with their expertise in their respective areas under on operations and to examine the company’s financial status and operatheir own authority to monitor management activities in a transparent and tional practices. It convened a total of six meetings in 2016 to deliberate responsible manner. the audit results of the company’s financial statements, and review internal accounting control system operations. Ethics Committee The Ethics Committee is operated for the purpose of strengthening ethical Outside Director Recommendation Committee management and creating an ethical corporate culture by overseeing reThe Outside Director Recommendation Committee consists of both internal lated activities, including compliance programs, transactions with persons and outside directors and has the right to recommend candidates for outthat have special interests, and amendments and enforcements of the code side director positions. The recommended candidates are approved by the of ethics and important policies related to ethical management and social BOD before being appointed at the GSM. In 2016, the committee held three contributions. In 2016, the committee convened seven meetings to review meetings to fulfill its duties. social contributions and ethical management performance and plans, while also approving agenda items regarding financial transactions with the Group’s financial affiliates according to the provisions of contracts and the limits on transactions with the company’s largest shareholders. Starting from 2017, the committee will change its name to the Transparent Management Committee to reflect domestic and overseas shareholders’ opinions when making important management decisions that impact shareholder value, such as major asset acquisition and disposal, as well as expand the transparent decision-making structure by creating a new position in charge of protecting shareholders’ rights and interests. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 67 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Compliance In order to achieve sustainable growth by becoming a global top tier manufacturer in the auto parts industry, Hyundai Mobis implements compliance and ethical management practices that comply with laws, principles and ethical values. To achieve this, we prevent illegal, wrongful and unethical acts, while also establishing regulations and management systems to create transparent and fair working environments, with the expansion of diverse implementation programs. Hyundai Mobis will fulfill its CSR by improving its level of compliance and ethical management and inspire credibility in all stakeholders. Compliance System Compliance and Ethical Management System Hyundai Mobis established and operates a compliance and ethical manincluding an online reporting and consultation center, an information seagement system for its employees, customers and suppliers. Domestic and curity early warning system and a web-based risk management system for overseas employees comply with Hyundai Mobis’ global compliance guidepreventing wrongdoing. Besides this, we also contribute to the prevention lines and code of ethics while utilizing them to judge value and establish of illegal and unethical issues while enhancing fair trade practices, by adoptstandards. The dedicated compliance organization plans and implements ing a standard contract management system, standardizing internal control detailed action programs for prevention, inspection and improvement acprocedures and computerizing electronic contracts, bids/purchases and tivities. The Ethics Committee comprised of outside directors appoints a price decisions. compliance officer to ensure the creation of a more transparent and ethical corporate culture. To do this, we have in place various internal systems, Rule of Ethics Management organization ˙Global compliance guidelines ˙Compliance officer ˙Ethics charter ˙Ethics Committee ˙Code of conduct ˙Exclusive internal compliance organization ˙Code of ethics (practice guidelines) ˙Audit team Compliance and ethical management operation system System Program ˙Risk management system ˙Training/campaign ˙Early warning system ˙Progress inspection ˙Cyber auditor ˙Improvement/enhancement ˙Fair trade and ethical report/call center ˙Call center for sexual harassment 68 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Fair Trade Compliance Program Hyundai Mobis works to ensure the establishment of a fair trading order > Global Compliance Guidelines in recognition of fair trade and competition being the basis for sustainable growth. Accordingly, we adopted a Compliance Program (CP) as part of 02 Hyundai Mobis Global Compliance Guidelines Contents of the Guidelines 03 our bylaws for legal compliance in December 2002. The compliance officer Contents of the Guidelines serves as the chief facilitator of overseeing company-wide CP operations 1 Anti-corruption P.04 5 Employment P.34 and is appointed by the company’s highest decision-making body, the BOD. In order to ensure independence, the compliance officer is entrusted by the 2 Fair Transactions P.10 6 Environment P.38 CEO with the authority and responsibility to smoothly run all CP operations, 3 Customs duty P.22 7 Intellectual property P.44 including complying with company-wide fair trade laws and regulations as 4 Personal information protection P.30 8 Product safety P.50 well as activities to prevent law violations. Established to support the compliance officer, the CP bureau takes charge Hyundai Mobis has established global compliance guidelines to ensure of practical CP operations throughout the company, and provides expertise universal standards of behavior for employees. The global compliance related to CP activities in collaboration with the legal affairs team. The CP guidelines enacted in 2015 includes detailed action guidelines in 8 areas, including anti-corruption, fair trade, employment and environment. bureau and the legal affairs team contribute to efficient CP operations by Hyundai Mobis provided these guidelines in both Korean and English to being under the control of the compliance officer. ensure those working abroad become familiar with them, thereby enhancing employees’ ethical and compliance awareness and helping to prevent legal risks from arising as part of its efforts to eradicate unethical and illegal activity, as well as work towards creating a fair and transparent corporate culture. ※ Global compliance : http://en.mobis.co.kr/global/contentsid/2220/index.do ※ Code of Ethics : http://en.mobis.co.kr/ethics/contentsid/2218/index.do BOD Program Appointment CEO Compliance and Ethical Management Training Direct reporting Hyundai Mobis held compliance training to raise employee awareness about anti-corruption efforts in accordance with the Improper Solicitation Compliance Officer and Graft Act that came into effect on September 28, 2016. The training consists of information on the background and meaning of the Act, the main details and precautions for employees, which aim to prevent illegal acts in advance by reviewing and improving existing work practices. Also, CP Bureau Legal decision (Legal Team) (Business Coordination Team) in order to create a fair and transparent work environment, we provided compliance training programs required by different units of the company, << Enterprise-wide>> Fair Trade Compliance Activities including training related to the Fair Trade Act, Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act and labor law. Meanwhile, Hyundai Mobis is increasing training effectiveness by providing action guidelines based on situational examples that may arise during actual work duties and emphasizing the importance of ethical management. The situational examples are comprised of the following: reporting procedures and reward and punishment regulations; requests for pecuniary interests and prohibition of receipt; faithful and fair job performance; protection of the company’s assets and information; prevention of sexual harassment; prohibition of unfair equity investments related to suppliers; and transparency when selecting suppliers. Through these efforts, Hyundai Mobis’ employees establish behavioral standards for actual job duties and put into practice ethical management practices at work sites. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 69 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Compliance with Fair Transactions Signing of Fair Transaction Agreements Hyundai Mobis signs fair transaction agreements with its suppliers annually Activities to Review Compliance with Fair Transactions to support fair transactions and mutual growth. More specifically, we have a Hyundai Mobis systematically implements activities to review compliance list of major details contained within the Fair Transactions in Subcontracting with fair transactions to ensure that day-to-day job duties are free of any legal Act that the employee in charge must adhere to when trading with suppliviolation risks. A CP website is maintained to provide easy access for employers (four guidelines on subcontracts: contract signing management regulaees who need more information on fair transactions, allowing them to make tions, supplier registration and management regulations, internal review inquiries to the website if any CP issues arise while performing their duties. committee management regulations and document issuance and manageAlso, a checklist on the website allows employees to preemptively screen for ment regulations). In 2016, we signed eight rounds of agreements for fair legal risks. If and when they discover a risk(s), or are not sure about a particutransactions with 378 suppliers worth KRW 5.4 trillion. Moreover, we actively lar compliance issue, employees are advised to receive a preliminary review encouraged fair transaction agreements between primary and secondary through a legal support system in order to prevent any legal risks from arising. suppliers, resulting in 138 primary suppliers and 468 secondary suppliers The CP Bureau carries out company-wide prevention activities, such as identisigning such agreements. fying risk exposure of legal violations in each business division of the company regarding the Fair Trade Act and Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act, and reviewing and improving job performance on a regular basis. Moreover, we CP Training Performance Results (Unit: persons) frequently engage inactivities to improve job performance in accordance with Classification 2016 changes to government policies and amendments. Divisions with high risks of legal violations 1,647 Open recruitment/experienced new employees 486 Training on Compliance with Fair Transactions Working-level training on fair transactions 47 Hyundai Mobis offers regular training on fair transactions to raise employee Executive training 2 awareness of the CP, with training performance reported to the BOD bianOnline compliance training 607 nually. We provide CP training for employees with duties related to fair trade laws and regulations, while also ensuring that working-level employees in charge of fair transactions receive specialized external training courses regularly to understand trends in policies and laws and enhance their expertise in CP-related areas. In addition, the new employee orientation program includes entry-level training on fair transactions to help new recruits realize the importance of complying with the Fair Trade Act. In 2016, a total of 2,771 employees completed CP training. Compliance and Ethical Management Training Process Raising employees’ compliance awareness for compliance and ethical management Level-up training Regular training Advanced training Raising demand awareness by job position Be aware of code of conduct by job position Developing demand quality by policy and major issue Director Fostering core talent Team leader New Risk Manager PurProSupQualOverSales chasducR&D Assistant manager port ity seas Employees in charge by field ing tion Administrative Assistant Orientation training: ensuring that Hyundai Mobis’ employees internalize the company’s compliance and ethical management value systems and regulations New employees Experienced employees 70 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Sexual Harassment Prevention Training Information Security Training In order to create a healthy corporate culture without sexual harassment, Hyundai Mobis has established information security regulations and guideHyundai Mobis provides special training to prevent sexual harassment. lines in accordance with the international information security management In 2016, we classified trainees by job position and gender to differentiate system (ISO 27001). In particular, since acquiring the ISO 27001 certificate course curriculums, while also maximizing the effect of training by fostering for international standards in 2008, we have conducted surveillance audits internal training staff. As for team leaders, we provide special training on twice a year and renewal audits once every three years at the Technical developing basic precepts and advice on case studies of sexual harassment Centers responsible for research and development of core technologies and and how to handle such cases. Additionally, we distributed guidebooks to at the Jincheon plant that produces advanced electronic devices for cars. As team managers for sexual harassment consultations so that the effects of a result, we are equipped with an information security system suitable for a such training can be increased through behavioral standards. Besides this, global automotive parts company. In addition, we have raised the security we also set up online training courses to allow workers from small-sized awareness of all employees by providing information security training, as regional worksites and those on business trips and vacations to take the well as strengthening compliance with information regulations and rules. In course, as well as making sexual harassment training mandatory during ori2016, we provided guidance and support for the information security duties entation training of new and experienced employees, thereby highlighting of 335 suppliers that grow together with the company, while also providing the company’s strong desire to prevent sexual harassment at the workplace. information security training for IT staff of suppliers to achieve a win-win partnership in information security. Going forward, Hyundai Mobis will become global top tier producer of auto parts by strengthening in-house information security to achieve mutual growth. Status of Compliance and Ethical Management Training Classification 2016 No. of trainees Hours of training Offline training Ethical and Anti-corruption training 6,839 7,081 Fair trade training 2,180 4,243 Information security training 8,779 8,779 Sexual harassment training 8,940 8,940 Online training Compliance training 591 4,728 Total 27,329 33,771 Efforts to Spread a Fair and Transparent Corporate Culture Compliance Pledge > As an employee of Hyundai Mobis, I agree to comply with laws and the Hyundai Mobis is striving to create a consensus on compliance and ethical company’s ethics code and pledge to faithfully carry out the following management among employees and reinforce transparency in work proin order to fulfill the company’s CSR and achieve sustainable growth: cesses. In 2016, we handled of 37 cases of ethical code violations reported 1. I shall always comply with laws and the company’s regulations and shall not comand also implemented various activities to raise awareness. By spreading mit, order, approve or aid any illegal acts, including unfair transactions, unfair internal transactions, unfair subcontracts and unfair collective practices. the top management’s commitment to compliance and ethical manage2. I shall not commit any unfair/corrupt practices that might hinder the fair execution of my job duties as they relate to all stakeholders, including improper solicitation, ment to the entire workforce, Hyundai Mobis aims to create a transparent provision of bribery, entertainment, gifts and other business courtesies. and fair corporate culture, as well as encouraging active participation from 3. I shall not disclose the company’s trade secrets or relevant information without consent and refrain from using them for personal gain. employees by introducing compliance pledges with details that must be 4. I shall do my best to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace, including any sexual harassment practices that might make the other party uncomfortable or followed when compliance management practices are implemented. Morefeel humiliated visually, verbally or physically. over, in order to prevent unethical acts like bribery during holidays or sum5. I shall comply with all safety-related laws and standards and do my best to prevent industrial disasters and accidents. mer vacations, we have introduced procedures for reporting violations and 6. In cases where this Pledge is not adhered to, I shall take full responsibility in accordance with relevant laws and the company’s regulations. provide action guidelines for employees and suppliers, while also making efforts to create a clean corporate culture that highlights compliance and ethical management. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 71 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Risk Management Risks are factors that have a huge impact on short-term management performance and sustainable growth for the future. Since changes to domestic and overseas management environments are likely to bring uncertainties and risks, systematic management and timely responses are the key conditions for determining a successful or failing business. Hyundai Mobis has continuously developed its risk management system and strives to minimize negative effects by responding quickly if a problem arises. As a result, we are able to detect a variety of risk factors in advance and operate a systematic management system that analyzes and responds to risks. Additionally, we are improving our responsiveness so that risks can be resolved quickly through collaboration among different divisions. Risk Management System Risk Management Organization Risk Management IT System Hyundai Mobis operates a company-wide integrated risk management Since 2013, Hyundai Mobis has prevented risk factors arising in advance by system within the Planning Department to manage risks under the manhaving its global risk control tower take immediate countermeasures. The agement’s supervision at management meetings. We also provide a procontrol tower monitors domestic and overseas worksites in real-time to prefessional response process through a response organization for different vent risk factors and stop risks from spreading across the enterprise. Also, risks to ensure timely responses under any and all circumstances. If there is major trends are regularly reported to the management to support timely a serious risk arising that cannot be resolved by an individual organization, decision making. Additionally, we conduct follow up analysis for existing the relevant divisions take action together to handle risks through comparisks to ensure more appropriate measures can be taken if similar cases ocny-wide competencies. Cases where a prompt decision is required from cur in the future. Meanwhile, in order to identify and respond to different management are handled by reporting the issue quickly through a relevant risk factors in advance, it is essential for employees to share information hotline. promptly. Hyundai Mobis has prevented problems from arising by effectively sharing information on economic and industrial trends regarding major risks through the company-wide central documentation system (M-Cloud) set up in 2015. Moreover, we minimize damage from risk factors by encoursing cooperation by relevant divisions in real time on major issues of global operations through the EIS (Executive Information System) for different business areas. Risk Control Tower System Data Data integration Monitoring and reporting Company-wide sharing of management Line status Domestic information in real time plants Actual production Risk Production/inventory status control tower Prompt and accurate decision-making monitoring Overseas Operations ratio plants Field quality indicator Risk response Real-time information system 72 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Key Risk Management Risk Management and Response by Type Hyundai Mobis evaluates risks based on their seriousness, possible occurHyundai Mobis analyzes and manages potential risk factors by type. The rence and influence to define those with high importance as key risks. Afterrisks associated with economic and industrial environments that have an wards, they are classified using an index-based management approach and impact on business, such as changes in market conditions and geopolita manual-based management approach. The index-based management ical issues, are regularly reported to the management. Financial risks are approach analyzes trends through a KRI (key risk indicator) monitoring sysmanaged by controlling exchange rate exposure risk arising from foreign tem to verify causes, with risks classified into the four levels of concern, currency-denominated bonds and debts, net cash flows and debt ratio analwarning, caution and serious risk based on analysis results to differentiate ysis. Social/environmental/ regulatory risks also fall under our control to countermeasures. The manual-based management approach suggests ensure compliance with fair transactions, while a system for management of countermeasures for different situations to ensure prompt responses to global environmental regulations and climate change responses has been emergencies. In 2016, we expanded the number of key risks from six to established to provide diverse countermeasures. In order to minimize the eight to widen the scope of risk management and strengthen preventive possibility of irregularities or errors in business activities caused by employand comprehensive response measures. ees, we operate a web-based risk management system that allows us to take timely measures if risk factors are detected. As for risks that cannot be detected in advance such as natural disasters, we have set up different scenarios for each possible scenario to minimize the possible damage and take preventive measures. In the event of an emergency that cannot be dealt with alone, interdepartmental collaboration is in place to handle the 2016 Key Risks situation across the enterprise. Indicator risks Manual risks 01 Exchange rate fluctuation 03 Natural disasters 02 External reputation 04 Fire and safety accidents 05 Leakage of confidential technology 06 Massive recalls 07 Policy risk 08 Sustainability risk > Examples of Countermeasures to Major Risks in 2016 Logistics failure Natural disaster Natural disaster Court Earthquake Typhoon receivership September-December 2016 September 2016 October 2016 Investigation and Response to Container Status Investigation and Response to Activities Following Investigation and Response to Activities for the Regarding a Logistics Crisis Due to Hanjin Shipping’s the Earthquake in Gyeongju Typhoon Chaba Court Receivership On the evening of September 12, 2016, an earthquake of 5.8 magnitude occurred In October 2016, Korea suffered extensive damage from typhoon Chaba that In September 2016, a global logistics crisis arose due to Hanjin Shipping’s in Gyeongju, which was the region’s strongest since earthquake observations hit the southern region of the peninsula. Hyundai Mobis promptly responded court receivership. Hyundai Mobis set up an emergency response team led began. Hyundai Mobis promptly identified the occurrence of the earthquake to the typhoon through its control tower based on provisions in the manual, by top management to quickly identify the status of the company’s logistics through its control tower, which notified relevant divisions and examined damby quickly notifying relevant divisions of progress update on hourly basis for imports and exports, ensuring the early prevention of supply failures. We conage status by worksite. Due to quick on-site responses based on work manual worksites located in the typhoon impact zone. As a result, we minimized damducted daily progress monitoring and handled reorders of items that were guidelines and management reporting, it was discovered that Hyundai Mobis’ age caused by the natural disaster with only minor damage related to ceiling likely to be affected, while also making emergency countermeasures that work sites only suffered from small cracks in some buildings, with no casualties. leaks and rainwater inflow at some worksites. The damaged worksites were involved air freight with a dedicated organization in charge until the end of Moreover, worksites that suffered from cracks were quickly repaired to complete quickly restored to ensure normal operations. the crisis. As a result, we were able to resolve risks for all manufactured parts the restoration process. We also conducted special safety inspections on all dowithout any logistics failures. mestic worksites to detect and resolve risks in their early stages. MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 73 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Social Contributions Hyundai Mobis’ social contribution activities are aimed at achieving its CSR and enhancing the company’s values. In addition, as an affiliate of Hyundai Motor Group, Hyundai Mobis strives to achieve sustainable growth for the future with its stakeholders by reflecting the Hyundai Motor Group’s social contribution vision and strategy. In this regard, Hyundai Mobis focused on Hyundai Motor Group’s 2016 new social contribution strategy that involved a transformation from the Four MOVE Campaigns that emphasized mobility to the Six MOVE Campaigns that encourage change and advancement in diverse areas. We plan to revise our existing strategy and launch DREAM MOVE in 2017 and NEXT MOVE in 2018 in consecutive order. Moreover, we plan to modify and supplement the Four MOVE Campaigns to suit our new strategy. SAFE MOVE_Transparent Umbrella Campaign Method of Distributing Transparent Umbrellas In order to reduce the risks of car accidents involving children on rainy days, Applying for Transparent Umbrellas Hyundai Mobis has taken a leading role in the Transparent Umbrella CamThe Transparent Umbrella Program is open to all Korean citizens. Individpaign to distribute about 700,000 transparent umbrellas to a total of 1,091 uals can apply with anecdotes about traffic safety for children, with some schools from 2010 to 2016. We used strong and light fabrics for the transapplicants receiving transparent umbrellas to promote children’s safety on parent umbrellas so that children can carry them easily, using semi-glossy the roads. materials so that drivers can see them from far away. Meanwhile, Hyundai Mobis is expanding campaigns that include utilization Traffic Safety Training for Children of the Transparent Umbrella Program, traffic safety training programs for Traffic safety training is held for students of elementary schools selected for children and UCC contests for these two programs, as well as making efforts participation in the transparent umbrella sharing contest. We also support to spread a culture of traffic safety for children by planning a participatory traffic safety training by traffic safety specialists from the Korea Road Traffic program with contests. Authority. UCC Contests for Children’s Traffic Safety Training and Transparent Umbrella Program In line with the development of user created content, Hyundai Mobis supports the production and sharing of traffic safety videos that reflect innovative ideas from the public regarding children’s traffic safety. The winners of the contest are given a small cash prize and the opportunity to distribute transparent umbrellas under his/her name. Status of Sharing Transparent Umbrellas Number of schools Number of individuals Amount of distribution 113,300 105,000 103,000 277 187 120 80 2014 2015 2016 ※ Starting from 2016, transparent umbrellas were distributed not only to schools, but also to selected individuals. The winner of the UCC Contest for Sharing Transparent Umbrellas in 2016 was Haramyi’s ※ 2016: Distributed to 80 schools and 277 persons who submitted with traffic-safety related stories Story about Transparent Umbrellas 74 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix HAPPY MOVE_Junior Engineering Class Textbooks Since 2005, Hyundai Mobis has been running a Junior Engineering Class Hyundai Mobis developed textbooks for the junior engineering class in cofor Children to instill dreams and hope in children who will become future operation with Hanyang University’s Youth Science & Technology Center scientists and contribute to developing basic science knowledge within and the National Academy of Engineering of Korea. This textbook featured local communities. This program comprises the following: a regular junior technology developed by auto parts companies in a manner suitable for chilengineering class held in elementary schools close to worksites; a junior dren, including the lane keeping assist system and autonomous emergency engineering class for customers that offers learnings experiences at motor braking, enabling children to take an interest in the principles of automobile shows and other marketing events; and a visiting junior engineering class safety and science. Going forward, we plan to develop textbooks about rethat brings science education to students across the nation by utilizing a cent technologies in line with the development of automobile technologies dedicated science bus. In 2016, we held classes at 33 schools with 5,315 such as hydrogen fuel cell vehicles for use in educational programs. students in attendance, with 380 employees participating as lecturers. Going forward, Hyundai Mobis plans to widen the scope of its activities so that Introduction of Representative Textbooks more children can get access to science education. Name of textbooks Application technology Safe Car Autonomous Emergency Braking Smart Car Lane Keeping Assistance System Expanding Opportunities for Science Education Solar power vehicles Solar batteries Hyundai Mobis promotes science education for children across the nation so that they can learn easily. The visiting junior engineering class is not only for students of elementary schools near Hyundai Mobis’ worksites, but also Progress of Junior Engineering Class in 2016 (Unit: schools, persons) for children across the nation. We utilized science buses to visit the selected elementary schools and hold science lectures, as well as staging particClassification No. of No. of No. of beneficiary participating instructors ipatory science classes using textbooks. Hyundai Mobis worked to provide schools students children from diverse backgrounds access to different forms of science edRegular junior engineering class 12 2,646 356 ucation through the visiting junior engineering class. In 2017, we plan to Junior engineering class with 802 24 customers provide the class to children on Jeju Island. Visiting junior engineering class 21 1,867 Number of schools Number of students Seoul Gangwon Gyeongin 4 281 1 96 12 1,323 Chungcheong 4 256 Visiting junior engineering class’ field trip to worksites Gyeongsang Jeolla 9 639 3 362 Safe Car Smart Car MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 75 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix EASY MOVE_Supporting the Mobility of Disabled GREEN MOVE_Hyundai Mobis Forest Children In order to preserve and restore resources for the development of local communities and future generations, Hyundai Mobis has created the Hyundai In order to enhance mobility and increase opportunities of social participaMobis Forest, an eco-friendly forest of 1 million ㎡ in Chopyeong-myeon, tion for physically-challenged children, Hyundai Mobis has provided mobility Jincheon-gun. We provide diverse forest experience programs, including aids for disabled children since 2014. Additionally, we support rehabilitation forest concerts, wetland experiences and ecological classes for families, treatment expenses and organize family trips for disabled children with emallowing participation by diverse stakeholders, including local residents, ployees as volunteers. Moreover, we published books featuring children’s agencies and employees. Also, we plan to implement a forest carbon offset stories to raise awareness of the disabled and distribute these books to program as part of our social contribution activities on an area of 8.23ha for regional children’s centers and disabled welfare centers across the nation. forest rejuvenation. Supporting Assistive Devices and Rehabilitation Treatment Forest Carbon Offset Program Hyundai Mobis provides support for mobility, such as Easy Move’s lightweight baby carriage for disabled children and a multi-purpose posture Hyundai Mobis began to create the Hyundai Mobis Forest as part of its chair. In addition, we pay for rehabilitation treatment expenses for both eco-friendly social contribution programs that take into consideration the covered and non-covered treatments at medical institutions, so that 30 chilstrengthening of regulations on climate change issues, GHG emissions and dren received benefits in 2016. Hyundai Mobis plans to improve the mobility the development of eco-friendly products. Additionally, we are implementrights of disabled children by expanding this program. ing a forest carbon offset program by reforesting 8.23ha of land where the forest is located, which is expected to be symbolic domestically and internaHyundai Mobis’ Family Trip for Disabled Children tionally in connection with offsetting GHG emissions. Currently, 4,819 pine Hyundai Mobis provides support for disabled children to go on family trips, trees have been planted and managed at the site, with the annual forest who normally find it difficult to travel due to mobility issues and negative carbon uptake estimated to be 31.1tCO2. stereotypes. An employee who volunteers will go along as a helper during each trip to help the family create meaningful memories and promote rehaHyundai Mobis’ Forest Program bilitation. As a result, 17 employees volunteered to accompany 15 families Hyundai Mobis’ Bloombloom Concert composded of 59 people on healing trips to Yangpyeong and Gwangju in Hyundai Mobis holds concerts for local residents under different themes Gyeonggi-do in 2016. In addition, Hyundai Mobis gave aways gifts in the annually at the outdoor concert hall of the Hyundai Mobis Forest. As a repform of hope packages at the end of year to provide disabled children with resentative corporate sponsorship program, Hyundai Mobis’ bloombloom daily necessities. concert features acoustic music that can be enjoyed by families with beautiful mountains and lakes as a natural background. Fairytales Published to Raise Awareness of the Disabled In order to reduce negative stereotypes of the disabled in society, Hyundai Forest Experience Programs Mobis has published fairytales written by Jeongwook Ko, who has suffered In order to promote the philosophy of creating forests for stakeholders, from a severe physical disability since 2014. In 2016, we published a fairytale Hyundai Mobis operates diverse environmental experience programs, incalled ‘Don’t Call Me Sister’ and distributed 2,800 copies of the book, and cluding wetland experiences for elementary school students, ecological held a book report contest for the children of employees to improve their experiences for families, and an annual bird fest, allowing participants to understand how nature and people can co-exist together. We also offer a awareness of the disabled. free program for regular visitors to walk through the forest with a forest specialist and enjoy the beautiful scenery of the Hyundai Mobis Forest. Status of Supporting the Mobility Assistance of Disabled Children (accumulated) Rehabilitation treatment (persons) Assistive devices (persons) Distributing fairytale books to improve awareness about the disabled (books) 7,900 5,100 175 1,800 100 50 34 2 4 2014 2015 2016 76 Hyundai Mobis’ Forest Experience Program Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Direction of Global Social Contribution Activities Promoting Social Contribution Activities in China Hyundai Mobis’ engages in social contribution programs that reflect Hyundai Hyundai Mobis launched a social contribution council at its Chinese subMotor Group’s CSR vision and philosophy at both its domestic and overseas sidiary to effectively engage in social contribution activities in the region. subsidiaries. Most of these programs contribute to local communities by imIn order to strengthen its ability to carry out social contribution activities in plementing both small and large contribution activities from an early stage, China and encourage business exchanges between employees at the head such as sponsorship through sisterhood ties and scholarships. In 2013, the office and its Chinese subsidiary, a social contribution council is held twice transparent umbrella program first started off at Jiangsu Hyundai Mobis Aua year, once during the first half and once during the second half. In 2016, tomotive Parts Co., Ltd. to implement the Four MOVE Campaign. In 2016, we we invited local employees who made social contributions in China to share reduced the risks of car accidents involving children on rainy days by disstrategies, discuss the status of domestic social contribution activities and tributing about 20,000 transparent umbrellas to children in Beijing, Tianjin, have them participate in junior engineering classes as lecturers. We also enJiangsu, Shanghai and Wuxi. Since 2014, we started junior engineering classcouraged them to participate in Hyundai Mobis’ forest experience program. es in Jiangsu to strengthen our ties with local communities and promote Going forward, we will continue to develop diverse programs that reflect the science education for children. In 2016, we held junior engineering classes characteristics of corporations in China through continuous exchanges and for the first time in Europe together with the European Technical Center in ensure more employees take part in the programs. Germany, as well as offering temporary classes on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Hyundai Pony exports to Ecuador as part of an event held together with Hyundai Motor. Based on these achievments, we will work hard to expand junior engineering classes to China, Europe and the Americas. Temporary junior engineering class at Schule am Ried in Germany Transparent umbrella program held at Jiangsu Hyundai Mobis Automotive Parts Co., Ltd. Global Social Contribution Activities Children Local communities Disaster relief Canada Czech Republic Russia Slovakia U.S. Turkey UAE China India Brazil Australia MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 77 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Appendix Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix P. 80 P. 81 P. 82 Sustainable Management Employees Management Performance Practices P. 83 P. 84 P. 85 Win-Win Social Environmental Partnership Contribution Management P. 86 P. 87 P. 89 GHG Assurance Third Party GRI Index Statement Assurance Statement Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Sustainable Management Practices UN Global Compact Since July 2, 2008, Hyundai Mobis has been a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Initiated in 2000 by then-UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the UNGC was designed to encourage businesses around the world to adopt sustainable and socially responsible business activities consisting of 10 principles in four business management areas-human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Hyundai Mobis upholds all 10 UNGC principles in all of its business activities and has provided information about the company’s performance in these areas through this report. The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Classification Description Reporting Pages Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 57~58 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Classification Labor Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 61~63 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. 35~36 Anti-corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 68~71 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Classification Contents Applicable page Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere 76 Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for everyone, regardless of age 76 Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 75 Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 57 Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 35~36 Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent jobs for all 53 Goal 9 Establish infrastructure with restorative force and facilitate inclusive and sustainable industrialization to encourage innovation 42~43 Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 76 Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 76, 61~63 Goal 14 Conserve and use the oceans, seas, and marine resources for sustainable development 76, 61~63 Goal 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainable forest management, combat desertification, and 76, 61~63 halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable 61~63, 49~51 and inclusive institutions at all levels Goal 17 Expand global partnerships to strengthen transportation means and achieve sustainable development 80~81 Evaluation results and awards received for sustainable management Hyundai Mobis participated in a number of socially responsible investment (SRI) review programs in support of its social, environmental, ethical and other CSR performance and financial performance results, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and KOBEX SM, to name but a few. Hyundai Mobis then considered the feedback it was given and compared its CSR practices with those of domestic and overseas best practices to further enhance stakeholder value. Awards details Description Date Listed to the 2016 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) World Oct. 2016 Received the 2016 Korean Standards Association’s President Award as Korea’s most loved company government prize Nov. 2016 Ranked no.1 in auto parts for 2016 evaluation of the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI) Jul. 2016 Received the 2016 Korea Innovative Entrepreneur Grand Prize for sustainability management Sep. 2016 80 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Major Association and Organization Status Organization Purpose of joining Federation of Korean Industries Exchange of information on business management, collaboration on CSR activities Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mandatory requirement by law to join this chamber, issuance of import and export documents, etc. Korea Employer’s Federation Collaboration to establish labor-management system and discuss on policies, etc. Korea Auto Industries Coop. Association Collaboration among relevant companies for the advancement of the automotive industry Fair Competition Federation Exchange of information and opinions among government agencies and member companies for compliance on fair trade guidelines UN Global Compact Korea Network Commitment to abide by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Korea International Trade Association Acquire trade information and propose policies regarding export, tariff, etc. Korea Economic Research Institute Research on short-term and long-term issues relevant to the development of the Korean economy and the country’s companies Korea Automotive Recyclers Association Promotion of improved environmental protection efforts by the auto industry and recycling of automobiles Korea Industrial Technology Association Improved technology cooperation network and strengthened technology innovation capacity Korean Society of Automotive Engineers Advancement of automotive technologies through the active exchange of information concerning relevant technologies Korean Academy of Motor Industry Advancement of the automotive industry through seminars and networking between experts Management Performance Business Result (Unit: KRW million) 2014 2015 2016 Sales 35,126,612 36,019,749 38,261,745 Gross profit 5,123,204 5,147,830 5,295,726 Operating income 3,141,242 2,934,571 2,904,692 Earnings before taxes 4,659,004 4,212,662 4,111,171 Net income 3,392,512 3,040,049 3,047,282 Financial Conditions (Unit: KRW million) 2014 2015 2016 Total assets 39,111,916 37,774,833 41,711,608 Cash & Equivalents 2,911,441 2,497,886 2,049,303 Liabilities 15,825,813 12,098,593 13,153,619 Borrowings 2,856,450 3,219,201 3,290,730 Equity capital 23,286,103 25,676,240 28,557,989 Shareholders’ equity 491,096 491,096 491,096 Debt-to-Equity ratio 68.0% 47.1% 46.1% MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 81 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Employees All data in the tables below (except for the number of overseas employees) covers only domestic operations as of December 31, 2016. Employment (Unit: persons) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Domestic 8,170 8,672 9,225 Overseas 14,672 16,544 20,274 Total 22,842 25,216 29,499 Wages and Fringe Benefit Expenses (Unit: KRW million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Total Annual Wages 693,863 736,729 747,810 Per-employee Average Wages 86 90 86 Retirement Benefits 50,501 63,827 63,117 Fringe Benefit Expenses 132,165 134,819 144,893 ※ Wages and fringe benefit expenses were taken from the Sales and Administrative Expenses and Other Accounts from the company’s non-consolidated financial statements. ※ New employee wages are higher than the legal minimum rate, with Hyundai Mobis employee wages determined solely on job grades and work conditions, not by gender. ※ Hyundai Mobis has adopted a defined benefits type of corporate pension fund for employees. They can choose either a lump-sum payment or retirement pension. The company plans on gradually increasing each employee’s share of the pension so that their benefits can grow in the future. Status of Retired Employees Classification 2014 2015 2016 Retired employees (including regular retirement/persons) 126 168 193 No. of retirement by age 3 40 38 ※ Status of retired employees changed by including regular retirement and other retirees. Disabled Employment Classification 2014 2015 2016 No. of hired persons 138 137 132 Employment percentage 1.70 1.60 1.48 Union Shops Classification 2014 2015 2016 No. of Employees Qualified for Union Membership 4,948 5,157 5,336 Percentage of Membership to Total Workforce 60.6 58.3 56.9 ※ New employees become members of the labor union as soon as they join the company, with the Collective Bargaining Agreement disqualifying employees who are above the managerial level, labor relations staff, accounting staff, executives and their secretaries and chauffeurs, standby staff for the Korean Workplace Reserve Forces and Civil Defense, employees in the Production Control Tower, interns, temporary workers, part-time workers, special-position staff, senior researchers and those more senior, guards, communications staff, general affairs staff, legal affairs staff, and other employees whom labor and management have agreed to disqualify. ※ Issues subject to advanced notification as stipulated in Articles 39 and 40 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement are: mergers, conveyances, and any company-related spin-off, which requires union notification 90 days prior to the event/outsourcing or contracting of all or part of production, while research and/or auto parts businesses require notice be given to theunion notice 60 days prior to preparing such plans, with the union needing to be told immediately of any reassignments or retraining of personnel due to business and/or technical reasons. No. of Consultations Held between the Labor and Management Annually Classification 2014 2015 2016 No. of times collective bargaining held annually 65 37 48 No. of times labor-management meeting is held annually 12 8 8 82 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Loss Time from Occupational Accidents Classification 2014 2015 2016 Note No. of injuries 4 1 5 Absence loss per 10,000 employees (%) 8.3 4.9 7.0 The number of days of lost work per 10,000 annually Health Check-ups Classification 2014 2015 2016 Basic health check-ups 5,769 6,753 7,073 Comprehensive health check-ups No. of employees 1,654 1,566 1,712 No. of spouses and family members 1,130 1,057 1,127 Total amount of subsidies (KRW million) 844 677 776 ※ In addition to basic health check-ups, Hyundai Mobis also supports comprehensive health check-ups to enhance the welfare of its employees. In the case of employees who are over 35 years old, we pay for 50 percent of the cost of comprehensive health check-ups for the employee, their spouse and family members. In addition, we pay for comprehensive health check-ups for employees on a five-year basis. Win-Win Partnership Domestic and Overseas Primary Suppliers Classification 2014 2015 2016 No. of companies Purchase amount No. of companies Purchase amount No. of companies Purchase amount (KRW 100 million) (KRW 100 million) (KRW 100 million) North America 27 6,510 27 9,068 28 7,222 Europe 29 5,865 29 4,084 26 4,538 China 212 23,768 237 14,425 278 16,799 India 24 2,291 24 2,315 24 2,020 Russia 3 116 3 126 9 95 Brazil 13 315 13 544 13 391 Turkey 6 470 6 960 11 447 Mexico 28 615 Korea 869 140,046 881 131,882 859 136,159 Total 1,183 179,381 1,220 163,404 1,276 168,286 Fair Trade Agreement & Mutual Growth Programs Classification 6th 7th 8th Period 2014.1.1 ~ 2014.12.31 2015.1.1 ~ 2015.12.31 2016.1.1 ~ 2016.12.31 No. of Signatories 443 454 377 Purchase Amount (KRW 100 million) 54,491 60,876 50,410 MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 83 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Social Contribution Donations by year (Unit: KRW million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Amount of donation 15,124 19,014 17,255 Characteristics of donation (Unit: %) Social Welfare Education/Research Culture, Arts Environment Global Programs Others 42 22 12 15 4 5 Details of Employees’ Volunteer Activities Classification 2014 2015 2016 Number of participating targets 7,373 8,672 9,225 Number of participants 3,790 2,997 3,175 No. of volunteer groups 114 107 119 Volunteer hours 13,041 11,791 10,633 Per-employee volunteer hours 1.77 1.36 1.23 84 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Environmental Management ISO14001 Certification of Domestic Operations Classification Eligible operations Certified operations Certification rate Plants Domestic 18 18 100 Overseas 20 11 55 Parts sales offices 29 29 100 Total 67 58 87 Materials Used by Weight or Volume INPUT Classification Region Amount of raw materials used Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared to 2015(%) Raw Materials Domestic Metals tons 321,610 305,007 224,723 -26.3% Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 1.743 1.599 1.132 -29.2% Domestic Plastics tons 11,613 27,387 41,501 51.5% Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 0.063 0.144 0.209 45.6% Domestic Solvents tons 5,781 4,328 3,974 -8.2% Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 0.031 0.023 0.020 -11.8% Energy Total Domestic/overseas energy consumption TJ 5,622 5,906 6,876 16.4% Consumption intensity TJ/KRW 100 million 0.016 0.016 0.018 9.6% Domestic energy consumption TJ 2,124 2,268 2,419 6.7% Overseas energy consumption TJ 3,498 3,638 4,457 22.5% Domestic Electricity TJ 1,955 2,073 2,210 6.6% Overseas Electricity TJ 3,034 3,222 3,966 23.1% Domestic Fuels (city gas, propane, other oil) TJ 169 195 209 7.2% Overseas Fuel TJ 431 379 451 19.0% Overseas Other(steam) TJ 33 36 40 11.1% Water Domestic Total volume of water resources used 1,000 tons 1,099 824 598 -27.5% resources Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 6.0 4.3 3.0 -30.3% OUTPUT Classification Region Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change compared to 2015(%) GHG Total GHG emissions tCO2eq 278,361 292,234 339,701 16.2% Consumption intensity tCO2eq/KRW 100 million 0.8 0.8 0.9 9.4% Domestic GHG emissions tCO2eq 105,238 112,350 119,628 6.5% Overseas GHG emissions tCO2eq 173,123 179,884 220,073 22.3% Waste & Domestic Waste emissions volume (designated/general) tons 19,533 18,176 15,127 -16.8% recycling Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 0.11 0.10 0.08 -20.0% Recycled amount tons 11,787 9,692 7,894 -18.6% Recycling rate % 60.3% 53.3% 52.2% -2.1% Landfill rate % 5.5% 4.8% 3.1% -36.0% Incineration rate % 34.2% 41.8% 44.7% 6.8% Air pollutants Domestic Air pollutant generation by year tons 46.0 51.9 7.5 -85.5% Consumption intensity kg/KRW 100 million 0.2 0.3 0.0 -86.0% NOx ppm 1.2 3.3 0.0 -100.0% SOx ppm 1.1 2.9 0.0 -100.0% Dusts mg/m³ 3.3 3.6 3.0 -16.7% Water Domestic Total volume of water pollutants tons 23.3 11.5 6.4 -44.4% pollutants Consumption intensity kg/KRW 100 million 0.13 0.06 0.03 -46.6% Water quality Domestic BOD ppm 17.7 13.7 9.2 -32.8% at wastewater COD ppm 29.6 29.1 20.5 -29.6% treatment facilities TN ppm 8.4 10.2 10.6 3.9% SS ppm 11.5 5.6 8.2 46.4% MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 85 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix GHG Assurance Statement Terms of Engagement Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai Mobis to provide independent assurance on its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory Report for the calendar year 2016 (the report) against GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea using Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions. The report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions. Management Responsibility LRQA's responsibility is only to Hyundai Mobis. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. The management of Hyundai Mobis is responsible for preparing the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over all the data and information within the report. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Hyundai Mobis. LRQA's Approach LRQA's assurance engagement has been carried out in accordance with our verification procedure using GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to reasonable level of assurance. • Visiting sites and auditing management system to control the data and records regarding GHG emissions and energy uses • Interviewing the relevant persons responsible for managing and maintaining data and associated records • Reviewing the historical data and information back to source for the calendar year 2016. Level of Assurance & Materiality The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance, and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier and at the materiality level of 5%. LRQA's Opinion Bnsed on LRQA's approach, we believe that the report is prepared in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea and the GHG emissions data in the Table 1 is materially correct. 17 March 2017 Sang-Keun YOO On behalf of Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Korea LRQA Reference: SEO 6014771 GHG emissions reported in the Report Scope (as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea) 2016 Direct GHG Emissions 12,295 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 107,333 Total GHG Emissions 119,628 ※ Data is presented in tonnes of CO equivalent. 2 Lloyd's Register Group Limited , its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The Korean version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd's Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2016. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group 86 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Third Party Assurance Statement To All Hyundai Mobis Stakeholders Hyundai Mobis commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) to provide independent assurance of its 2017 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). Responsibility and Independence Hyundai Mobis is entirely responsible for the reliability and accuracy of all information and opinions presented in this Report. The Assurer is responsible solely for providing third party verification of the content in the Report. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the process of preparing this Report with Hyundai Mobis, nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine our independence. Assurance Standard The independent verification process was planned and performed in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Standards to provide a Type 1 moderate level of assurance. This was achieved through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000 APS (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness. Furthermore, assurance was performed to ascertain the organization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines in preparing and presenting sustainability performance information. Assurance Limitations Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer verified the organization’s sustainability performance in 2016. The reliability of financial data in the Report was verified by crosschecking financial statements and disclosure information (as it was audited by an independent auditor), with some data, such as GHG data and information linked with the company’s website, verified for its reliability by referring to a third party assurance statement. Site inspection was also performed, in a limited scope, on Hyundai Mobis’ headquarters in Seoul. As a result, the Assurer clearly states that any future verification may produce varied results. Assurance Methodology The assurance was undertaken with the methodology specified below: 1. We verified if the Report satisfies the requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines’ Core Option. 2. We verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of the Report based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. 3. ‌We verified the objectivity and appropriateness of all selected key issues and content in the Report by reviewing media reports and performing a benchmark analysis. 4. ‌We verified any consistencies and errors with the information presented in the Report by comparing and analyzing the same information from different sources. 5. ‌We verified the basis of data and information collection by performing an onsite inspection at Hyundai Mobis’ headquarters in Seoul, and also verified all internal processes and systems. 6. ‌The scope and boundaries of the assurance process has been conducted according to the boundaries of the time period, region, and value chain of the Report. Therefore, the scope of the assurance process meets 100% coverage of the non-consolidated revenue of the company, and data regarding the supply chain has not been included unless specified. Findings and Conclusions It is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report presents Hyundai Mobis’ sustainability efforts and performance results in a fair and accurate way. In addition, the Assurer verified that the Report met the Core Option requirements for the GRI G4 Guidelines. In terms of the general standard disclosures, the Assurer verified that the Report was written in compliance with the requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines’ Core Option. The Assurer reviewed all specific standard disclosures of material issues against the aspects and indicators as identified from the process of determining the report content as follows. Material Issues Aspects DMA & Indicators Secure Technological Competitiveness Products & Services DMA-Future Core Technology EN27 Increase global orders Economic Performances DMA-Future Core Technology EC1 ~ EC2 Impress Customers with Quality Product and Service Labeling DMA-Customers Satisfaction Improve Customer Satisfaction PR3, PR5 Recruit Talent Employment DMA-Employee Diversity LA1 ~ LA3 Respect Diversity & Improve the Labor-management Relations, Diversity and Equal opportunity, Equal remuneration DMAEmployee Diversity Organizational Culture for women and men, Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining LA4, LA12 ~ LA13, HR4 Talent Development Training and Education DMA-Employee Diversity LA9 ~ LA11 Eco-friendly Product Policy Materials, Products & Services DMA-Future Core Technology EN1, EN7, EN27 MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 87 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix 1. Principle of Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in the development and achievement of accountable and strategic responses to sustainability. The Assurer verified that Hyundai Mobis made efforts to communicate through a variety of channels for stakeholders in order to comply with the inclusivity principle. Hyundai Mobis separates its major stakeholders into eight groups: International and domestic complete car makers/competitors; employees; suppliers; and customers (agencies/consumers); investors; government/associations; media/academia/CSR expert organizations; and local communities. The Assurer also verified that Hyundai Mobis is collecting their opinions by distinguishing between their areas of interest, participation style, and participation frequency and by actively communicating with them. In particular, the Assurer gave a high evaluation of the communication process, which collects stakeholders’ opinions through the communication channels dedicated to each group and also establishes internal response strategies by regularly sharing those opinions with the management. Henceforth, there is a need for Hyundai Mobis to consider building an integrated stakeholder communication management system. 2. Principle of Materiality: Selection of and Reporting on Material Issues The principle of materiality dictates that organizations should focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and its major stakeholders. The Assurer found that Hyundai Mobis successfully identified issues relevant and material to the company and its major stakeholders based on a logical materiality analysis process. The Assurer also confirmed that Hyundai Mobis identified and selected its material issues according to a sustainability background, materiality, and the principle of completeness, and that the company determined the level of reporting such as the scope of the Report, boundaries, and time period according to a test of validity. In this year’s assessment as well, it was found that a total of 22 issues were divided into key reporting areas and general reporting areas and that the activities and performance regarding the material issues derived were reflected in a balanced manner in the Report. 3. Principle of Responsiveness: Organizational Response to Issues The principle of responsiveness says that organizations should be responsive to issues that may impact stakeholder performance. The Assurer found that Hyundai Mobis successfully identified all issues that may impact stakeholder performance, implemented measures to address them, and adequately presented relevant information in the Report. The Assurer found that Hyundai Mobis has clearly disclosed key material issues and its progress and major performance results, and presented measures taken to address them in the Report. In particular, Hyundai Mobis has created a separate section to present the driving strategy and main performance of its overseas research facilities including those in North America, Europe, India, and China. Furthermore, the company has provided priority information about the status of its research & development and reported in detail regarding each key issue by selecting examples, for which the Assurer considers an excellent case. Recommendations While the Assurer commends Hyundai Mobis for making a variety of efforts to enhance sustainability and for the subsequence performance results, it also presents the following recommendations for improving future sustainability reports and sustainability management. 1. Linked performance management for global initiatives: Hyundai Mobis has linked and reported its activities to help resolve global issues, such as social contribution programs and eco-friendly technology development, as well as its global initiatives, such as the SDGs, and the Assurer evaluates this as a good case. The Assurer recommends that the company set long-term goals regarding these future activities and promote sustainable activity through systematic performance management. 2. Building a System to Manage Sustainability Performance: The Assurer suggests that Hyundai Mobis build a performance management system that is accessible companywide including for domestic and overseas business sites. The system should enable the systematic compiling and management of the activities and results of sustainability management, future goals, etc. 3. Expanding the Reporting Scope: Hyundai Mobis has set its reporting boundaries to domestic business sites including its headquarters and factory, research facility, and places of business, and the company includes some environmental data from overseas business sites. As the scope of the company’s activities continues to grow to global business sites, the Assurer suggests that Hyundai Mobis build a performance monitoring system that encompasses global business sites such as overseas offices and operating branches, thereby increasing the completeness of reporting. May 2017 KKorea Productivity Center CEO Soon-jik Hong Dong soo Kim Yangho Lee Director Team Leader The Korea Productivity Center’s Sustainability Management Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility (the organization that established AA1000), the international standard for stakeholder participation and verification, and is qualified to conduct independent assurance statements. Our Assurance Committee is comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance, and have completed all relevant training. · AA1000AS (2008): The AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is an international assurance standard developed by AccountAbility, and provides detailed information on the method of reporting sustainability management issues by evaluating an organization’s management on performance, compliance with principles, and reliability of performance information. · The AA1000APS (2008): The AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standards (2008) is an international assurance standard set by AccountAbility, and features all principles related to AA1000 standards. 88 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix GRI Index General Standard Disclosure Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Page Note Corporate Overview Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 4~5 Analysis G4-2 Provides a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4~5, 72~73 Organizational G4-3 Report the name of the organization 6~7 Profile G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 6~7 http://www.mobis.co.kr G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 6~7 G4-6 The number of countries where the organizaion operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant 8~9 http://www.mobis.co.kr operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report http://dart.fss.or.kr G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 66~67 http://www.mobis.co.kr http://dart.fss.or.kr G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 44 G4-9 Scale of the organization 6~7, 16, 81 G4-10 Total workforce 53, 82 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 82 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 8~9, 42~43, 48~51 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain No change G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 68~73 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 80 subscribes or endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 80 Identified G4-17 1) List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 7~9 Material 2) ‌Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not Aspects covered by the report and Boundaries G4-18 1) Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundariess 2 2) Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 18~19 G4-20 For each material aspect, report aspect boundary within the organization 19 G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization 19 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Reasons for change to data are stated on each page. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries No change Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 17 Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 17 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 17~19 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those 17~19 key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biannual) 2 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 94 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 89~92 G4-33 1) Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 87~88 2) ‌If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided 3) ‌Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers, 4) Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability repor Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 66~67 G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to 66~67 http://dart.fss.or.kr senior executives and other employees G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, 66~67 environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and 66~67 social topics If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 66~67 G4-39 Report whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the 66~67 organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for 66~67 S u b co m m i tte e s a re o p e rate d nominating and selecting highest governance body members under the BOD. Their members are appointed from the BOD members according to their respective experts. G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 66~67 Audit Committee and Ethics Committee MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 89 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Page Note Governance G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the 66~67 organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, 67 environmental and social topics G4-44 Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of 66~67 economic, environmental and social topics G4-45 Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social 66~67 impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for 17, 66~67 economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and 66~67 opportunities G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures 18~19 that all material aspects are covered G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 17, 66~67 G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the 18~19 mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 56, 66~67 Compensations are made based on the BOD’s performance as reported to the General Shareholders’ Meeting. G4-52 Report on the procedures and standards for determining remuneration, including whether remuneration consultants were involved, their independence and relationship with the company. G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 14~15 Integrity G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to 68~71 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related 68~71 to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Specific Standard Disclosures Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Page Note Economic Performance Indicators Management DMA Reasons why that aspect is important, factors considered when determining materiality and ways to manage them, 32, 40, 48, 52, 60 Approach management policy effectiveness evaluation, reporting evaluation results and related adjustments Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16 Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 35~36 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 82 EC4 Financial assistance received from government 34 Market PresEC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 82 ence EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Indirect EcoEC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 48~51, 74~77, 83~84 nomic Impacts EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 16 Procurement EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 83 Practices Environmental Performance Indicators Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 61 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 63 Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 61~62 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 61~62 EN5 Energy intensity 61 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 62~63 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 35~36 90 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Page Note Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 62,85 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 62 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 62 Biodiversity EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Unrelated EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 9, 76 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 9, 76 EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected operations, Unrelated by level of extinction risk Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 1) 62~63, 85 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 2) 62~63, 85 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 3) 62~63, 85 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 63 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions 62 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 63, 85 EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions 63, 85 Effluents and EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 85 Waste EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 85 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Unrelated EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Unrelated EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organiza76 tion’s discharges of water and runoff Products and EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 35~36 Services EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 63 Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Unrelated and regulations Transport EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and 62~63 transporting members of the workforce Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 76 Contributed a total of KRW 10 billion to Meer Forest between 2012 and 2017 Supplier EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 48~49 Environmental Assessment EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 70~71 Environmental EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 71 Grievance Mechanisms Labor Practice and Decent Work Performance Indicators Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 82 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of 82 operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 57 Labor/ManageLA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 82 ment Relations Occupational LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor Health and and advise on occupational health and safety programs Safety LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, 82 by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 58~59 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 58~59 Training and LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category 54 Education LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in 53~54 managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 56 Diversity and LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 66~67 Equal group membership, and other indicators of diversity Opportunity Equal LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 57 remuneration for women and men Supplier LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria 48~49 Assessment for Labor Practices LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 48~49 Labor Practices LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Mechanisms MOBIS Sustainability Report 2017 91 Overview Special Theme Material Issues Corporate Achievements Appendix Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Page Note Human Rights Performance Indicators Investment HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that un68~71 derwent human rights screening HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 58 operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimiHR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Unrelated nation Freedom of HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated 57 Association or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights and Collective Bargaining Child Labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the 80 effective abolition of child labor Forced of ComHR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contrib80 pulsory Labor ute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Security PracHR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations 71 tices Indigenous HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken Rights Assessment HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 68~71, 58 Supplier Human HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 68~71 Rights Assessment HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Unrelated Human Rights HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 68~71 Grievance Mechanisms Society Performance Indicators Local SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 74 Communities SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Unrelated Anti-corruption SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 68~71 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 71 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 71 Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Prohibited by law Anti-competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 70 Behavior Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Unrelated Supplier AssessSO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 49 ment for Impacts on Society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 48, 83 Grievance SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Unrelated Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Responsibility Performance Indicators Customer Health PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 35~36, 45~47 and Safety PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of Unrelated products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labe42~43, 63 Service Labeling ling, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information Unrelated and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 41~42 Marketing PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products Unrelated Communications PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, includUnrelated ing advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Unrelated Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products Unrelated and services 92 Publishing Date MAY 2017 Publisher Young-deuk Lim Published by HYUNDAI MOBIS Production/Design LUCRE, Ltd 02. 542. 6725 For additional information and inquires HYUNDAI MOBIS CSR Team(02. 2018. 6026/ MOBISCSR@mobis.co.kr) 06141 HYUNDAI MOBIS CSR Team 203, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06141 Korea Tel 02.2018.6026 / Fax 02.2173.6275 / E-mail MOBISCSR@mobis.co.kr www.mobis.co.kr
