Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 bank of Sustainability Report 2016 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Contents: Foreword by the President of the Executive Board 6 About the Report 7 Structure and Contents 7 1. Identity 8 1.1. Bank profile 9 The Intesa Sanpaolo Group 10 Banca Intesa Beograd 10 Mission 10 Corporate values 10 Participation in joint initiatives 10 1.2. Relations with stakeholders 12 Dialogue with stakeholders 12 Materiality matrix and limits 13 1.3. Banca intesa governance 14 Corporate governance 14 Sustainability management 15 Risk management 16 2. Sustainability 20 2.1. Generated economic value 21 Market position 21 Direct and indirect economic value generated 21 Customers 24 Employees 31 Community 36 Supliers 40 The environment 42 3. GRI index and indicators 46 Report parameters 51 5 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Foreword by the President of the Executive Board About the Report Well aware of the significance of our leading position on For Banca Intesa, the Sustainability report represents an Structure and Contents the market, and the responsible role we play within the indispensible instrument for monitoring the social and society, we have continued providing direct support to environmental activities and the only way to compreIn the content-defining process, the Bank was led by the local community, through the corporate volunteering hensively observe and evaluate its performance against the GRI G4 principles of materiality, involvement program “Intesa from the heart”. I am especially proud the material aspects of sustainability. Given that it of stakeholders, sustainability and completeness, of the immense success of the humanitarian initiative integrates the results stemming from the dialogue with striving to present clearly and transparently those “BIB band plays for children”, within which the band, stakeholders, quantitative indicators and monitoring of topics, i.e. aspects that stood out as priority ones in a comprising the Bank’s employees, at the performance for compliance with the Bank’s ethical principles, non-finanset of relevant topics, according to their significance for their colleagues, collected more than half a million of dinars, cial reporting is a key factor for achieving transparency the Bank and its stakeholders. Focus was thus kept which were donated to the social welfare institutions and in business and relationship with stakeholders. on aspects that were material and were thus suffischools for children with disabilities. Apart from providing ciently important to be part of a sustainability report. financial support, this initiative of the employees has, owing Leader in CSR Reporting Furthermore, extending the understanding of the scope to its innovativeness, raised awareness of the importance of The Bank’s aspirations to continuously improve and of impact, the Bank considers the direct and indirect direct contribution to the community. strengthen its operations in the field of corporate social impacts of its business on sustainability with equal responsibility, promote responsible economic, social attention. Without disregarding the importance of satisfaction of our and environmental choices, reinforce the dialogue with The Report is divided into three basic parts: own employees, which is one of our strategic aspirations, stakeholders and take due care of their needs, have • Identity, which offers information on the profile of in 2016 we have opened the Bank’s new adminiresulted in numerous awards – year 2016 was marked the Bank, its relation to stakeholders and corporate stration building. Under one roof, we have managed to by yet another significant award of the Responsible governance; incorporate the business functions and create optimal Business Forum for the contribution achieved by • Sustainability, which contains an overview of activities working conditions for all of the employees, whereby the implementation of the international GRI (Global and outcomes of the Bank, represented according to enhancing the operational efficiency and improving the Reporting Initiative) methodology, applied in the their impact on the most important stakeholder groups. quality of communication among different organizational annual sustainability reporting of the Bank. For any of the identified areas, the Report gives a straunits. This year was also marked by the launching of the tegic approach to governance, an overview of activities work on the innovative concept of identification of talents A system of regular sustainability reporting was estaband responses to the relevant indicators; Ladies and gentlemen, embedded in our own system and advanced mechanisms lished back in 2010 and further improved in 2012 by • GRI contents, indicators and parameters of the report, for their long-term development, both on the local level introducing the international methodology framework which systematically feature the compliance with the For more than a decade, Banca Intesa Beograd has and the level of our international banking group. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative – GRI), the Sustainability GRI requirements, fulfilment of the performance indibeen reaffirming its leading position on the market, Reporting Guidelines. Sustainability report for 2016, the cators, as well as their association with the relevant owing not only to its wise corporate management and Banca Intesa has been reporting on sustainability for Bank’s fifth in a row, follows the redefined GRI G4 version principles of the UN Global Compact. sound business moves, but also by being sensitive to seven years already, and during this period our approach of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, as well as the the needs of all of the stakeholders, and by observing to this issue has been increasingly comprehensive. Financial Service Sector Supplement (GRI G4 Financial Promotion of Sustainability Reporting the economic, social and ecological impacts its own Although we have been reporting on non-financial Services Sector Disclosures), providing thus a comprehenSince it deems the Report an important aspect of its operations have on the local community. results in line with the Global Reporting Initiative sive overview of the economic, social and environmental CSR strategy, Banca Intesa has also launched a special (GRI) methodology for the past five years, in 2016 Bank’s performance, by providing answers to 34 of indicaproject which is to include all of the stakeholders into Bearing in mind that customer satisfaction is, at all times, also we have been assessing our own performance by tors, in response to the 32 included in the previous report. its preparation and promotion. The aim of such initiative our priority, in 2016 as well, we have been striving to applying the advanced G4 methodology guidelines, According to the strategic agreement between the Global was, through a complex communication prism, for the live up to their expectations, not only by improving the whereby continuously increasing the number of fulfilled Reporting Initiative and the UN Global Compact (UNGC), Bank to additionally improve all of the stages – prepaproducts and services, but also the entire experience, by indicators of the social and environmental performance. the Report also fully meets the UNGC requirements conration, compilation and promotion of the Sustainability promoting the new branch office model, in which the cerning progress reporting. This year’s Report has been Reporting. The project was realised through several clients would feel at home, and where they would have At the end of 2016 the Bank has received a special award adjusted to the Core Reporting Option. stages, which primarily implied the “CSR breakfast” both the traditional and digital channels of interaction of the Responsible Business Forum, for the results achieved a workshop for the internal CSR ambassadors in April at their disposal. Following the latest trends on the one in the process of its first national CSR indexing, whereby it First national CSR index 2016, for the purpose of preparing a model of the matehand, and the growing customer demand for comfort found its way to the list of companies which met the high As confirmation of its orderly actions when implementrial aspects matrix, recognised by the internal public, as and speed on the other, we have enabled the filing of criteria for the application of social responsibility standards ing principles of social responsibility in its operations, well as the presentation of the advanced G4 guidelines, loan applications via the on-line application as well as in their business model. Therefore, in the years that lie Banca Intesa has, at the end of 2016, been awarded within the GRI methodology. Once the stage of Report the service of contactless mobile payment Wave2Pay. ahead, we shall strive to realize the set goals, while more by a special award of the Responsible Business Forum prepartion was over, which lasted for several months, a firmly complying the economic, social and environmental for the results it achieved in the process of the first special promotion of the Report was organised, and the Being the largest corporate donor in 2016, Banca aspects of our operations, and thus contribute both to the national CSR indexing, whereby it found its way to the most important elements of the Sustainability Reporting Intesa Beograd has been awarded with a special long-term stability of the local economy and consequently, list of companies which met the high criteria for the for 2015 were presented. At the event, an expert acknowledgment of the Paralympic Committee of the welfare of the broader community. application of social responsibility standards in their panel was also organised – “Impact of the financial Serbia, since together with its clients it has supported business model. department on social sustainability – financial inclusion the Paralympic Committee of Serbia with more than Sincerely, The CSR index represents the sole national methodoland responsible financing”, in which representatives of 5.5 million dinars, having renounced part of the profit Draginja Đurić ogy which enables objective comparison and assessthe most important Bank’s stakeholders took part – the generated by memberships and transactions, as well as ment of performance of companies which operate in National Bank of Serbia, EBRD, the Government’s Team by popularizing the use of the first charity payment card Serbia in the context of market application of social for social inclusion and reduction of poverty, one of the in the country. President of the Executive Board of Banca Intesa responsibility standards. Bank’s clients, as well as the Responsible Business Forum. 6 7 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 1.1. Bank profile The Intesa Sanpaolo Group Excellence award Intesa Sanpaolo has received “The Best Bank in ItaThe Intesa Sanpaolo Group is one of the leading ly” award, granted by the international magazine for banking groups of the eurozone and the leading bank banking and finance, Euromoney, within the annual in Italy, in all segments of operation – retail segment, “Excellence Awards” selection. This award is granted corporate segment as well as real estate management. based on a large number of criteria, including revThe Group has 11.1 million customers that it services enues, pre-tax profit margin, net revenue, return on through a network of more than 4,000 branches in capital, earning per share, total assets, deposits and Italy. The Group is a leader in financial service provision loan, market share in deposits and loans, share capital, to both retail and corporate customers in Italy, especially as well as the ratio of costs and income. The award in banking intermediation (with 16% loan and 17% refers to the period from April 2015 until March 2016, customer deposits shares), asset management (20%), and when assessing the services and performance, Eulife insurance premiums (with more than 20% market romoney also classifies the quantity and quality, whereshare), pension funds (22%), and factoring (28,5%). by relying on the poll results. The Intesa Sanpaolo Group is strategically present in Sustainability rating the Central and Eastern Europe, North Africa and MidIntesa Sanpaolo is in several sustainability indexes, where dle East, with more than 1,200 branches and 7.8 million selection is based not only on financial performance but 1. Identity of customers, its bank members. It is the number one also on social and environmental performance (ESG bank in Serbia, the second bank in Croatia and Slovakia, analysis). This ranks the Group amongst the world’s corthe number four bank in Albania, number five in Egypt, porations that approach economic, social and environand the number seven bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina, mental sustainability and business ethics in governance Slovenia and Hungary. (ESG analysis) with the highest degree of commitment. The most renowned include the Dow Jones, DJSI As at 31 December 2016, the Intesa Sanpaolo Group World and DJSI Europe, Euronext Vigeo Europe had total assets amounting to EUR 725.100 million, 120 and Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120, UN Global loans to clients of EUR 364.713 million, direct bank Compact 100 stock index, “A list: The CDP Climate deposits of EUR 393.798, and direct deposits from Performance Leadership Index 2015”. insurance and technical reserves amounting to EUR 144.098 million. Banca Intesa Business results Banca Intesa, a member of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, The Intesa Sanpaolo group remains one of the most is the leading bank in the Serbian market, by all most efficient banks in Europe with a 51% indicator of costs relevant balance positions – total assets, total portfolio, and revenues ratio, compared to the sector average of total deposits, total income and capital level. Key activ65%. It is the leading bank in Europe, when it comes ities are directed to retail banking and operation with to profitability, to which all divisions contribute. A small business, economy and local self-governance. significant achievement has been realised in regard to the reduction of non-performing loans, and the costs of At the end of the fourth quarter of 2016, the Bank has reservation have been additionally increased. The aim is once again reaffirmed its leading position on the marto have the non-performing loans decreased by 2019 ket, by all most relevant balance positions and has thus to the level preceding the crisis, through limited and realized a market share of 17.0% in the total assets, targeted sales to third parties. 15.5% in total loans and 17.4% in total deposits. The Intesa Sanpaolo was an obvious winner of the EBA By the end of 2016, the Bank operated with approximately stress test for 2016, which has confirmed the strength 1.3 million private individuals and about 120 thousand of the Bank’s balance sheet indicators, along with the legal entities. Through its business network of 166 share capital indicator of 12.9%. The leverage ratio is branches, in almost 100 cities of Serbia, the Bank strives to one of the best in Europe. employ its potentials at all times, primarily the knowledge, innovation, but also the comprehensive international experience and thus contribute to the development of the local economy and better quality of life of the citizens. 8 9 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Award for the best corporate brand The Code of Ethics regulates the relations of the Bank Participation in Joint Initiatives Apart from being the leading financial institution in the The Global Finance international financial magazine with all stakeholders – customers, employees, suppliers country, the Bank has been recognized as the leader selected Banca Intesa as “The Best Bank in Serbia” in and the community, as well as its action in the area of One of the key aspects of the Banca Intesa operations in in sustainability, and has thus assumed responsibility of 2016 within the traditional selection for the “World’s environmental protection in line with the highest standthe area of sustainability, lies in the active participation being an active partner to all social performers in joint best bank”. ards of professional ethics and good business practice. and support to local and international associations, initiatives, which aim to promote the positive business Also, Banca Intesa has won the “Superbrands” The Code of Ethics is a management instrument and an which promote dialogue within the business sector, practice and create a common value. award, in the category of finance and insurance for expression of the corporate culture of the Bank, which international organisations and the society at large, in 2015-2016. The „Superbrands Serbia 2015–2016” sets a series of values and principles which the Bank order to ensure respect for human and labour rights, awards have been awarded in a total of 34 economic adheres to, in its daily operations and business activities. protection of the natural environment and ethical categories, among which are the energy department, practice of doing business throughout the world – such telecommunications, finance and insurance, health Corporate values as the United Nations Global Compact and the and foodstuffs production, whereas the criteria for Equator Principles. gaining this prestigious status is based on the three key attributes of brands: recognition and reputation; Integrity – We pursue our goals with honesty, fairness United Nations Responsible Serbian American Foreign Investors National Alliance Italian-Serbian long-term consisteny and reliabiltiy; corporate responand with a sense of responsibility in full compliance Global Compact Business Forum Association Chamber of Council for Local Economic Chamber of of Managers Commerce Development Commerce sibility, i.e. responsible operation. The “Superbrands” with the rules and principles of ethics mandated by the The largest global The largest, A business An organisation A business A business A non-profit award aims to recognise and reward the efforts and profession and in the spirit of the signed agreements. CSR network business CSR association founded promoting the association whose association that organisation that achievements of those contributing to the creation, bringing together network in Serbia, with the aim of improvement activities contribute brings together fosters, promotes supply and promotion of the top-quality branded Excellence – We set ourselves the goal of continuous more than 10,000 comprising 30 becoming a credible of the business to the improvement representatives of and develops trade members throughmembers. social partner of the environment in of the investment all three sectors of between Italy and products and services, on both the local and the interimprovement, planning future activities and anticipatout the world Serbian GovernSerbia, as well and business society – compaSerbia. national market. The Bank received this award in 2006 ing challenges, along with fostering extensive creativity and promoting ment in the process as partnership climate in Serbia. nies, municipalities the protection of improving between US and and NGOs, which and 2012. aimed at innovation; moreover, we recognise and of human and the business Serbian companies work together reward merits and quality. labour rights and environment for the purpose on improving the the environment and accelerating of economic conditions for Ownership structure and fight against economic development local economic Transparency – We are committed to making transparcorruption. development. development and In December 2016, a change in the Bank’s ownership ency the basis for all our activities, communication and doing business. structure ensued, which reflects in the fact that the contracts, with the aim of enabling our stakeholders to minority shareholder of Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. sold his make independent and conscientious decisions. entire share to the majority shareholder Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S. A. Following this change, the Respect for each individual – We intend to combine Bank now has one shareholder, the Intesa Sanpaolo large-format business with deep local roots and to be Holding International. a bank with a broad vision, while not losing sight of people as individuals. Striving to encircle its offer of financial services, in 2006, Banca Intesa established a leasing company, Intesa Leasing Equality – We are committed to eliminating any form d.o.o. Beograd, which is also a part of the Intesa Sanof discrimination in our conduct and to respecting paolo Group. The operation of the leasing company is gender, age, racial, religious, political and linguistic not a part of this Report. diversity, trade union preferences, as well as diversity in terms of sexual orientation and abilities. Mission Individual values – The value of each individual guides The Mission of Banca Intesa is to provide quality bankour modus operandi: we use listening and dialogue ing and financial services to its customers by promoting techniques as tools for continually improving relations development in all areas in which it operates and a with all stakeholders. growth model that is focused on sustainable results and establishing relations based on trust derived from the The responsible use of resources – We strive to use satisfaction of customers and stakeholders, the feeling all resources carefully and promote conduct based on of belonging among employees while carefully listening the optimal use of resources and avoidance of waste to the needs of the community. and losses, giving priority to choices that consider sustainability. The growth strategy of the Bank strives to create stable and sustainable values from the economic, financial, social and environmental aspect, building on the fundamental corporate values of the Bank in relations with all stakeholders. 10 11 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 1.2. Relations with Stakeholders Material aspects Limits of aspects Internal impacts External impacts Shareholders, Customers, Suppliers, Protection of the solidity and profitability Banca Intesa Community, Environment Shareholders, Customers, Suppliers, Business risk management Banca Intesa Community, Environment Dialogue with Stakeholders at large, and by managing the impacts made on the environment. The constant dialogue and exchange of Access to loans and savings management: Shareholders, Customers, • Product Responsibility Banca Intesa For Banca Intesa, the market success is achieved by opinion with its stakeholders, help the Bank understand • Support to the business system Community, Environment observing the needs of all stakeholders. The realisatheir expectations and weave them into its business • Financial inclusion and economic empowerment tion of the business goals is followed by the creation strategy. The Bank endeavours to enhance open and Shareholders, Customers, of products and services, tailored to the needs of the two-way communication throughout the year, using Integrity in corporate conduct Banca Intesa Suppliers, Community, Environment customers, reinforcement of the supply chain, investing different approaches to engagement: Provision of top services to customers: into the development of the employees, the society • Customer service innovation and Service quality Banca Intesa Customers, Community Employee development: Group Engagement Mechanism • Training and professional development CUSTOMERS • Employee evaluation Banca Intesa Customers, Community, Shareholders Individuals • Job protection policies Small business Focus groups • Quality of life in the company SMEs Benchmarking surveys Large corporates Meetings, workshops, seminars, satisfaction surveys Climatic change Banca Intesa Environment, Community Local self-governments Handling and analysing complaints, requests and suggestions Consumer associations Working groups Business associations Relations with suppliers Banca Intesa Suppliers, Community, Environment Public administration EMPLOYEES Satisfaction surveys Management Workshops Community relations Officers Training and evaluation, professional seminars, interviews, Intranet Banca Intesa Community relations Employees Meetings with trade unions COMMUNITY Meetings, consultations Local and national public institutions (regulatory bodies, Working group, engagement in working bodies local self-government, etc.) Civil society organisations Panel discussions Media Supplier information form SUPPLIERS CSR questionnaire Domestic Regular communication in tender process Foreign Regular communication for the period of engagement ENVIRONMENT Meetings, presentations Environmental organisations Working groups, working bodies Future generations Apart from being the mechanism for regular comThe materiality matrix, generated as a result of this munication, the dialogue with the stakeholders also process, features the topics which have stood out as represents the basic tool for the identification of priority the priority ones and the initial point in the process topics to be included in the prepartion of the sustainabilof preparation of the sustainability report. Compared ity report, and hence, the establishment of the sustainto the previous 2015, the material topics have been ability strategy. Engagment of stakeholders is essential ranked by significance, in the same manner as in 2016. for this process, and the Bank has, in line with the Therefore, this report covers the topics which have been international methodology for stakeholder engagement identified as priroty topics for the operation of the parknown as AA1000 standard (Institute of Social and ent Intesa Sanpaolo Group and Banca Intesa Beograd, Ethical Accountability) defined the key groups, as well as well as for the stakeholders. Material topics comply as the map of its stakeholders. with the 2014–2017 Business Plan of the Group, which is even more strongly focused on supporting the busiMateriality matrix ness sector and on economic growth. Key topics or aspects reported by the Bank in 2016 emerged as a result of the structured materiality analysis process In order to confirm the materiality of the global issues in carried out within the Group in accordance with the new a local surroundings, the Bank has established an effiGRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the AA1000 cient process of reporting, which implies regular and standard. The Bank has first begun with a detailed analysis periodic consultations, and thus obtained conclusions, of trends within the financial sector, as well as the wider in line with the GRI methodology, are further anlayzed context of sustainability. Then, the Bank strived to recognize and compared to the stakeholders’ viewpoints. As result the substantial connection between the impacts of the of this process, the Bank is able to define the structure Bank on sustainability and its business strategy, considering, and the contents of the report, striving to respond to on the other hand, the viewpoints of its stakeholders. their expectations in an adequate manner. 12 13 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 1.3. Governance in Banca Intesa tional positions, as well as performance and potential, with the aim of creating an integrated system for the members During 2015, the Procedure for managing the annual Sustainability report preparation process of the management, thus helping their professional was adopted in line with the Global Reporting Initiative development. The policy provides for remuneration in the (GRI) methodology, which the Bank has been applying form of benefits, which is also based on financial instrufor four years. In addition to describing the basic princiments and linked to the results of the company – which ples of the socially responsible operations, the Procedure corresponds to the level of assumed risk and is regulated also regulates trends in the management of this area, to avoid giving benefits that, in the long term, are not in as well as specific steps and divisions of responsibilities Corporate Governance bers are Arthur Philippe, Nevenka Žarkić Joksimović, line with the Group’s interests. Based on the performance during the preparation of sustainability reports. Guido Gioncada and Antonio Stillittano. The Audit indicators closely linked to the long-term goals, the Operating on the principles of responsible corporate Committee assists the Board of Directors in supervising benefit determination systems are based, among other According to the Code of Ethics, in order to efficiently management founded on high ethical norms, the Bank the work of the Executive Board and Bank employees. things, on the principle of symmetry, with the amounts implement the principle of self-responsibility, the protects its shareholders’ interests as well as those of its of paid benefits being based on the results achieved in managers of departments/organisational units appoint customers, employees and the wider social community. In line with the Law on Banks and other regulations, the Group, the business sector and individual levels and a corporate social responsibility representative (CSR The governance of the Banca Intesa joint stock company members of the Board of Directors are appointed and therefore being capable of decreasing significantly and ambassador), identifying CSR objectives within their is organised as a two-tier system. dismissed by the General Meeting of Shareholders, even reaching zero if the minimum indicators that reflect own organisational units. CSR ambassadors are also while members of the Executive Board are appointed the Group profitability are not achieved, also taking into delegated to cooperate with the Internal CommuniThe Board of Directors of the Bank consists of five memand dismissed by the Bank’s Board of Directors. Domesaccount the risks assumed and the capital employed. cations and CSR Office, within the Human Resource bers elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders, tic regulations require members of the Executive Board and Organisation Department, and to assist with their including the Board President. The term of office of Board and the Board of Directors to meet in order to get prior When it comes to conflicts of interest, Banca Intesa has knowledge and understanding of the operations of the members is three years, with a possibility of re-election. The approval of the regulatory body, i.e. the National Bank prescribed, in accordance with the provisions of the organisational unit they represent in the preparation of President of the Board of Directors is Giovanni Boccolini, of Serbia, without which they cannot become members Law on Banks, as well as with its bylaws and those of its reports and corporate responsibility reports, as well as and its members are Božo Prka, Paolo Sarcinelli, of these boards. This includes, among other things, parent Group, the obligation for members of the Board to contribute to improving knowledge and strengthenArthur Philippe, and Nevenka Žarkić Joksimović, PhD. good business reputation and appropriate qualificaof Directors and the Executive Board to submit a written ing the awareness of the CSR aspect of the operations Arthur Philippe and Nevenka Žarkić Joksimović, PhD, tions. In addition, appropriate experience in finance is statement on conflicts of interest to the Bank’s Board of the Bank. are non-executive members of the Board of Directors. also required for at least three members of the Board of Directors within one month from the day of taking The Board of Directors, as a governance body, does not of Directors, while at least one member of the Board office. The members of the Board of Directors and the The values that Banca Intesa believes in and is commithave a direct executive role, given that Banca Intesa, of Directors must have active knowledge of Serbian Executive Board are obliged – in accordance with the ted to, as well as the principles on which its relations organised as a joint stock company with a two-tier and reside in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. bylaws regulating transactions with related parties and with stakeholders are based, are defined in the Code governance system, delegates executive roles to the After obtaining the approval, the appointed person is the conflict of interest – to submit completed standard of Ethics of the Bank. As part of a wider vision of enviExecutive Board as a management body that organises registered with the Business Registers Agency as well. questionnaires once a year whose content is designed by ronmental and social responsibility, the Code of Ethics the Bank’s operations and implements business policy the parent Group and which contain information relevant is a management instrument that prescribes standards and strategy, while the Board of Directors makes strateThe Bank’s shareholders, i.e. at the General Meeting to establishing any conflicts of interest. of conduct that all employees and all organisational gic decisions aimed at the Bank’s compliance, takes care of Shareholders, participate in and directly impact the units must observe in order to maintain the trust of the of and is responsible for the accuracy of all reports on work of the Board of Directors as a governance body in One of the methods of sustainability control at Banca stakeholders. the operation, financial condition and operating results the following ways: Intesa is the power of the Board of Directors as a govof the Bank addressed to the Bank’s shareholders, the • The General Meeting of Shareholders adopts the ernance body to establish a unique internal control sysThe Procedure of managing reports of non compublic and the National Bank of Serbia. business policy and strategy of the Bank; tem – that is, supervise its efficiency, while the Executive pliance to the Code of Ethics was adopted in 2011. • The General Meeting of Shareholders adopts the Board enables the efficient functioning of this system. The All Bank employees, as well as customers, suppliers and The Executive Board of Banca Intesa consists of five Articles of Association and the amendments to the Board of Directors gives approval to the Bank’s exposure other stakeholders who notice any behaviour of any members, including the President. The term of office of Memorandum and Articles of Association; to one or a group of related parties of over 10% or to Banca Intesa employee that seems to be non-compliant Executive Board members is three years, with a possibil• The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints and an increase in the exposure to over 20% of Bank equity; with the principles prescribed by the Code of Ethics and ity of re-election. The President of the Executive Board of dismisses the President and members of the Board of adopts an internal audit plan and programme; considers other internal acts of the Bank may submit a non-comBanca Intesa is Draginja Đurić, the Deputy President of Directors; external and internal audit reports; defines the internal pliance report. the Executive Board is Alessio Cioni, and Board members • The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints and organisation or organisational structure of the Bank that are Darko Popović, Head of the Retail and Small Business dismisses the external auditor; ensures the division of duties, authority and responsibiliAccording to the said procedure, Procedure of Division, Francesco Lupo, Head of the Corporate Division • The General Meeting of Shareholders considers and ties of its employees, members of the managing bodies managing reports of non-compliance to the Code of and Dragica Mihajlović, the Chief Financial Officer/CFO. adopts the Bank’s financial report. and other persons in managerial positions at the Bank in Ethics consists of the following steps: non-compliance a manner that prevents conflict of interest and ensures a reporting, report analysis, delivering the information to Women account for 20% of the members of the Board Banca Intesa guarantees timely and transparent comtransparent and documented process of decision making the parent Group, establishing the status and verifying of Directors and 40% of the members of the Executive munication to all its shareholders, with the intention and implementation. the facts, involving the relevant department, proposing Board of Banca Intesa. The work of the Executive Board of providing clear and complete information about the corrective actions and delivering reports to relevant is evaluated through the MBO (Management by Objecresults achieved by the Bank. Sustainability management stakeholders, as well as to the parent Group. A report tives) system based on setting measurable objectives may be submitted to the following email address: based on which annual performance is monitored. The adopted remuneration policy for the entire human Strategically set and highly developed sustainability eticki.kodeks@bancaintesa.rs or in hard copy to the resources of the Group, including the variable compomanagement system in the Bank, which represents a following address: Banca Intesa Beograd, HR and The Bank’s Audit Committee consists of five members, nents, is based on equality, merit and the sustainability fundamental instrument for integration of sustainability Organization Department, Milentija Popovića 7b, including the Chairman. The term of office of Committee of results. The guidelines for defining the management into all of the business processes, is based on ethical prin11070 Belgrade. members is three years, with a possibility of re-election. remuneration policy are based on objective elements and ciples, and realized on the basis of the following formal The Committee Chairman is Zanni Mauro and its memparameters resulting from the assessment of organisadocuments: 14 15 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 By means of the above-described mechanism, the Bank The Rulebook enforcement procedure is regulated by In case of methods applied when monitoring and 2011, regulating the identification and preparation of a has, during 2016, received five complaints from external the Social and Environmental Risk Management assessing the manner in which the customers meet summary of the customers engaged in armament and stakeholders, for which it was determined, upon detailed Procedure. This Procedure regulates the credit process the social and environmental goals, which have been military equipment production and trade, monitoring analysis of the case, that it did not constitute a breach with regard to social and environmental risks when agreed (e.g. in contractual obligations), the following the transactions and loan applications of customers of the Code of Ethics but rather potential omissions approving a loan product to corporates and entrepreactivities are implemented in this area: engaged in armament and military equipment producin regular operation and conduct of the employees. neurs where the Bank’s credit exposure is at a level of (1) Monitoring the customer risk is carried out when tion and trade, approval of transactions and loan appliAs such, they have been forwarded to the competent EUR 1,000,000 or higher, including the requested new updating the customer data and during the cations related to armament and military equipment organizational parts, such as the Customer Satisfaction product, in case of a loan product from a credit line or repeated assessment of the social and environproduction and trade in accordance with the Policy of Office, the Security and Business Continuity Manageother funds approved to the Bank by an international mental risks related to customer operation, when Non-Financing of Armaments, as well as the preparament Department, the Legal Department and the Gendevelopment bank and approval of a long-term loan necessary. tion of reports on the transactions related to armament eral Secretariat. None of the aforementioned complaints product funded from other sources. (2) The Bank regularly updates the data and verifies and military equipment production and trade. filed in 2016, referred to the violation of human rights. the accuracy of customer classification in the The Procedure regulates the rules classified by business following cases: Reputational Risk Management Risk Management lines/processes in the social and environmental risk a) when processing requests for long-term Any non-compliance with the internal acts, princimanagement process: financing of the high risk clients; ples and the values that they contain, as well as any Apart from the basic risks to which the Bank is exposed b) within regular monitoring of the credit risks non-compliance with laws and bylaws, exposes the in its operation, the Bank also analyses the risks which The relationship manager / employee whose portfolio among individual clients; Bank to reputational risk, so this area is approached imply the consideration of wider consequences that the includes the customer: c) in case of reasonable doubt that the level of with the utmost care. Given that trust is of key imporaction of the Bank, directly or indirectly, may have on • checks whether the Bank supports the specific busithe social and environmental risks related to tance in the relationship between a financial institution the social and natural environment. ness activity (the List of the business activities not customer operation has significantly increased. and its stakeholders, Banca Intesa considers business supported by the Bank is a part of the procedure); (3) The organizational part competent for the sale of ethics and high compliance standards to be its highest Social and Environmental Risk Management • performs basic and additional customer classification credit products, to a certain customer, is obliged to: priorities. The social and environmental risk management repre(low-risk/medium-risk/high-risk customer) based on a) with due care observe the information sents an integral part of the Bank’s credit policy and it the Review of Business Activities According to the regarding the violation of regulations set Compliance control is within the competence of the has been implemented into the regular credit processes, Level of Social and Environmental Risks and/or based forth in item 4 by the client, published in the Compliance and Anti-Money-Laundering Department. being conducted in the Bank. In case of a negative social on the data from the Statement or Questionnaire or media and publicly available resources; The process of compliance risk assessment is constant. and environmental incident, caused either directly or other information about the customer; b)  in contact with the customer, verify the The above-mentioned risks are identified through quarindirectly by the Bank’s operations, or indirectly through • obtains a Statement or a Questionnaire from the merits of information pertaining to the terly reporting and priority measures are determined for the actions of the customer being financed by the Bank, customer (for medium-risk and high-risk customers); ecological incident; their elimination or mitigation – that is, the level of effithere is a medium and high percentage of probability • indicates the customer risk level in the loan proposal. c) submit the report on social and environmenciency of the existing compliance controls is assessed. that the Bank might be exposed to the following risks: Credit Management Department: tal incident to the Head of the Corporate and The Internal Audit provides direct support to the top operational, reputational and management risks. • verifies the loan proposal, gives a final assessment of SME Division, the Credit Department, the management bodies of the Bank in monitoring the The Social and Environmental Risk Management the social and environmental risks and measures for coordinator for the protection of environcompliance with and adequacy of the rules contained Rulebook, adopted by the Bank Board of Directors, their control. ment and other organizational parts involved in the Bank’s bylaws. If it identifies critical issues durdefines risk assessment and monitoring obligations in Environmental Protection Coordinator: in the process of procedure implementation. ing its activity, the Internal Audit informs the relevant the area of environmental protection, employee health • follows the information on environmental incidents; organisational units and the top management bodies and safety and the Bank’s social responsibility (protec• manages employee training and reporting. Equator Principles of the Bank with the aim of determining adequate tion of cultural heritage, fundamental human rights and The rights and obligations of Environmental Protection The goal of the Equator Principles is to identify and measures for risk mitigation and the method of their personal integrity) and applies to managing those social Coordinator in certain processes are specified as well: assess risks and to perform risk management based implementation. and environmental risks arising from the activities of • giving opinion and approval in the case of changing on the criteria defined by the principles, with the customers financed by the Bank. The Rulebook defines the contents of the Statement or Contractual Clause; aim of adhering to the principles of the sustainability When combating corruption is involved, the internal the obligations relating to the following: • following the information on environmental incidents; of natural resources, human health, human rights, regulations that govern the control system and mitigate • obtaining all of the data necessary for assessing the • managing the activities in connection with employee cultural heritage and biodiversity. The Bank applies the corruption risks comprise: The Code of Ethics, The social and environmental risks related to customer training; Implementation of the Equator Principles for the Project Code of Conduct, The Rulebook on Relations with activities; • preparing reports on the functioning of the social and Financing Procedure when preparing and implementing Political Parties, The Policy on the Prevention and • customer classification according to the level of social environmental risk management system implemented project financing and advisory services in connection Detection of fraud at the Bank and following Bank and environmental risks; at the Bank, on any significantly elevated level of with project financing, where the investment value procedures: Acting upon reports of service fraud and • customer monitoring and periodic assessment of social and environmental risks connected to individual of the project is 10 million dollars or higher, both for abuse at the Bank and Performing transactions with social and environmental risks related to customer Bank customers, etc. new projects and for all project financing intended related parties. business; for the expansion or improvement of existing facilities • measures for controlling social and environmental risks The Rulebook adopted by the Board of Directors regu(buildings such as factories, infrastructure, etc.), where The Bank`s Code of Conduct prescribes the rules in related to customer business activities (e.g. rejecting lates the appointment of the Environmental Protection changes in these facilities can create significant environconnection with giving and receiving gifts. According a loan application relating to business activities not Coordinator and the Senior Environmental Protection mental and/or social impacts or significantly change the to the Code, the sole purpose of giving gifts as part of supported by the Bank); Manager as persons responsible for environmental pronatural environment. regular business must be the promotion of the Bank’s • training the employees involved in the social and tection with the aim of establishing the Environmental public image and they must not, under any circumenvironmental risk management processes; Management System (EMS) and ensuring compliance The Policy of Non-Financing of Armaments stances, provide grounds for assuming that they exceed • reporting to Bank bodies on social and environmental with the rules of environmental management and social In accordance with the relevant bylaw of the Group, the the boundaries of normal business conduct and civility, risks. responsibility in credit activities. Policy of Non-Financing of Armaments, Banca Intesa or that their purpose is to gain a privileged position for adopted the Procedure for the Performance of Transthe Bank in connection with any of its activities. It is actions Related to Armament Production and Trade in not permitted to give or promise gifts, donations or 16 17 other privileges to officials or employees of government The prohibition on granting donations and sponsorship bodies apart from modest gifts in accordance with the to the above organisations aims to protect against any principles determined by the Code. All employees must actions that would result in a privileged position for the refrain from receiving gifts or other free items with a Bank or unfair decisions in favour of the Bank. value exceeding the boundaries of modesty and standard courtesy, as well as from accepting, for themselves During 2016 as well, the Bank provided training or for other persons, any other offers of privileges and through e-learning on the anti-corruption policies and benefits beyond the boundaries of normal business procedures of the Bank. As well as the basic course on relations, especially when offered with the aim of influMoney Laundering Risks that was obligatory for every encing the independent judgement of the employee employee in the Bank, other courses were assigned to and the performance of his/her duties. employees in line with the job and business process requirements. Thus, during 2016, 91% employees A procedure has been prescribed in connection with the underwent the basic AML course (“Money laundering violation of regulations or other irregularities –measures Risk”) whereas 89% of employees attended the trainthat are prescribed in the event of corruption are ing “Know your Customer”. related to the violation of work duties, so the measures stipulated by external regulations, i.e. the Labour Law Physical Security (e.g. compensation for damage, employee suspension Banca Intesa approaches the assessment of risks involvor termination of employment), but also the Criminal ing the health and safety of its employees and customCode, may be imposed against an employee. ers with due diligence through a special management system that is fully compliant with the most significant Risk analysis is an important part of the approach to the state-level standards. To that end, a series of education management of reputational risks deriving from corrupt and training courses were organised for employees practices of employees or business partners. Analysis of (e-learning training dedicated to raising awareness risk of fraud, which includes corruption, is conducted in of the importance of safety and security in a business the Bank on the levels of business processes, through environment), along with the improvement of technical regular procedures (the procedure adoption process measures. No case of robbery in the Bank was recorded also includes the Security and Business Continuity Manduring 2016. agement Department, which performs assessments of risks under its competences and is further involved in the process of the development of new products/services), as well as through emergency procedures (e.g. the identification of new types of threats or changes in fraud trends). During 2016, 44 analyses (of business processes, products, services and systems) were made, and a risk assessment procedure has been adopted and is in force since September 1st 2016. Based on the records of the Legal Department and the General Secretariat, no proceedings were initiated against Banca Intesa in connection with corruption since no complaints or notices prior to complaints were delivered during 2016. The Rulebook on Relations with Political Parties, as well as the Procedure for the Management, Approval and Realisation of Sponsorship and Donations of Banca Intesa prescribe the obligation of the Bank to refrain from granting donations and sponsorship, inter alia, to: • political parties, movements and any of their organisational structures; • trade unions and umbrella organisations; • trade union organisations; • state authorities in different forms, competent authorities and institutions 18 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 2.1. Generated Economic Value Banca Intesa reposes its development strategy on the The total loans of the Bank to corporate and retail principle of ataining sustainability when creating value. customers at the end of December 2016 reached a sum This means that the Bank endeavours to realise its of EUR 2,398 million. The total deposits amounted to strategy goals by establishing a balance between the EUR 3,109 million. economic, social and ecological aspects of its operations, contributing to the reinforcement of economy, At the end of the fourth quarter of 2016, the Bank opermaintaining social cohesion, as well as to greater welated with approximately 1,3 million of individuals and fare of the community. Being the leading bank on the around 120,000 legal entities. The Bank’s business netSerbian market, the Bank strives to provide sustainable work comprises 166 branches. The Bank has the most solutions and active support to the recovery process of developed network of POS terminals and ATMs with the local economy. 14,234 of active POS and 267 ATMs. Banca Intesa has during the fourth quarter of 2016 reaffirmed its leading Market Position position in electronic banking and payment cards operations. At the end of December 2016, the Bank had close At the end of 2016, Banca Intesa once again reaffirmed to 1.5 million issued debit and credit cards. its leading position in the market on all the most important balance items, having a market share of 17.0% of Operations with Corporate Customers the total assets, 15.5% of the total loans, and 17.4% 2. Sustainability of the total deposits. Loans to business entities at the end of 2016 amounted to EUR 1,364 million, while corporate deposits 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 amounted to EUR 1,087 million. Net assets 3,625 3,718 3,910 4,011 4,466 Loans to customers 2,490 2,720 2,677 2,326 2,398 Operations with Retail Customers Customer deposits 2,788 2,813 2,838 2,700 3,111 In terms of operations with individuals, the total loan Equity 792 863 870 942 1,004 portfolio was EUR 829 million at the end of December *In million Euros 2016. Mortgage and cash loans accounted for the most significant share in the loan structure. Retail deposits Moreover, owing to its stable income and effective increased relative to the previous year, to EUR 1,760 control of costs, the Bank had a cost/income ratio of million at the end of 2016. 41.2% at the end of December 2016. The net income after taxation was EUR 80,6 million. Small business loans reached the level of EUR 159 million while loans granted to farmers totalled to EUR 46 million. Small business deposits amounted to EUR 262 million. Direct and Indirect Economic Value Generated (in 000 RSD) TOTAL INCOME 2016 Total economic value generated 24,154,782 RSD Total economic value distributed through TOTAL EXPENSES 2016 operational costs, expenses related to employees, 13,060,382 RSD liabilities to the state and to the community In 2016, cost of earnings and relevant taxes and EMPLOYMENT The Bank directly provides over 3,000 jobs. contributions of the Bank amounted to 5,671,626 RSD As an active partner of the state, Banca Intesa The tax liabilities of the Bank for income tax and supports the Government’s initiatives for STABLE PARTNER OF THE STATE other taxes (without tax and fringe benefits) development of the economy. amount to 1,531,528 RSD EUR 30,9 million allocated for procurement RELIABLE SUPPORT FOR THE ECONOMY Banca Intesa cooperates with indirectly influences the stability of operations and around 350 suppliers. jobs of its suppliers. 21 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Refurbishment of the business Total Income and Expenses (in 000 RSD) premises – Bank’s headquarters The project which marked the 2016 was most cerGenerated Economic Value 2013 2014 2015 2016 tainly the renovation and relocation of the majority of Interest Income 30,811,840 27,838,612 25,419,472 22,618,727 organizational parts to the Bank’s new administration Interest Expenses -9,598,939 -6,775,049 -5,209,044 -3,704,345 building and gathering all of its functions, under one Fee and Commission Income 8,175,478 8,430,918 8,556,828 9,350,652 roof. This major project provided the employees with Fee and Commission Expenses -2,648,138 -2,781,856 -3,113,026 -3,722,472 a better quality and modern working surroundings, Net Profit on Financial Assets Held for Trading 49,264 155,267 213,419 671,814 which further improved their business efficiency, as Net Profit/Loss on Financial Assets Initially well as their mutual communication and cooperation. Carried at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss -2,503 36,493 23,176 -8,642 By purchasing the business premises of the Delta holdNet Profit/Loss on Financial Assets Available for Sale 4,332 14,333 -991 -5,626 ing and Delta sport building, at the end of 2015, the Net Gains/Losses on Exchange Rate Group has reaffirmed its long-term determination to Differences and Foreign Currency Clause 1,916,121 2,170,666 3,778,711 2,656,599 constantly reinforce its presences and operation on our Other Operating Income1 242,884 356,927 1,135,319 1,164,437 Net Expense/Income on Impairment of Financial -8,044,367 -9,168,698 -7,778,192 -4,381,721 „Constellation Serbia“– project Assets and Credit Risk Off-Balance Sheet Items for modern future Other Expenses1 2 -210,322 -972,003 -623,183 -484,642 The digital revolution, accompanied by a number of Total Economic Value Generated 20,695,651 19,305,610 22,402,489 24,154,782 changes in the market, significantly changes the tra2. Economic Value Distributed2 2.1. Operating Costs3 ditional banking industry. As part of these changes, in an increasingly complex and dynamic environment, the Supplies -475,379 -345,374 -396,967 -413,149 Bank’s response will, to a large extent, rely on the inforBuilding and Equipment Maintenance -798,584 -741,919 -750,879 -667,720 mation system. With this in mind, the Bank is commitOffice and Equipment Lease Cost -930,657 -1,092,241 -1,147,672 -1,153,891 ted to a comprehensive modernization of its informaIntellectual Services -315,092 -382,969 -477,496 -540,798 tion system, the essence of which is the Core Banking Advertising -280,923 -340,153 -320,485 -203,169 Information System (CBS). Business Travel and Training of Employees -92,586 -87,143 -70,161 -65,111 Being fully supported by the Parent Group, in order to Other Operating Costs -2,130,715 -2,623,462 -2,954,236 -3,202,813 continuously improve the service and its services, the Bank has launched the “Constellation Serbia” project – Total Operating Costs 5,023,936 -5,613,261 -6,117,896 -6,246,650 replacement of the Core banking platform by a modern 2.2. Employee Expenses3 world solution, which will place the Bank among the Payroll1 -3,223,372 -3,400,976 -3,425,028 -3,550,510 world banks which have access to the state-of-the-art Taxes and Contributions on Wages and Wage Benefits1 -1,937,113 -2,050,301 -2,014,219 -2,121,116 technology for business management. The platform, Employee Transportation -84,139 -87,141 -89,838 -90,472 which is to be implemented, is one of the best and Remuneration for Temporary and Occasional Work1 -4,569 -4,741 -4,981 -5,175 most reliable that is currently available on the market Employee Education Not Related to Their Job -6,094 -2,882 -1,485 -2,252 and is used by renowned banks worldwide. Other Personal Expenses1 -55,922 -22,076 -20,989 -45,159 The strategic objective of the “Constellation Serbia” project is to provide a platform, at the level of the Total Employee Expenses -5,311,209 -5,568,117 -5,556,540 -5,814,684 Bank, which will automate and operationally improve 2.3. Expenses Related to Liabilities to the Government3 the existing business processes, while at the same time Corporate Income Tax -623,097 -433,284 -1,093,806 -873,985 is a solid base for further business development. Taxes -183,199 -109,548 -104,886 -115,895 Banca Intesa is the first member bank to implement Expenses Related to Liabilities to the Government Total -806,296 -542,832 -1,198,692 -989,881 a standardized core-banking platform in the Group, 2.4. Community Related Expenses and in the years to come, this platform will enable the Donations and Corporate Social Responsibility -22,381 -39,027 -10,359 -9,167 modernization of products, services and processes and significantly increase the efficiency of operations in all Community Related Expenses – Total3 -22,381 -39,027 -10,359 -9,167 Group member banks. Total Distributed Economic Value -11,163,822 -11,763,237 -12,883,487 -13,060,382 3, Retained Economic Value4 9,531,829 7,542,373 9,519,002 11,094,400 Notes for 2016: 1 These items differ from the income statement in the annual report in that the Provisions for Employee Benefits, Legal Disputes and Restructuring are excluded. 2 These items differ from the income statement in the annual report in that the Operating Costs are presented in the section Economic Value Distributed in several segments stated. 3 These items differ from the income statement in the annual report in that a part of the Operating Costs is reclassified into the following segments: Employee Expenses, Expenses Related to Liabilities to the Government and Community-Related Expenses. 4 This represents BIB’s profit net of the Provisions for Employee Benefits, Legal Disputes and Restructuring, net (-285,137), Gains and Losses on Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities, net (16,932) and the Depreciation Costs (-901,852). 22 23 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Customers Women in business In addition to being an important indicator of gender Support for the Agricultural Sector equality, economic empowerment of women is one of In order to provide a long-term support to the sustainthe prerequisites for sustainable economic growth and able development of local agriculture and wanting to social progress. Programs, such as “Women in Busicontribute to risk reduction of damage incurred by ness”, which was launched by Banca Intesa in coopercertain natural disasters, Banca Intesa, in cooperation ation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and with Generali Insurance Serbia and KfW Development Development (EBRD) in 2015, are key to promotion of Bank of Germany, in 2016 developed and presented Reaffirming their long-term commitment to be a reliable European Investment Bank (EIB) for investments female entrepreneurship and overcoming the problem the market with a unique credit product on the market, partner to the public as well as private sector, given that to be made into fixed assets and permanent working of financing. The Bank has been contributing to this intended for the financing of agricultural production it is a leading bank in the market, Banca Intesa seeks to capital, and for the second year in the row, the Bank cause since 2006, by allowing entrepreneurs access to and integrated crop insurance policy, called the Agrocontribute to economic development, but also the qualhas been part of the program of the Government of financing through special credits tailored to their needs. protekt. The Agroprotekt loan can be used to finance ity of life of the wider community. In accordance with the the Republic Serbia intended for financial support working capital and raw materials for production of needs of its customers, the Bank is constantly working on to SMEs, in the procurement of production equipment. Thus, in 2016, granting of loans for the financing of agricultural crops wheat, barley, maize, sugar beet, the improvement of the existing products and introducinvestments and working capital to small and medisunflower and soya and includes crop insurance policy tion of new ones, with constant emphasis on financial One of the major initiatives launched at the level of the um-sized enterprises run by women, continued from against basic risks including hail, lightning and fire. inclusion of specific social groups and continuous care of Intesa Sanpaolo Group is the initiative called the “New the EBRD credit line. In addition to granting financial The loan is intended for registered farms of individuals customer satisfaction, in all market segments. The Bank Silk Road”, which aims to provide financial support to support funds, the educational aspect of the program and legal entities and entrepreneurs who are engaged conducts its activities in the following aspects: the Western Balkan countries whose companies, small continued as well, within which further seminars for in farming and are registered in the territory of the and medium enterprises, shall take part in projects female entrepreneurs on the topic of finance and bank Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. In 2016, the Bank • Support for the economy initiated by Chinese investors and Banca Intesa plays support were organized, for further business developreached a total of 282 loans in the amount of 986,420 • Financial inclusion and education an important role of the regional coordinator, in this ment of their companies. In 2016, the Bank reached a Euros, the equivalent to 5.44% of all short-term loans • Customer satisfaction project. Namely, the Intesa Sanpaolo Group intends total of 415 disbursed loans, amounting to 4,6 million in the amount, or 5.52% of loans in the number of realto provide loans in the amount of billion of Euros to Euros, within the “Women in Business” program. ized towards registered farms and individuals in 2016. Support for the Economy small and medium enterprises of the Western Balkans, involved in the initiative “One belt – one road” (the Aware of the importance of female entrepreneurship Apart from that, in 2016, the Bank has granted other As the largest lender in the domestic economy, in 2016 New Silk Road) in Southeast Europe, and all owing for further growth of the local economy, Banca Intesa loans intended for agricultural producers: as well, Banca Intesa endeavoured to ensure better to the network of banks in Serbia, Croatia, Albania, continued with the program of credit support for access to funding for all corporate segments – large, Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The goal of the unemployed women and women entrepreneurs in In 2016 Banca Intesa made available to its customers micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, small program “One belt – one road” (the New Silk Road) is Vojvodina, in form of loans for the purchase of equipfrom the agricultural segment subsidized loans in business, registered farms, municipalities and the public to fix the infrastructure gap with the West by means of ment and loans to finance business start-up. In 2016, cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and sector – and thus stimulate investments and contribute significant investments, estimated at around 11 billion this credit line from the Bank directed 96,440.58 Euros Environmental Protection. The program in 2016 to better living conditions for all citizens of Serbia. of dollars, the amount planned for the next decades. for the empowerment of women in small business. included long-term and short-term loans to farmers Continuing with the implementation of the strategic with a view to the purchase of raw materials, seeds, program of support to the economic development of The program of support for small and medium The bank has directed about 3% of the total realization of fruits, vegetables, livestock and equipment. In 2016 the country, at the end of 2016, together with the enterprises of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, will further the small business segment to focused support to women within the said program, 6.7 million of Euros was disEuropean Investment Fund (EIF), Banca Intesa signed strengthen the capacity of Banca Intesa, in order to proin business through the aforementioned credit products. bursed through 969 number of loans, which accounted the first agreement in Serbia under the COSME vide support to this strategically important segment of for about 19% of all loans in the segment of registered Program of the European Commission, for small and economy and its customer base. Banca Intesa is involved Given the fact that 90% of companies which are farms in 2016 of the disbursed amount, or 12.1% of medium enterprises. Owing to the financial support in the process of strengthening this sector of economy managed by women, have less than ten employees, the disbursed number thereof. of the European Commission, the EIF has provided a through its own range of products for liquidity, working the challenge, the financial institutions in Serbia are to direct guarantee which will enable Banca Intesa, for the capital, investments and energy efficiency, participation be faced with in the future, will be the development of In 2016 the cooperation continues with the Bank period of two following years, to support 3,000 small in programs of subsidized loans of the Government of microfinance aligned with the needs of entrepreneurs for Guarantee Fund of the Autonomous Province of and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia with a 60 milSerbia, as well as providing favourable credit lines in easier obtaining of investment funds. Positive examples Vojvodina in providing favorable loans intended for lion EUR loan, under favourable terms with a longer cooperation with international financial institutions. coming from female entrepreneurs in Serbia are numerfarmers for investments to be made into equipment, repayment period and without a mortgage as collateral. As a result of these efforts, during the first four months ous, and their promotion is supported by the awarding machinery and arable land. Based on these programs COSME is the EU program for the competitiveness of of 2016, Banca Intesa recorded a portfolio growth of of the “Flower Success for Woman Dragon”, traditionally a total of 11 loans were disbursed, in the amount of entrepreneurs and small and medium enterprises with total loans in the segment of entrepreneurs and small organized by the Association of Business Women. 395,000 Euros, which makes 2.3% of the total longa total budget of 2.3 billion EUR in the period from and medium-sized enterprises by 5% compared to the term loans of the RPG segment. 2014 to 2020. The COSME loan guarantee facility same period of the last year, with a significant degree of Award for the best communication approach provides credit guarantees and counter-guarantees to further improvement in asset quality. During this period, In 2016, for the communicative approach and impleKreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) Banca financial institutions so as to enable them to provide the Bank disbursed a total of 181 million of Euros of new mentation of an integrated communication campaign Intesa and KfW Development Bank signed agreemore funding through loans and leasing for small and loans, to entrepreneurs and small and medium enterto promote the project aimed at supporting the ments in late 2015 on three credit line facilities in the medium-sized enterprises. prises, providing thus an important contribution to the empowerment of women’s entrepreneurship in Serbia total amount of EUR 46,5 million, from which Banca The Bank continued to contribute to the reinforcefurther recovery of the economic activity in the country. “Women in Business”, Banca Intesa was awarded the Intesa would lend funds in the form of favourable loans ment of the local economy and continuous granting Well aware of the trends and needs of the market, Banca prestigious annual award in the field of marketing comfor micro, small and middle-sized enterprises, registered of favourable loans intended for different business Intesa has established a separate organizational unit munications “Recognition 2016” (PRiznanje 2016), farms and local governments. The funds, from this segments. Thus, during 2016, small and medium (EU Desk), which will provide professional assistance to granted by a national association of professionals in line, which will be granted with the repayment term enterprises and the public sector had at their disposal the Bank’s customers in finding attractive projects and the field of public relations – the Serbian PR Society of seven years, have enabled the customers to finance the long-term loans from the credit line facility of the funds to be financed by the EU funds. (Društvo Srbije za odnose s javnošću). investment projects and permanent working capital 24 25 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 for a period longer than was the case so far, with a Accessibility of Facilities loans, and who have the possibility of being granted and needs of athletes with disabilities, for which, being much favourable repayment period and a longer grace When refurbishing its branches, Banca Intesa pays additional cash. The main characteristic of this loan is the largest corporate donor, it received a special recperiod. The partnership of the KfW Development Bank special attention to the accessibility of its facilities and insurance for the beneficiaries in case of full permanent ognition of the Paralympic Committee of Serbia for its and Banca Intesa is also characterized by the introducto adapting them to enable access to persons with disability (100%) due to an accident and in case of loss contribution to the development and popularization of tion of innovations into the financial sector of Serbia. disabilities. Around 27% of more than 160 branches of one’s job. In 2016, 21,515 loans were realised in the Paralympic sport in the country. Thus, KfW in cooperation with Banca Intesa and the within the Banca Intesa business network in Serbia total amount of EUR 80,805,992 which enabled cusGenerali Insurance, has developed a loan for farmers are fully accessible, whether they are level-access tomers to service their outstanding liabilities with Banca with insurance. This form of loan has been devised as a facilities or facilities equipped with adequate ramps for Intesa and other banks, which was 31.2% of the total Upgrading the Bank’s website combination of loans for farmers and insurance of crop pedestrians and wheelchairs, in accordance with the cash loans of the Bank during the year. In line with its new communication strategy and visual and shall provide the Serbian farmers with better risk Rulebook on Technical Standards of Accessibility. standards introduced at the end of 2014, the Bank has insurance. The local self-governments were also able to At the same time in more than 70 percent of the Visa Classic Paralympic donor credit card – the first made significant visual and functional improvements apply for the loans for financing infrastructural investbranches within the Banca Intesa business network, charity payment card in the country. With the activation of of its official corporate website. The said upgrade of ment projects of municipalities and public companies. banking transactions can be carried out at tables that the Visa Paralympic donor card, each beneficiary becomes the corporate Bank’s website implies a completely new meet the needs of persons with disabilities. The bank a donor to the Foundation of the Paralympic Committee layout, which is defined by the Parent Group, clearly From these credit lines, which were signed with KfW in is constantly working to improve their networks and of Serbia. In 2016, 309 cards have been issued. presented content displayed through sections, and late 2015 and during 2016, a total of 4,203,000 Euros the traditional banking concept of work that implies a clearer description of products and services, along was realized in the KfW Public segment, while the Rural performance of all operations at the counters, and is New service offerings for students – In order to with easier navigation. Also, the upgrade of the Bank’s Bank KfW invested a total of EUR 6,961,000. Otherwise, now changing it by a new concept of work posts at provide support to students, the Bank seeks to create website is part of the project of unifying all websites of since the establishment of cooperation with the KfW desks whose upper plane is at a height of about 75 cm an offer that easily fits the financial needs they face the Parent Group member banks. Development Bank in 2008, Banca Intesa has signed a with a certain depth approach. These tables are also on daily basis. In that regard, the Bank has, in 2016, The website design automatically adapts to the device total of eight lines of credit with this financial institution. equipped to deal with cash, making them appropriate presented a new offer of current accounts for students: on which it is being displayed, and it features interfor the needs of persons with disabilities. Student Hit. A grade-A account. active loan calculators, folders, maps of branches and In the area of support ​​ to the agricultural production, ATMs, and there is also a possibility of changing the Banca Intesa has, during 2016, organized the fourth Responding to the Community needs The Student Hit current account provides users with font size, which is of great help to people with visual round of the Intesa Farmer competition, an annual the possibility of opening dinar and foreign currency impairments. Apart from being adapted for the blind selection of the best agricultural producer in Serbia. Apart from being the first on the market to introduce account, free of charge, to receive money within the and visually impaired people in terms of access to its The most successful participants of the competition in loans for the purchase of real estate in Euros with fixed country and abroad, as well as free SMS notification content, the Bank’s corporate website also offers a the categories of farming, agriculture, horticulture and monthly instalment throughout the repayment period of payment. Also, during the first year of this package, map of branches, listing its basic characteristics, includanimal husbandry, as well as in the category of Intesa of up to 20 years, but also the one to further improve young academics are exempt from monthly mainteing whether the branch is adapted for people with Slow Food for small agricultural producers, which was its offer of housing loans indexed in Euros, which were nance fee and have, free of charge, the Visa Inspire paydisabilities. This possibility is also available to users of introduced in 2016 in partnership with the Associapproved with an even lower interest rate, the Bank ment card, which can be used without commissions in mobile banking Intesa Mobi. ation of Slow Food Serbia, Banca Intesa awarded the continued to market its portfolio of inclusive products: 11 countries within the region, as well as to make safe Also, the contents of the Bank’s website has been participants with a trip to the Slow Food Fair of Good Intermezzo Cash Loan a loan with insurance with the purchases over the Internet. The card can be linked to a upgraded as well, (bilingual Serbian / English) by Tastes in Stuttgart, as well as vouchers worth 100,000 possibility of postponing the payment of instalments is PayPal account and contactless payments can be made enhancing the Q&A section depending on the type of dinars for the purchase of raw materials. In the fourth a non-purpose loan that is approved to all individuals at points of sale tagged payWave. In addition, bearing products / services and segments (population / econround of the competition Intesa Farmer more than 550 who are employees employed for an indefinite period in mind the habits and needs of the younger population omy / small business / agriculture / etc.). farmers signed up, whereby the jury was led by the of time. It is specific given that it offers the possibility to have as many of their duties and obligations done general criteria that include the annual results achieved of postponing the payment of the instalment, in form online, Student Hit account includes the use of mobile Financial Education through agricultural production, possession of one’s of insurance in case of unfavourable loss of job or full and internet banking, free of charge. own storage, the involvement of family members in the permanent disability, which further gives the customers Given that Banca Intesa is dedicated to spreading manufacturing process, and established cooperation increased security during the repayment period. A total Banca Intesa, the largest knowledge on economic and financial issues, as well with Banca Intesa. of 38,224 loans amounting to EUR 97,929,493 which donor to Paralympic sport as to education about modern banking services and was 37.9% of the total realised cash loans over the Combining its market interest with innovation and prinresponsible money management, the employees of the Financial Inclusion and Education year, were sold during 2016. ciples of social and financial inclusion, so as to provide Bank have, in 2016 as well, by means of the program of long-term support to the sustainable development of individual volunteering taken active part in several proBy constant innovations that it introduces into the offer Senior Cash Loan a cash loan in dinars intended for Paralympic sport in Serbia, in 2016, the Bank continued jects intended for customers, entrepreneurs, women, of its financial products and services, Banca Intesa takes the oldest citizens. During the whole period of loan with the implementation of the financial mechanism and the youth. into account the specific requirements the customers repayment, the loan beneficiary has life insurance of long-term support to the Paralympic Committee of might have in different periods of their lives, and while included in the price of the loan and covers the remainSerbia. By renouncing part of the amount of fees and One of the most important projects of the Bank is developing special inclusive products, the Bank strives ing transactions made by Visa Paralympic Charity payment most certainly empowering women in business. In to facilitate access to a wider range of the banking debt, not burdening the family if death occurs. The Sencards, the Bank has made a decisive contribution cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction products and services which are otherwise not easily ior Cash Loan has been a part of the standing offer of to the operational sustainability of the Paralympic and Development (EBRD) and the Frankfurt School of accessible to its citizens. Furthermore, the Bank strives Banca Intesa since 2011, and the Bank granted 40,099 Committee of Serbia in the Olympic year, which sets Finance, Banca Intesa has, from November 2015 to May to make financial services equally available in economloans in 2016, in the amount of EUR 62,682,999 which a unique example among sports organizations in the 2016, organized five seminars for women in business. ically underdeveloped parts of our country as well, so made up 24.2% of the total cash loans in 2016. country and abroad. By implementing this model of A seminar titled “How to manage your finances and one fourth of the total number of branches (26.5%) are inclusive finance, the Bank has, in 2016, supported by improve your business with the support of the banks” located in cities and municipalities where the level of Refinancing loan with additional cash with insurthe Paralympic Committee of Serbia with more than was held in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Niš. development is less than 80% of the national average ance is approved to all private individuals who are 5.5 million of dinars. Apart from the financial support, Nearly 250 business women, owners and company defined by the categorisation of the level of developemployees for an indefinite time, who can refinance the Bank has, in 2016 implemented a communications directors of existing and potential customers of the Bank ment by the National Agency for Regional Development. their liabilities as per current accounts, credit cards and campaign to raise awareness about the achievements took part, and the lectures were held by representatives 26 27 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 of Banca Intesa and EBRD. Renowned speakers and exchange risks,” and Danilo Mrvaljević, Head of Customer satisfaction reports to the President of the Executive Board of the experts in the field of banking and finance introduced Treasury and ALM Department, with “Alternative Bank, is responsible for resolution thereof. the participants to ways on how to improve the manliquidity management: government bonds and REPO For Banca Intesa, customer care is an ongoing process Each customer can make personal contact with the agement of their own finances, by giving them insight transactions” presentation. of listening to the needs of customers who, through employees of the Customer Satisfaction Office. In case into the best practices of working capital management, Among the guest speakers were also Gianluca Salsecci, the feedback they provide be it on issues, complaints, the customer is not satisfied with the response, he/ cash flow, revenues and expenses, and advised them Head of the International macro-economic research suggestions or compliments, and finally customer she can address the National Bank of Serbia, as the on how to ensure adequate support of the banks for Department of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, who satisfaction survey participate in the development second-instance authority, for possible mediation. further business development. shared his experiences with those present, in the area and improvement of products and services of the of “Economic outlook of the region in which the Intesa Bank, define communication strategies and developed The Bank has been monitoring customer satisfaction At seminars, the entrepreneurs were presented with the Sanpaolo Group operates” as well as the renowned business networks. Surveys represent the beginning of since 2008. In order to evaluate the level of customer opportunity to get acquainted with the diagnostic tool basketball coach Dan Peterson, who gave an interestthe process of constant improvement, and customers satisfaction a scientifically tested and well-established called “Business Lens,” which can help them recognize ing motivational lecture. are becoming the initiators of actions for improvement. approach has been used, based on the model of the the strengths and weaknesses of one’s business, as well Maintenance of an exceptional level of customer loyalty, European Customer Satisfaction Index (ECSI). The use as its potential for further development, but they have The Banca Intesa employees have traditionally supis achieved through transparent and timely communicaof this model, makes it possible to compare the results also had the opportunity to expand their network of ported the project “The Banking Officer”, organized tion and undertaking of action upon each and every of Banca Intesa Beograd with the achievements of the contacts and share knowledge and experience with by the local branch office of the United Nations Global request. Customer care is defined, among other things, banks in the local banking market, but also with other other business women from Serbia. Compact, with the aim of providing education for by the program “We listen to you 100%”. ISBD banks (member banks of International Subsidiary students and teachers in secondary schools, on various Banks Division ). ECSI includes a wide range of key Apart from that, taking into account the specific needs topics from the banking practice. The activity is realized Communication Mechanisms factors: image, branch organization, the relationship of its customers, the Bank has developed an informative within the Working group for CSR in the banking sector, In line with the Law on protection of financial service with the staff, price and quality, after sales support, promotional material on the Bank’s products and serpresided by the National Bank of Serbia. users, complaint in written form is deemed a comcomplaints resolution and other. Since 2016, in addition vices (leaflets, posters in the Bank’s branch offices, ads in plaint. The customers have the following channels of to customer satisfaction surveys from the segments newspapers, etc.) all in the language of minorities living The AmChamps Summer School is a one-week communication with Banca Intesa at their disposal: of individuals, small businesses and small and mediin Vojvodina. It is a perennial initiative to overcome educational program of the American Chamber of • P hone: + 381 310 8888 um-sized enterprises, associated segments of corporate language barriers for the users of the products and Commerce in Serbia (AmCham), which allows students • E-mail: kontakt@bancaintesa.rs and multinational customers joined the research and services of the Bank, which may occur among minority to acquire knowledge and skills that can help them • Fax: +381 11 310 8855 thus satisfaction surveys cover all segments of the groups, due to the lack of understanding of the lanskilfully overcome the first challenges of the modern •M  ail: Customer Satisfaction Office, Milentija Bank. Based on the model, the satisfaction index and guage, and in particular, the banking terminology. More business environment. This school, whose this year’s Popovića 7b, 11070 Novi Beograd the loyalty index are obtained. specifically, in 2016, it was the material in Hungarian main partner was Banca Intesa, was created with the • Personal contact, when a customer hands in a written that was prepared for credits aimed at farms from the idea of having as many student attendees as possible, complaint Along with the internal customer satisfaction survey, area of ​​the Vojvodina region in areas inhabited by the be given the opportunity to gain useful business knowl•O  fficial contact form on the official internet presentawhich solely involves the customers, Banca Intesa has, at Hungarian minority. This material was developed for edge from the successful business people at lectures tion of the Bank the level of the retail segment, implemented a comparathe new loan product Agroprotekt credit with free of and workshops and to apply thereof. In 2016, Heads of In order to improve relationships with customers who tive (benchmarking) research as well, which enables comcharge insurance of arable crops which is specific and, three organizational units of the Bank, supported this have addressed the Bank with a complaint, as well as parison with competitors in the local market, and not just as such, assumed to be harder to understand by the year’s program as volunteer presenters. the general aspect of CSR, the processing and response when it comes to index customer satisfaction and loyalty, minorities. time to customer complaints significantly decreased but also of all of the individual indicators (image, price in comparison to 2015 and 2014, and in this sense, and quality of products and services, relationships with In 2016, the Bank has also implemented a series of Business skills academy the average response time to the complaint addressed the staff, organizational efficiency, support after sales, one-day workshops for customers in the small business Banca Intesa was awarded with the plaque for the to the Bank is much less than the actual period set handling of complaints, electronic banking services, etc.). segment. Workshops for young managers were organofficial entry into the program of the Business Skills forth by the law. Also, in regards to the processing of The results in 2016 clearly indicate the leadership of Banca ized in cooperation with the consultancy company Academy of the Responsible Business Forum in 2016. other demands or requests of the customers, the Bank Intesa in the field of customer satisfaction and loyalty of FranklinCovey and were held in Kragujevac, Niš and Business skills academy is a program created to facilitate adheres to the same principles that were adopted in its customers. Other studies have also confirmed the high Belgrade on the topic of “The Seven Habits of Highly the transfer of business knowledge and skills to organregard to the processing of complaints, although it is level of customer satisfaction, especially in the aspects of Effective People”. izations and social enterprises and thus contribute to not thus bound by the regulatory framework. trust that they place in the Bank, customer care, followed increasing their efficiency and commercial viability In February 2016, the Executive Board of the Bank by the relationship with employees and the support they Sixth Intesa Academy for Customers and market visibility. The program is based on a comadopted an internal regulatory document Parent provided after the sale. All of these aspects have been Banca Intesa, being a reliable partner, presented its corbination of lectures, consultancy and mentoring, and Bank Guidelines for the management of complaints, further confirmed by a high NPS (net promoter score) porate customers with practical and applicable advice based on the assessment of needs of organizations and payment cards claims and related customers’ and which makes it clear that the Banca Intesa customers for successful business through a series of exclusive the voluntary participation of professionals from the supervisory authorities’ requests, which, together are prepared to recommend its products and services to lectures within the sixth annual Intesa Academy, which Bank who are willing to, free of charge, and through with procedures for handling customer complaints, persons they are close to, which certainly builds on the was visited by about 100 guests. individual voluntary commitment, transfer knowledge is an important part of a set of internal documents clear intention to continue the cooperation with Bank, in The event was opened by Francesco Lupo, a member and experience of their area of expertise ​​ to civil society defining roles, responsibilities and rules for the orderly the period to follow. The trust placed in the Bank, and a of the Executive Board and Head of Corporate Division, organizations and social enterprises. resolution of complaints and disputes regarding the high level of satisfaction with the services and products as well as Rajka Šinik Vulić, Acting Head of PR and marBy entering into the Academy, Banca Intesa plans protection of the rights of the Banca Intesa customers. offered by the Bank has also been expressed by their keting communications Department who welcomed all to support the Academy program, by conferring With these documents, the Bank goes beyond the customers who belong to the segment of large and the guests. its experience and knowledge, through voluntary legal obligation, which confirms its strategic dedication multinational companies. This is why Banca Intesa should Speakers at the Intesa Academia Workshop 2016 engagement of as many colleagues with different to be fully committed to a continuous dialogue with its be satisfied with the results, but above all to vigorously were Branislav Čukvas, Head of Capital Market Office, expertise as possible. The activities will be conducted customers, in order to maintain mutual relations at a continue improving its services and products, with the who spoke on the topic “Financial risk management through the corporate volunteering program “Intesa high level. Complaints processing has been centralized aim of achieving sustainable continuity of high customer in companies: hedging interest rate and foreign from the Heart”. in such way that one organizational unit which directly satisfaction and loyalty of its customers. 28 29 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Upgrading the e-commerce services For the purpose of improving the e-commerce services, Transparency of data Employees in 2016 Banca Intesa introduced a new e-commerce Establishing a relationship of trust implies a full underinfrastructure Nest Pay. Nest Pay is a system that prostanding of the characteristics and values of products, vides secure purchase by payment cards on the internet so Banca Intesa strives, in addition to complying with selling points, in accordance with the applicable credit the Law on the Protection of Financial Service Concard standards. In addition to the existing functionality, sumers, to additionally contribute to simplifying the Nest Pay allows you to pay in instalments, acceptance communication on its products. of various credit card brands, support for different Banca Intesa team comprises dedicated and profesEqual Opportunities languages, and improved system for monitoring the In line with the Law on the protection of financial service sional people who, using their knowledge, experience malicious user behaviour. customers, in advertising its products, the Bank states all and ideas enhance the Bank’s operations, and therefore Equal opportunities during employment and promotion Also, during 2016, Banca Intesa continued to promote the costs that shall be borne by the consumers. The Bank constitute an important resource. Therefore, only by in Banca Intesa are guaranteed by the Code of Ethics the latest payment technologies wanting to make the is transparent in its price policy, which it always shows creating an environment which fosters open communiprinciples, in compliance with which imply objectivity Wave2Pay service of contactless payments via mobile clearly and visibly along with representative examples cation, encourages the expression of ideas and individuand consistent conduct, preventing favouritism, abuse phone, available to all its customers. Great efforts were containing data in accordance with the Law on the Proality, provides equal opportunities for development and or discrimination based on any personal feature such invested in education aimed at the better understandtection of Financial Service Consumers. When it comes creates a sense of belonging, only then can employees as gender, ethnicity, religion, political beliefs, language, ing of this technology to all parties involved in the to contracts, the Bank strives to formulate them so that reach their full potential and motivation to actively age, disability or trade union membership. In keeping payment process, with particular focus on the training they are simple to understand, reducing any possibility contribute to common goals. In order to recognize records on employees, Banca Intesa uses an internal of employees in the host network of the Banca Intesa of misunderstanding and ambiguous interpretation by and meet the needs of employees, in the best manner personnel application where employees are able, if they POS terminals. Final and inclusive of December 2016, providing clear and exhaustive information. The Bank possible, the following key areas have been defined, on wish, to enter and update their personal information this service reported more than 3,100 users. notifies its customers in a timely manner on any change which this process will be focused: themselves. in the contracts and their terms and conditions. In 2016, In order to further improve the quality of services within the Bank has not recorded a single case of non-compli• Equal opportunities At the end of 2016, Banca Intesa had a total of 3,032 the business network of the Bank, a survey was initiated ance with regulations or voluntary codes, which refer to • Human resource development employees, of whom 70.6% were women. in 2016, based on the “Mystery Shopper” methodoladequate notification of customers about its products • Employee satisfaction ogy. The survey, among other things, enables each and services. branch to be considered as a separate entity and that, based on the results obtained, initiate and undertake Data security activities which improve the quality of service provided Total number of employees by category and gender and consequently, directly affect the experience and As defined in the Code of Ethics, the protection of per2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 satisfaction of the most frequent customers. The task sons, their assets and valuables as well as a multitude of Managers Officers Employees Managers Officers Employees Managers Officers Employees Managers Officers Employees Managers Officers Employees set in 2016 as part of the “We listen to you 100%” prodata and internal organisational processes, is conducted M F M F M F M F M F M F M Ž M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F gram was also the development of the so-called instant in Banca Intesa in a way that fully meets the criteria of feedback tools, which, in future, will enable faster reliability, continuity and confidentiality. 26 20 167 264 722 1,935 23 16 166 261 698 1,875 20 15 160 252 713 1,865 21 16 157 252 703 1,861 22 14 160 234 709 1,893 and easier interaction with customers when collecting feedback either via an email channel, the website of the In addition to its legal obligations, Banca Intesa complies T Bank, the interactive voice response or at the “point of with the criteria of absolute transparency in informing O T 46 431 2,657 39 427 2,573 35 412 2,578 37 409 2,564 36 394 2,602 contact”, i.e. at the actual branch. its customers of their rights to privacy and the way it A treats their personal information. During 2016, in the L Digital info sense of the definition of banking, as well as business In 2016, the Bank continued with its active improvement secrets, Banca Intesa did not find any founded complaint of its network of branch offices. A total of eight branch in connection with the violation of customer privacy or offices have been adapted, while some of them have any disclosure, leakage or theft of customer informaTotal number 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 of employees been refurbished so as to provide greater comfort to custion. The three complaints that the Bank did receive, by business Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female tomers: a library, internet zone, coffee corner, 24h Zone had no grounds in terms of a real violation of privacy. locations with ATMs and info-terminal. In addition, the Bank has Belgrade* 459 963 464 969 481 986 491 1,013 496 1,008 introduced a Digital info corner, which is a place where Other locations** 456 1,256 423 1,183 412 1,146 390 1,116 395 1,133 customers, with the help of professional staff, can be Total 915 2,219 887 2,152 893 2,132 881 2,129 891 2,141 informed about the electronic banking services. * The number of employees in Belgrade includes all employees at the Bank Headquarters located in Belgrade, as well as all In some new branch offices, the latest generation of branch employees in the Belgrade Regional Centre. ATMs has been installed, as well as devices for Digital ** Employees in other locations include Bank Headquarters employees located in Novi Sad, as well as all branch employees in all the towns in Serbia in which the Bank operates (which include all branches in the three remaining Regional Centres: RC Signage. Digital Signage is part of the DigiCal project, Novi Sad, RC Kragujevac, RC Niš).This interpretation of other locations is valid throughout the report. *** The Bank does not employ permanent third parties. which takes place at the level of Intesa Group and aims to bring together all communication channels to the customer. Digital Signage enables broadcasting of advertising content on the monitors that are placed in the branch offices, and owing to the state-of-the-art technology, the PR and Marketing Communication Department can manage these contents via a single platform. 30 31 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Type of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Right to 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Human Resource Development employment maternity leave contract by location Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female The total number Opportunities are equally available to all employees, of employees who Fixed-term 29 56 31 40 49 79 52 88 47 115 exercised their 287 270 168 166 148 and in particular for continuous professional and perright to maternity sonal development, while newly acquired knowledge Permanent 886 2,163 856 2,112 844 2,053 829 2,041 844 2,026 leave and skills create space for different understanding of Total 915 2,219 887 2,512 893 2,132 881 2,129 891 2,141 Rate of return the work process, proposing new business solutions or to work after the end of 99.65% 99.26% 96.4% 98.8 % 98.8% more efficient overcoming of the challenges faced. maternity leave Type of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Rate of Transparency and objectivity of the process indicators employment contract by remaining in are the main principles which the Bank adheres to in Fixed-term Permanent Fixed-term Permanent Fixed-term Permanent Fixed-term Permanent Fixed-term Permanent employment 96.17% 95.47% 98% 95.83 % 91.6%* location 12 months after monitoring the realization of its employees and their Belgrade 12 1,410 39 1,394 94 1,373 99 1,405 78 1,426 returning to work fair remuneration. Assessment of performance was Other locations 73 1,639 32 1,574 34 1,524 41 1,465 84 1,444 * Out of 14 employees who have left their position, 11 of them have done so willingly. made for 95.63% employees in 2016, and thus the Total 85 3,049 71 2,968 128 2,897 140 2,870 162 2,870 Bank preserved continuity relative to previous years 2015 (93.19%), 2014 (94.87%), 2013 (93.45%) and *In terms of employment type, there are no part-time employees in the Bank, so all employees are engaged as fulltime employees. 2012 (94.64%). Occupational Health and Safety Gender 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Banca Intesa internally ensures studying and education structure Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Issues related to the occupational health and safety opportunities to its employees in the form of training, Employee in Banca Intesa is defined in the Collective Bargaining seminars, workshops and especially through the distingender 29.20% 70.80% 29.19% 70.81% 29.52% 70.48% 29.27% 70.73% 29.4% 70.6% Agreement, the Rulebook on Occupational Health guished e-learning platform that includes various online structure and Safety, and the Act on the Assessment of Risk in training programmes. Management employee Workplaces and in the Working Environment of the 56.52% 43.48% 58.97% 41.03% 57.14% 42.86% 40% 60% 42.3% 57.7% gender Bank. The Collective Agreement and Rulebook on the Occasionally, the Bank publishes Rulebooks and other structure OHS define the rights and procedures in this area, and internal tools that facilitate spreading knowledge on indithe Act on the Assessment of Risk defines preventive vidual relevant themes. Besides, the Bank also supports 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 measures for safe and healthy work in the workplace employees in initiatives to externally acquire the necesAge Under Between Over 50 Under 30 Between Over 50 Under Between Over 50 Under 30 Between Over 50 Under 30 Between Over 50 and the need for personal protective equipment. The sary knowledge and skills, ensuring financial support for structure 30 30 and 50 30 and 50 30 30 and 50 30 and 50 30 and 50 years of years of years of years of years of years of years of years of years of years of age age years of age years of years of age age years of age age years of age said documents include the following themes: personal these types of educational activity, as well as for various age age age age age age age Employee protective equipment, training and education, comstudy trips with guaranteed return to their job. age structure 9.76% 75.47% 14.77% 7.77% 77.23% 15% 9.42% 74.88% 15.70% 7.41% 75.61% 16.98% 10% 74.5% 15.5% plaint mechanism, the right to refuse hazardous work, Management and periodical inspections. Being a member of the Intesa Sanpoaolo Group, in / 84.78% 15.22% / 66.67% 33.33% / 80% 20% / 80% 20% 1.2% 79.1% 19.8% age structure 2016, the Bank has encouraged the international career The injury rate represents the frequency of injuries development, as well as gaining of new professional during the reporting period, for every 100th employee. knowledge through the exchange of experience with The preservation of jobs is one of the priorities of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group so Banca Intesa Beograd strives to the colleagues from the Group. maintain the employee turnover rate at stable levels. Injury rate Reporting period 2016 employees Male Female In late 2015, the pilot phase of the project “SinteZa” Employee turnover 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0.097 0.389 was launched, aimed at improving sales and manageM F M F M F M F M F Total 0.486 ment skills of employees in the Bank’s sales teams, better Newly employed 60 74 60 60 67 78 71 85 103 140 cooperation within the teams, as well as increasing the *In 2016, there were no cases of occupational diseases. Total number of efficiency of the process at all management levels. The 134 120 145 156 243 newly employed The rate of lost days represents the frequency of lost idea is that employees who are gathered in a special Task Left the Bank 63 137 88 127 61 107 83 88 93 128 days due to injuries for every 100th employee. force team convey, in the best manner possible, to their <30 8 26 10 14 8 11 8 14 17 15 colleagues, the new standards in the business process Rate of lost days Reporting period 2016 and thus help them adapt to the new changes. 30–50 35 51 55 71 41 66 69 56 60 85 employees Male Female >50 20 60 23 42 12 30 6 18 16 28 Total number of 0.076 8.034 The pilot phase of the project aimed at improving the employees 200 215 168 171 221 Total 8.11 skills of employees working with individuals consisted who left the Bank of a total of 205 hours of mentoring activities with the Turnover rate 6.38% 7.07% 5.55% 5.67% 7.24% Rate of absence from work represents the percentage participation of 240 employees, of which the best ones, share of days of sick leave in the total number of busiwere awarded with special prizes. After its successful In order to facilitate the process of adaptation of In accordance with the current legislation of the Repubness days. completion, and the results reflecting in significant new colleagues to the work environment, in 2016, lic of Serbia, all Banca Intesa employees have the right improvement of the sales service model as well as better Rate of absence from Reporting period 2016 Banca Intesa, defined an activity, launched last year, of to maternity leave. Being a responsible employer, the customer experience in the Bank’s branches, the “Sinwork – employees Male Female monitoring and supporting all newly employed, which Bank guarantees a return to the job for all employees teZa” was officially launched in April 2016. The project implies active communication with mentors, support who exercise this right. 0.38 3.04 included another 29 branches in the Regional Centre of manuals and meetings with new employees. Total 3.42 Belgrade, and 10 branches initiated the pilot phase for *In 2016, there were no fatal outcomes. the small business segment. 32 33 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Corporate Volunteering Around 50 employees presented Banca Intesa at the Training Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female In 2013, Banca Intesa launched a corporate volunteerseventh in a row ISBD Olympic Games, which was held Total number of training ing program, “Intesa from the Heart”, the goal of which in Portorož and Koper, in September 2016. More than 16,065 31,762.5 26,422.5 64,825 22,070 49,147.5 29,754.5 59,785.5 33,900 61,580 hours by gender was to contribute to the community by putting the time, 400 colleagues took part in the competitions, and in Average number of training talents and knowledge of its employees at its disposal. particular those from: 17.56 14.31 29.79 30.12 24.71 23.05 33.77 28.08 42,22 35.43 hours per year by gender* Employees can submit proposals themselves for volunBank Koper (Slovenia), VUB Bank (Slovakia), Intesa Santeering engagements and the organization of actions, paolo Bank (Romania), Privredna banka Zagreb (Croa2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thus making volunteering a true part of our corporate tia), Intesa Sanpaolo Bank (Albania),CIB Bank (Hungary), culture. See the chapter “Community” for more about Intesa Sanpaolo Bank (Bosnia and Herzegovina), the ISP the numerous activities implemented during 2015. Card company and for the first time, the colleagues Managers Officers Employees Managers Officers Employees Managers Officers Employees Managers Officers Employees Managers Officers Employees from the Eurozone Investment Fund from Italy. Internal Communication Total number Under the auspices of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, more of training hours 720 11,025 36,082.5 607.5 18,342.5 72,297.5 637.5 8,145 62,435 950 19,025 69,565 1,425 14,590 79,465 by employee category* than 350 colleagues from Italy and seven member Average number of training WEB TV and ONE DESK platform states of the ISBD division took part in the third in a 15.65 25.58 13.58 15.85 42.6 28.1 18.21 19.77 24.22 25.67 46.51 27.13 41.61 43.55 36.58 hours by employee WEB TV a modern, simple and easily accessible row Istra marathon, which was held in April 2016, in * The division into employee categories is derived from the Bank’s HR system. channel through which employees are able to learn Slovenia. For the first time, Banca Intesa had thirteen about any novelties in the Group in different markets of its representatives, since, with the support of the Banca Intesa has, during 2016 successfully developed provides an annual leave contribution, meal allow– is available in all the member banks of the Intesa Group, all of the applied athletes went to Portorož. an innovative development program entitled “Small ances and transportation allowances. All employees in Sanpaolo Group. This project was developed with the Business Academy”, intended for current and future Banca Intesa are covered by the Collective bargaining aim of strengthening the feeling of belonging to the Care for Employees’ Children advisors for small businesses. The Academy is designed agreement, whether they are trade union members Group, and implies access to video content in the local to cover a wide range of knowledge and skills that are or not. languages of all members of the division. This is a comSports events are organized for children as well chilneeded in everyday work, such as sales, communicamunication channel resulting from years of research dren of colleagues from the Group member banks. The tion skills and conflict resolution, financial analysis, Banca Intesa employees are offered privileged terms and compliance with the trends in the application of fifth ISBD Children’s Olympiad, held in May 2016, and time management, and the use of available tools. This for loans, the right to private health insurance under the state-of theart communication solutions. Access hosted by Banca Intesa, was attended by more than program, which consists of three modules, a test and favourable terms and special conveniences and disto WEB TV is enabled by clicking on the banner located 250 children from eight member banks. As was the certification for employees who successfully complete counts for in-store purchases and travel agent’s with on the homepage of the internet portal. case in previous years, they had a chance to show what the training will be configured as a standard training which the Bank has business cooperation. Moreover, During 2016, a new international communication platthey know in football, volleyball and basketball. While for the staff at the said position. The program was the Bank plans the retirement of employees who are form, OneDesk, was launched as well. It is an online tool the football players and volleyball players competed initiated in late 2015 for all new colleagues from the at the end of their working life and disburses severthat connects employees of the ISBD division, helping to win, the basketball players had the opportunity to Business Network and since end of 2016 it is being ance retirement pay taking into account the age and them to share professional experiences and documents, attend a basketball school the Armani Junior camp for applied to the new colleagues at the headquarter. years of work. with a number of functionalities and workspaces for difboys and girls, led by the coaches of the Armani Milano ferent organizational units. The purpose of OneDesk is to basketball club. The organization of training programs for employees The complaint procedure for employees is defined link different markets, because it allows people to interact from other departments has also continued, such as in the internal documents of the Bank, which are with each other across borders and help them to expand For the twelfth year in a row, Banca Intesa has, and vocational programs for the colleagues in charge of available to employees on the internal portal. Any their professional and personal network of contacts. in 2016 as well, enabled the children of its employees the corporate sector, entitled “InCorporated”, while complaint of an employee is considered thoroughly to spend a two-week holiday in Tuscany, in the small colleagues from the Credit Management Department and the employee is provided with detailed feedback During 2016,the IntesaTim campaign continues, with the town of Follonica. This was also an opportunity for the had a series of trainings entitled “Credit Risk Managein a timely manner. In 2016, a total of 10 disputes aim of strengthening corporate values, horizontal comchildren from Serbia to meet their peers from Italy and ment Academy”. were administered in the area of labour rights, munications, team spirit and the feeling of belonging. The Egypt, spend some time with them and thus work on whereby eight of them by the former employees and campaign involves a series of activities that contribute to their independence as well. In August, this part of Italy Employee Satisfaction two appeals filed by people who are currently the employees in different organisational units knowing each was visited by 71 children of the Bank’s employees. Bank’s employees. In the same period, one internal other better and encourage any employee to think about Investing into personal and professional development procedure was administered pertaining to a potential their role in the Bank. A series of activities have been impleIn cooperation with the Foundation for international of the employees goes hand in hand with the recogcase of mobbing, which was amicably resolved. mented within the campaign. “In someone else’s shoes,” educational exchange “Intercultura”, Banca Intesa has, nition of their needs and desires, but also with the through which managers got better acquainted with the in 2016 as well, supported a one-year training program efforts to ensure that they are adequately met. The In October 2015, Banca Intesa launched a project employee colleagues they worked with on a daily basis, and abroad. The program is aimed at high school students, Bank’s focus on the overall care of the people and for the examination of its corporate culture, with the tried their hand at the tasks the employees performed. Duraged 15 to 18 years, which can easily adapt to changes, creation of prerequisites for their satisfaction with the purpose of mapping the key points that make up the ing 2016, 13 directors of organizational parts took part in and are curios and open to accept cultural and other work environment is an area in which steady progress corporate culture of the Bank and establishing what this activity. Also, the “Open Door” activity, to departments differences. Two children of the Bank’s employees comcan be observed. The degree of importance attached employees consider to be an ideal culture, and to and offices, continued, whereby their work was presented pleted the last school year in Italy, taking advantage of to this area is also the fact that employee satisfaction objectively perceive room for further improvement. to the colleagues of other organizational parts. an opportunity to learn Italian, live in a different cultural is one of the key topics in the business plan of the The research results indicated the direction which the environment and gain new experiences. Intesa Sanpaolo Group, as well as in that of Banca Bank is to take, on regular basis, if striving to improve Sports Activities Intesa. its operation and the organizational system in the years to follow. Based on the research results, a set The Intesa Sanpaolo Group regularly organises sports Besides the rights guaranteed to employees by law of activities was implemented and realized in 2016, competitions as part of its regular activities, aimed at rights to healthcare, maternity leave, severance which was devised for further improvement of the building a strong team spirit and enabling employees in retirement pay and benefits for disability the Bank internal culture, satisfaction and employee motivation. the banks to get to know each other. 34 35 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Community Support to paralympic sports Corporate volunteering Through donor support programs for the development In 2013, Banca Intesa launched a corporate volunteerand promotion of Paralympic sports, “Banca Intesa ing program, “Intesa from the Heart”, the goal of Visa Classic Paralympic”, by means of which the Bank which was to contribute to the community by putting renounces part of membership fees and transactions the time, talents and knowledge of its employees at its generated by the Paralympic Visa cards, has, in 2016, disposal. In line with such commitment, Banca Intesa provided financial support for the Paralympic Comcontinued in 2016 to incorporate new activities into the Constantly monitoring the needs of the community mittee of Serbia and its foundation in excess of 5.5 program of corporate volunteering “Intesa from the in which it operates, Banca Intesa has, for a number Intesa Sanpaolo support to the million dinar. Significant support directed at funding Heart”. of years been striving to adequately respond to them, cultural heritage of the region athletes with disabilities has made the Bank a 2016 both in the area of corporate philanthropy, as well as by In July 2016, the Marche Foundation, the Chamber special award winner of the Paralympic Committee For the sixth year in a row, Banca Intesa volunteers parreinforcing the concept of social and financial inclusion, of Commerce of Ancona, the Polytechnic University for the contribution to the development and populariticipated in a major volunteer action “Our Belgrade” but also through the development of its own projects of Marche (Università Politecnica Delle Marche), the zation of Paralympic sports in the country and the title and embellished the environment, and therefore the of social responsibility. The Bank’s concept of corporate city of Ancona and institute ISTAO, with the support of the largest corporate donor of Paralympic sports in everyday life for children who attend the “Naša bajka” social responsibility has been practically applied through of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, issued a second call Serbia. (Our Fairy Tale) nursery in Zvezdara. Having visited the the provision of support to the community, by implefor applications in the “Ecapital Culture Adriatic Start Gerontology Centre “Bežanijska Kosa” last year, in 2016, menting specific voluntary activities and reinforcing Up School”. A school for young people from the In 2016, Banca Intesa placed particular emphasis on the 50 volunteers from the Bank supported the youngest the culture of corporate volunteering. The Bank has countries of the Adriatic-Ionian area, which aims to donation of computer equipment, which has helped citizens by active participation in the improvement of strategically defined the primary aspect of its activities promote cultural and historical heritage of the region the work of various institutions and organizations in the nursery and its yard. The initiative “Our Belgrade” is directed towards the community: through the development of innovative ‘start up’ the education, health, social and non-profit sector. To being implemented in the organization of the Responsiinitiatives. boost the long-term collaboration between the civil ble Business Forum and Smart kolektiv, with the support • Heritage preservation and culture promotion Candidates aged up to 40 years from eight counand the business sector in Serbia, a donation of a of the Forum member companies and USAID, and is • Social and financial inclusion tries: Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, total of 490 computers and 150 printers was realized, now held for the eighth time. Volunteering, humanity • Support to young talents Albania, Croatian, Slovenia, Greece and Italy, had the which have been put out of use in the information and good will gathered so far 30 companies and more opportunity to submit their business ideas, whereas and communication systems of the Bank. By donating than 2,700 employees, who have done good and useful In 2016, the Bank has focused its support to health instithe minimum requirement for application was the functional computer equipment, the Bank has work for their city and its fellow citizens, and thus made tutions, projects in the field of culture and preservation necessary secondary education and English language made an important contribution to improving the susa direct impact on improving the quality of life for 9,000 of cultural heritage, as well as the numerous initiatives proficiency. tainability and improvement of working conditions in people and children. of social and humanitarian significance. For the purpose The school attended by the best candidates, began 74 organizations that deal with important social issues of development of the society and the local community its work in mid-October in the Italian city of Ancona and activities aimed at improving the quality of life of In addition, during 2016, an independent volunteer through donations, sponsorships, non-financial benefits and includes thematic variety of lectures, workshops citizens at the local level. Banca Intesa project was continued as well, called “The and volunteer activities, during 2016, a total of over and analysis of numerous case studies, followed by Volunteer Day”, which brought together as many 28 million of dinars has been invested. According to studies in the field of development and implementaApart from the aforementioned, the corporate philanas 120 volunteers from different parts of the country reports issued by Ekonometar and Business Magazine tion of a business plan, improvement of techniques thropy program allocated financial support to broadcast and who have, having invested 480 volunteer hours for 2016, among the financial institutions that operate for “start up” projects and planning and the launch the second season of a TV show of humanitarian charof working together, gave a personal contribution to in Serbia, Banca Intesa is fourth in terms of the amount of “start up” initiatives. The “ Ecapital Culture Adriacter named “With Tamara in Action”, which aims the improvement of working conditions and quality of funds allocated for the development of society and atic Start Up School “ was launched in 2015, when to raise public awareness about the problems faced by accommodation in a total of four institutions of social the local community. the school was attended by 25 young people from socially vulnerable citizens in our country. In collaboration and medical care for children in Kragujevac, Niš, Novi Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Albania, with MasterCard, Banca Intesa supported each of the Sad and Belgrade. The project has been improved in Heritage preservation Greece and Italy. families with 100,000 dinars in order to contribute to 2016, compared to the previous year, with the possiand culture promotion the improvement of their living conditions. The season bility of having the employees themselves choose the Social and financial inclusion supported by the Bank consists of episodes recorded in location and specific institutions for the care of children, In line with its commitment to contribute to the presseveral cities in the south of the country, and each aims to via online platforms, especially those who wanted to ervation of cultural and historical heritage, in 2016 the Being an integral part of the community, it is the improve the living conditions for a family from this area. visit and provide help through voluntary engagement. Bank allocated substantial funds for the promotion Bank’s responsibility to take care thereof, and this Thus, the Bank has contributed to better recognition of of art and culture through investments in support of care is featured through program of donations, with Among the numerous financial donations in the area of​​ the needs of local communities and in an efficient and regional and local cultural initiatives, including theatre which the Bank helps the community by donating health, which are aimed at improving conditions for the transparent manner harmonizes these needs with the festivals and art events. Among the many projects equipment and money, trying to support the inclutreatment, as well as the work of medical staff, those expertise and motivation of employees and volunteers. supported by the Bank during 2016, the highlights sion of specific social groups. Thus, in 2016 the Bank sent to the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Association were the celebration of Zoran Radmilović in Zaječar, the endeavoured to contribute to the solving of current of Endocrine Surgeons, of the Smederevo Hospital, The largest voluntary initiative of the Bank “Wrap a “Smederevska jesen” (Autumn in Smederevo) event, social issues through the provision of financial assisas well as the BELhospice organization, stand out. On gift, make a child smile” was also improved in 2016 as one of the oldest cultural events in the country, tance for projects in the field of education, sports, two occasions in 2016, the Bank donated funds to by applying new concepts. In fact, since 2016, “selling” Ljubičevo Equestrian Games in Požarevac, Mokranjac’s and social and health care. In addition to direct finanthe BELhospice organisation as necessary assistance in tickets / badges for the performances of the newly days in Negotin, and the regional theatre festival “Bez cial benefits, the Bank makes available time, skills and the construction of the first Hospice centre in Serbia formed “BIB band” collected funds that are used to prevoda” (“Without translation“) in Užice. energy of its employees through the program “Intesa for palliative care and palliative care of patients with support and direct assistance to children throughout from the Heart” constantly improving their volunmalignant diseases in the progressive, advanced stage Serbia. The first concert within the “BIB band plays for teering activities and opens up new opportunities to for which the prognosis is limited, since in Serbia there children” project, was held in Belgrade in December help the community. are no specialized institutions for the care of terminally in front of about 800 employees, who, having bought ill patients. about 1,100 badges or tickets for the performance, 36 37 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 collected a total of more than half a million, with which Italy in Florence in April 2017, on the grounds of the The one-week “AmChamps Summer School”, whose 560 New Year’s gifts for children with disabilities have Academy of Coverciano. Selected players were able to main partner was Banca Intesa, was organized in 2016 been bought, as well as those for the Roma children enjoy a tour of the Museum of Italian football, trainings with the aim of enabling students to acquire knowledge and children without parental care in five institutions and as well Serie A match. and skills that can help them skilfully overcome the of social and medical care. Otherwise, the “BIB band” first challenges of the modern business environment, consists of the Bank’s employees who will at concerts As part of support to the amateur sports and young regardless whether they opt for a corporate career, or and other regional centres of the Bank, i.e. in Niš, Novi talents, the Bank also supported the tennis tournament choose to start their own business. School has emerged Sad and Kragujevac, completely voluntary, and over of future champions (the Futures tournament in July as one of the sub-projects of “AmChamps Young the next year as well, donate their time and talent to 2016, in Belgrade). Leaders in Change” program of the American Chamber support the implementation of the CSR initiatives of of Commerce in Serbia, with the idea of having more the Bank and provide continuous help to the commuIn addition to supporting amateur and Paralympic students be given the opportunity to learn firsthand, nity. sports, the Bank has supported the development of personal and professional experiences and advice of sucprofessional sports at the national level by offering cessful business people, who at lectures and workshops Apart from the aformentioned, during the year, traofficial support to Water polo Association of Serbia, convey their knowledge and familiarize them with the ditional voluntary activities have been organized as which significantly contributed to the popularization of best results from their own practice. The summer school well, such as the mentoring project “Banking Officer”, this trophy sport and the extraordinary results achieved was divided into several parts: interactive lectures and intended for students and teachers of secondary schools in 2016. workshops; preparation of a start up project and conof economics in Serbia and conducted within the Worksultations with the supervisor; presentation of projects. ing group of the UN Global Compact for corporate Support to educational initiatives and institutions in From the Bank, three colleagues presented business social responsibility in banking and finance as well as the field of education, is reflected in the Bank’s supskills to the students of the final year of undergraduate the “AmChamps summer school”, the educational port of the most successful secondary institution, the studies and postgraduate studies at the University of program “Women in business”, to which the Bank and Mathematical High School, as well as support for Belgrade. The organization of the “AmChamps sumits employees contributed by individual volunteer work participation in international competitions for students mer school” was a sort of a Bank’s volunteer project lectures, workshops, trainings. There were a total of of the Faculty of Law in the field of arbitration and intergiven that the fellow presenters invested their time to nine colleagues who took part and spent about 120 national commercial law Willem C. Vis International work with students and thus gave a personal example volunteer hours in this segment. Commercial Arbitration Moot. of support to the academic community. According to the internal records, in 2016, the Bank Banca Intesa also supported the “Forum of Young Banca Intesa was also one of the strategic partners of realized a total of 4.018 volunteer hours. Leaders YES”, a three-day conference which brought the international competition in solving BBICC case together young leaders from across Serbia with the aim studies. The city of Belgrade and the Faculty of OrganSupport To Young Talents of mutual interaction and motivation for the launching izational Sciences have, for the fourth time, hosted the of initiatives in the society, as well as the work on the competition, which represents a unique opportunity for Providing support to projects aimed at children and development of their skills and circle of contacts. The students of the world universities to try and solve real young people, whether in terms of their education purpose of this forum was a gathering of 100 young business challenges. The competition brought together or mental and physical development, is one of the leaders from across the country up to 35 years of age. 16 teams from prestigious world universities, and Banca main strategic guidelines of community investment. During the conference, about 60 employee participants Intesa had the pleasure to participate in the preparation In the area of ​​education, the Bank seeks to contribute and about 40 senior students of faculties of various of case studies and set up the task. to improving the quality of education in Serbia and profiles had the opportunity to attend numerous workpromoting talents through the preparation for their shops, panels, motivational speeches and networking The task for the teams was to define the Bank’s further development, as well as performance on the cocktails devoted to the topics of apathy among three-year strategy, while focusing on innovative and job market. Also, the sponsorship activities of Banca young people and the need for their encouragement “low cost” solutions. For the preparation of the entire Intesa were focused on the promotion of the values​​ and engagement. The position of young managers in presentation, the students had had five hours in order of sport, which imply unity, solidarity and team spirit, companies was also discussed and the possibilities for to present their solutions to the members of the jury, and puts children in an environment in which in the advancement and career building in Serbia, as well composing of the representatives of Banca Intesa, as earliest period of their uprbringing confidence is built as the start-up scene in the country. Lecturers were well as other eminent representatives of the Serbian and important leadership skills are acquired, that will successful young people with interesting experiences in economy, managers and representatives of consulting accompany them throughout life. various fields, the participants of various competitions, companies. In 2016, under the auspices of the Bank, the traditional young representatives of companies, successful young Italia soccer camp was held, attended by 120 children entrepreneurs, young leaders from all over Serbia who aged from seven to 14 years. With the support of the have stood out with some of their activities, as well as national and international experts they had the opporprofessors, directors of the most successful companies tunity to learn and perfect their football skills. Namely, in Serbia, including Draginja Đurić, the President of the the young people who attended the camp of the Executive Board of Banca Intesa. national team of Italy were given the opportunity to improve their football skills following the methods of The realization of the Forum was supported by the official Italian coaching staff, and children with special Association of Economists of Serbia and the “Business talents will be further carefully monitored in order to Info Group”, under the auspices of the Kopaonik be offered the opportunity to demonstrate their skills Business Forum, as well as the leading companies from in Italy. The most successful participants of the camp Serbia, relevant professional organizations, numerous have been invited to attend the National Day Camp embassies and funds. 38 39 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Suppliers • data on the structure of proprietorship of the company is publicly available; Local Community • estimates of impacts on the community; • the financial statements of the company are publicly • consulting stakeholders; available; • procedures for granting monetary donations. • information on the sectors in which the company operates is publicly available; Certain topics stemming from the area of social respon• transparent publication of the market in which the sibility have been covered by contracts with suppliers, company operates; which, in addition to other general provisions and Banca Intesa has a significant, direct impact on the Supplier Portal– Portale Fornitori. Apart from the • anti-trust principles and principles of the protection of cooperation conditions, contain articles that relate to society, local economy and the environment, through centralized list of suppliers, the Supplier Portal includes competition, in accordance with which the company the application of technical, measures, fire protection its supply chain. As a leading bank in the market and a an area dedicated to online procurements, within which operates; measures and occupational health and safety protection large contractor, the Bank has the possibility of positively applicants are registered and if invited, they can take • social responsibility and sustainable development are measures, in line with the applicable legal regulations. influencing the development of sustainability practices part in tenders, keep up with all of the stages of the incorporated into the mission, vision or strategy of the in companies which are part of its supply chain, by process in a transparent manner. For the purpose of company; applying principles of social and environmental responbetter understanding its suppliers and their sustainabil• social responsibility principles are defined. sibility during the selection of its suppliers. ity policies, during the online registration, all suppliers are presented with a set of questions regarding social Market The Bank’s initiatives in this area are directed at the and environmental responsibility. • informing customers about products/services; following, primary aspects: • complain channels for customer comments and claims. • transparency and equality in supplier selection In accordance with the Procurement Policy and the •promoting social responsibility in the supply Procurement of Goods and Services Procedure, Working Environment chain employees in the Real Estate and Procurement • equal opportunities for employment as well as for Sustainability within the supply chain is recognized as Management Department have an obligation to promotion; a significant topic in important internal documents: report any potential conflict of interest, implement • the right of employees to collective association; Procurement Policy, the Procedure for the procurement provisions prescribing that the procurement of goods • occupational safety measures and health protection of goods and services and the Code of Ethics, which and services between the Bank and its employees and regulate all key aspects of cooperation with suppliers. family members is prohibited, and to avoid any type of Environment contacts that exceed business customs, except if they • consideration of influence on the environment when Transparency and equality have the approval of their superiors. The issue of the making strategic decisions; in supplier selection conflict of interest has been in particular defined in the • the existence of an Environmental Protection Policy; Bank’s Code of Ethics, with which, those employees, • defined key aspects of the environment, relative to Starting from the said principles, criteria for the selecwho have a direct contact with the suppliers, are well activity; tion of suppliers in the selection process in 2016 as well, acquainted. In 2016, no case of violation of the Code • annual budget planned for costs and investments in are as follows: price offered, quality i.e. adjustment of of Ethics has been recorded, nor reported by the supthe area of the environment; the characteristics of the offered goods/services to the pliers. • documented measurement and monitoring of impacts required characteristics, delivery term, payment terms on the environment conducted; and method, warranty period, servicing/maintenance Promoting social responsibilty • reporting on aspects of impacts on the environment services during and after the warranty period, existence in the supply chain that are not mandatory by law; and level of cooperation with the Bank and/or members • impact on the environment is taken into consideration of the Group, and other special conditions depending Social responsibility, as one of the criteria in the selection in the selection of suppliers; on the type of procurement. One criterion is also the of suppliers, was introduced in 2012 by the adoption • the application of some volunteering instrument adjustment of the operation of the supplier to the social of the Procurement of Goods and Services Procedure. concerning environmental protection (ISO:14001, responsibility principles. The Real Estate Management The same document provides for the introduction of ISO:50001, EN:16001); and Procurement Department and the organisational a questionnaire on the basic information of the com• protection of the environment is among the responunit in charge of the given procurement are obliged pany, which also contains questions related to socially sibilities of members of the top management of the to adjust the criteria for the evaluation of bids before responsible operation. Thus, the Bank gains insight into company; inviting bidders to submit bids and evaluate them using the existing practice of the potential suppliers, but also • employees are informed about the Environmental the qualitative and quantitative analysis methods. raises awareness of this topic. Protection Policy; • a procedure is in place with a term for responding to Clear and objective criteria, i.e. principles of cooperaThe questionnaire encompasses the following topics: complaints in relation to the environmental protection; tion have been defined in the Code of Ethics, which the • innovation in production and products/services suppliers become familiar with during the process of Corporate Governance directed to reducing impacts on the environment; registration in the supplier register. Relations with sup• transparent procedures for the election and operation • gas emission measurements; pliers are founded on principles of equal opportunities, of the Board of Directors; • the rational use of energy and the implementation of transparency, fairness and integrity, as well as on the • equal and timely access for shareholders to relevant economy measures; principle of two-way communication. information on the operation of the company; • the rational use of water and the implementation of • equal and timely access for investors to relevant inforeconomy measures; Since 2015, according to the recommendations of mation on the operation of the company; • responsible waste management; the Parent Group, Banca Intesa Beograd has been • a Code of Ethics/Code of Conduct that all employees • tackling climatic changes; implementing the application systems SAP R/3 and are aware of; • application of the “green procurement” principle 40 41 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 The environment Total energy 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 13,136,308.00 3,129,296.00 2,419,176.00 12,409,809.00 12,419,176.00 consumption, kWh* Total water 87,074.00 86,380.00 85,977.00 84,654.00 85,977 *** consumption, m3** * Total energy consumption for 2012, 2013 and 2014 implies indirect energy. Data for 2015 related to the total energy consumption within the company. ** Data on the total energy and water consumption relate to all administrative buildings and the overall branch network in Serbia and is obtained by assessing the costs of utility services, electricity/water bills. *** Cause for the slight increase in consumption of both resources water and energy during 2016 are extensive construction works on the reconstruction and refurbishment of the new administrative building for the relocation of all organizational units into a common area. Environmental protection is one of the key objectives financing in the amount of 10 million dollars or higher of the Banca Intesa commitment to responsible operand provide criteria for their classification based on ation. Having identified the most important impacts in different risk levels, together with appropriate tools for Responsible resource management 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 this area, the Bank’s initiatives focus on the following managing such risks. Please read the Risk Management Total recycled paper waste (t) material aspects: Section on further information regarding the aforemenWith the aim of responsible resource management, 37 60 74 96.48 150 130 tioned procedures. Banca Intesa invests continuous efforts in reducing the • Responsible resource management consumption of key resources in all aspects of daily operTotal recycled 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 • Responsible financing In addition to guaranteeing full compliance with the ations in order to minimize the direct adverse impacts electronic and electrical legal provisions relating to the protection of the envion the environment. During 2016 the implementation waste (kg) 18,950 33,000 22,560 22,000 39,600 46,750 Managing direct and indirect impacts of the Bank, in ronment, the objective of Banca Intesa is to identify of an automatic mechanism for remote computer shutthis area, has been defined in the environmental innovative and effective solutions in this area, apply the down at the end of the day has been continued, which protection and energy efficiency improvement best standards for the environment and promote and brought savings of 29.54%, i.e. 217.773,04 kWh of Policy, which is based on the principles of reduction develop the concept of environmental responsibility, electricity. In addition to switching to sending electronic versions of waste, energy efficiency and thus improving the with continued commitment to the transfer of the of daily press-clipping reports in 2013, since 2012 the direct and indirect performances of the Bank in the international principles, and in particular the DeclaraInvolvement of employees focus has been on reducing the paper waste and ensurarea of ecology, as well as focusing attention on the tion of the United Nations environment Program (UNEP) ing that all internal documents that are adopted by the consequences which the Bank’s decisions may have on and the United Nations Global Compact, into concrete An important part of coordinated efforts to protect Executive Board and Board of Directors are approved the environment and the society in general. This policy deeds. Banca Intesa is also open to dialogue and disthe environment are the internal initiatives as well, to electronically, without the need to print and physically is available to all employees, on the Internet portal. cussion with stakeholders for whom the environmental raise awareness and involvement of employees. The sign the documents. Furthermore, in the organisation protection is a priority topic. Bank is conducting an internal campaign to reduce process for all events, the Bank sends invitations only in the consumption of electricity and water in messaelectronic form, for the internal training of all employees When talking about responsible landing process, the An hour for our planet ges intended for employees on each floor of the and for external events. In 2015, the Bank continued Bank has confirmed its dedication to integrating social For five years in a row now, Banca Intesa takes part in administration building. In front of the administrative the Printing Consolidation Project, which included the and environmental criteria into its business decisions the action “An Hour for Our Planet”, which is held building in Belgrade, as well as branch offices of the active promotion of both-side printing, as well as whitein order to contribute to reducing the adverse impacts once a year and is the largest global volunteering camBank at this location, parking ramps for bicycles have and-black printing in all business processes. on the environment, which was further reaffirmed by paign for the preservation of nature and the environbeen installed, in order to motivate employees and the adoption and implementation of the the Social ment. The World Wide Fund for Nature, which is the customers to make more use of this sustainable mode High standards in the vehicle pool of the Bank are mainand Environmental Risk Management Procedure organiser of this campaign, invites all individuals and of transport. Also, a number of voluntary actions tained with the purpose of mitigating the impacts on and Rulebook and the Implementation of the companies to turn off the lights at the same time on the involving employees of the Bank are aimed at environthe environment through transportation. The pool of Equator Principles in Project Financing Procedure. same day for an hour and thus send a strong message mental protection. vehicles of the Bank only consists of new generations of that together we can help mitigate climate change and vehicle that use Euro Premium BMB 95 and Euro Diesel The Social and Environmental Risk Management the consequences of the excessive consumption of Waste generation is also one of the significant impacts fuel, which is adapted to the Euro 5 standards of EuroProcedure regulates the credit process when approving natural resources. As in previous years, in 2016 as well, of the Bank’s operations on the environment. In addition pean quality. The planned procurement of a new pool loans to corporates and entrepreneurs to which the Banca Intesa joined this action by turning off its neon to efforts to reduce the generation of waste by applying of vehicles, in the period to follow, shall additionally credit exposure of the Bank is at a level of one million signs on its branch offices and decorative lighting, on a responsible approach, in cooperation with authorized improve this segment. Euros or higher, including the requested new product, its business premises. Apart from that, throughout the subcontractors, optimal methods of its disposal are in the case of credit products from a credit line facility internal portal and social network Facebook , both the applied. The Bank’s branches are separating municipal, Responsible financing or other funds approved to the Bank by international employees and the wider public have been invited to metal, plastic and paper waste. development banks and when approving long-term join and support the campaign. Relying on two strategic documents: the Social and Total waste generated (t) 2014 2015 2016 credit products funded from other sources. Environmental Risk Management Procedure and Hazardous waste 17,04 39,6 48,83 the Implementation of the Equator Principles in Non-hazardous waste 268.007 410.08 385.627 The Implementation of the Equator Principles Total 285.047 414.04 434.457 Project Financing Procedure, Banca Intesa abides by in the Project Financing Procedure is also applied, the principles of responsible financing, throughout the * The following estimate was used for municipal waste: 0.7 kg/employee/day x 8/24h x 365 when preparing and implementing project financing days x 3.000 employees. entire financing process – starting with the social and and related advisory services, where the investment ** The increase in the quantity of hazardous waste in 2016 was consequence of the periodic write-off of the equipment/devices which have been handed over as hazardous waste (UPS environmental assessment of each individual customer, value of the project is at the level of 10 million dollars or batteries, cartridges). as well as during the financing relation, with full transhigher, both for new projects and for all project financparency. ing intended for the expansion or improvement of existing facilities where changes can create significant environmental and/ or social impacts or significantly change the natural environment. The Equator principles are a set of international standards applying to project 42 43 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 The Green for Growth Fund Southeast Support to the promotion of responsible investing Credit line of the KfW Development Europe Credit Line (GGF) for Retail, In 2016, Banca Intesa supported the realization Bank intended for Energy Efficiency of the investment conference “Corridors foreign Small Businesses and Agriculture investments and development”, held with the aim and Environmental Protection Loans for households, customers in the segment of of practical improvements in the area of energy, ​​ civil for the Public Sector small businesses and agriculture are invested from the engineering, transport and railway infrastructure, GGF credit line. telecommunication technologies, energy efficiency, The Bank has signed a Loan Agreement with the renewable energy and environmental protection. Development Bank of Germany, which provides EUR 10 In the segment of private individuals, these loans are Also, wishing to contribute to the development of million for financing customers in the public sector, for intended for all individuals and serve for financing sustainable environmental solutions applied in the projects involving the improvement of energy efficiency works and the procurement of equipment that will civil engineering industry with an increase in energy and environmental protection. The loans are granted improve the energy efficiency of buildings, whereby efficiency, the Bank supported the realization of the for a period of up to 9 years with a grace period of minimum savings of 20% should be realised. An event “Green Building Expo and Conference 2016”, 3 years and a fixed interest rate. The specificity of this energy efficient device is one that has a high degree of which promotes sustainable technologies, services and credit line is that it enables a potential grant from the efficiency, i.e. small losses during the transformation of products that are applicable in the civil engineering EU amounting to 20% of the credit amount if the proone form of energy into another. The funds can be used sector, primarily construction of “green buildings”, ject demonstrates energy savings, i.e. improvement of for the replacement of a heating system, the installathereby contributing to the improvement of the quality the conditions for environmental protection. More than tion of thermal solar systems for hot sanitary water, of life and creating opportunities for growth. EUR 7.3 million from this credit line have been invested the replacement of conventional heating systems with by now, and EUR 926,000 was granted to customers. a heat pump, as well as the installation of a networked Each agreement that Banca Intesa enters into with photovoltaic system. The loans are also granted for the its customers within the Corporate Banking Products EBRD Credit Line for Financing Energy insulation of external walls and roofs, the replacement Department contains, among other things, an article that Efficiency for the Public and Private Sector of outside doors and windows, the installation of new addresses environmental protection and obliges the loan radiators in combination with thermostatic valves on user, during the validity of the loan, to act with adequate Banca Intesa and the European Bank for Reconstruction radiators and the replacement of uncontrolled pumps diligence and care concerning the environment, to ensure and Development (EBRD) have signed an Agreement on for central heating with new electrically controlled the rational use of natural resources, to implement regthe use of a credit line for energy efficiency amounting pumps, for the purchase of household appliances, of ulations on environmental protection, and to plan and to EUR 10 million, whose users may be private enterA+ energy class (refrigerators and fridges, dish washers undertake measures and usual activities in order to preprises regardless of their size, as well as local governand washing machines) and of A energy class (electric vent environmental degradation, in line with the Law on ments and public utility companies. stoves and ovens, air-conditioning devices). A total of Environmental Protection, as well as the treaties, permits, 147 loans for energy efficiency were granted in 2016, technical and other standards and norms in the area of Funds from the credit line are intended for financing amounting to EUR 425,508 i.e. 71.4% of totally realenvironmental protection. If the loan user does not meet investments into fixed assets that lead to energy savings ised consumer loans during the year. the above contractual obligations, the Bank is entitled, of at least 20%, with a maximum repayment term of 5 by delivering a notice to the loan user, to declare the years and a maximum credit amount of EUR 2 million whole amount of the loan or a portion of the loan prinfor private companies and EUR 2.5 million for customcipal as due, including accrued interest and other claims ers in the public sector. A specificity of this credit line is calculated in line with the agreement, and to request grants amounting to 5-15% of the loan amount, which immediate payment or payment at first call by the Bank the end user receives after the implementation of the if the Credit Management Department has determined investment. that there is increased social and environmental risk. More than EUR 9,5 million has been invested by now Financing the improvement of energy efficiency and the from this credit line. In 2016, EUR 1,8 million was use of renewable energy sources is a significant part of the granted to the sector of small and medium enterprises. total crediting of Banca Intesa, which is supported by the fact that the Bank has, independently, as well as in coopAgreement with the Guarantee Fund eration with international financial institutions, granted of AP Vojvodina for Micro, Small and the small and medium enterprises, as well as the public sector, with more than 25 million of Euros of loans, for Medium-Sized Enterprises and Farmers the subject purposes. In the second half of 2016, a set of by-laws has been adopted in Serbia, providing better conA new agreement with the Guarantee Fund of AP ditions for investments to be made into renewable energy Vojvodina for registered farmers, entrepreneurs and micro, resources, as well as better profitability of the local prosmall and medium-sized enterprises makes available longjects. Better conditions for the development and financing term loans for the improvement of energy efficiency and of these projects enable the Bank to define a strategy for the use of renewable energy sources. The Guarantee stronger financing, thus providing additional support to Fund of AP Vojvodina dates back from 2006 and includes the protection of environment. In 2016, the Bank had, in a set of loan arrangements for the financing of registered its offer, loans for energy efficiency in households, as well farms, as well as businesses of female entrepreneurs in as energy efficiency and environmental protection in small the territory of Vojvodina, withih which the Bank has, and medium enterprises, public and agricultural sector. during 2016, granted around 96,000 EUR of loans. 44 45 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 GRI index General data Page Strategy and analysis G4 -1 Foreword by president of the executive board 6 G4 -2 Strategic approach, key impacts, risks and opportunities in the context of sustainability 9, 10, 16-18 Company profile G4-3 Name of the company 9 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 9 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 9 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 9 G4-7 Legal form and nature of ownership 10 G4-8 Markets served 9 G4-9 Scale of the organization 9,21-22 G4-10 Workforce 31,32 G4 -11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 34 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 40 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership, or supply chain 10 Commitment to external initiatives G4-14 Risk management in the context of united nation’s precautionary principle 16,17 G4-15 Externally developed initiatives which organization endorses 11 G4-16 Membership in associations 11 Identified material aspects and boundaries 51 G4-17 List of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statement or equivalent documents 10, 51 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries 7, 12, 13, 51 3. GRI index and indicators G4-19 List of all identified material aspects 13 G4-20 Internal aspect boundaries 13 G4-21 External aspect boundaries 13 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatement / G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries / Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders engaged by the organization 12 G4-25 Process for identification and selection of stakeholders 13 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 12-13 G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement 13 Report parameters G4-28 Reporting period 51 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 51 G4-30 Reporting cycle 51 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 51 G4-32 GRI index 47-49 G4-33 Report verification / Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 14 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 15 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body 14 G4-39 Function of the chair of the highest governance body within the organization management 14 G4-40 Appointment procedure for Board members 14 G4-41 Existing procedures for prevention of conflict of interest 15 The role of the Board and Senior executives in the development, adoption and G4-42 15 revision of mission, strategy, policies and objectives related to sustainability G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 14, 15 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 14, 15 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 10, 11, 15 G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior 15 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior 15 GRI and UNGC 50 46 47 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 GRI categories and indicators 2012. 2013. 2014. 2015. 2016. Page Gri categories and indicators 2012. 2013. 2014. 2015. 2016. Page GRI sustainability reporting guidelines ( G4)* Aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices – DMA 40 G4-LA 14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices Category: economydisclosure on management approach 21, 22 18. criteria* n/a n/a n/a ✓ ✓ 40, 41 *new indicator introduced in GRI G4 Aspect: economic performance – DMA 21, 22 Aspect: human rights grievance mechanisms – DMA 34 1. G4 –EC 1 direct economic value generated and distributed ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 23 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved 19. through formal grievance mechanisms* n/a n/a n/a ✓ ✓ 34 Aspect: indirect economic impacts – DMA 21 *new indicator introduced in GRI G4 G4EC 7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Sub-category: human rights disclosure on management approach 15, 36, 40 2. supported ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 21 Aspect: supplier human rights assessment – DMA 40 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 42 G4HR 10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights Aspect: energy – DMA 42, 43 20. criteria* n/a n/a n/a ✓ ✓ 40, 41 * new indicator introduced in GRI G4 G4 EN 3 Energy consumption within the organization * 3. *for 2012., 2013. and 2014. Reported according to the GRI G3.1. EN 4: Indirect    ✓ ✓ 43 Aspect: supplier human rights assessment – DMA 34 energy consumption by primary source G4HR 12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts field, addressed, and G4EN 6 Reduction of energy consumption* 21. resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 34 4. *for 2012., 2013. and 2014. reported according to the GRI G3.1 EN 5: energy ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 42 saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Sub-category: society – disclosure on management approach 36 Aspect: water – DMA 42 Aspect: local communities – DMA 36 5. G4 -EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 43 22. FS 13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type ❌ ❌ ✓ ✓ ✓ 25, 26 Aspect: effluence and waste – DMA 43 23. FS 14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people ❌ ❌ ✓ ✓ ✓ 26, 27 6. G4EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method in t ❌ ❌ ✓ ✓ ✓ 43 Aspect: anti-corruption – DMA 17 Aspect: products and services access to management – DMA 43, 44 G4SO 3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risk related to 24. corruption ❌ ❌ ❌   18 G4EN 27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and 7. services ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 44 G4SO 4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and company 25. procedures ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 18 Supplier Environmental Assessment – DMA 40 26. G4-SO 5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 18 G4EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Environmental 8. criteria* n/a n/a n/a ✓ ✓ 40, 41 G4-SO 6 Total value of pecuniary and non-pecuniary contributions to political *new indicator introduced in GRI G4 27. parties, politicians and related institutions ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 18 Category: social – disclosure on management approach 24, 31, 40, 42 Aspect: supplier assessment for impacts on society – DMA 40 Sub-category: labor practices and decent 31 G4SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts work – disclosure on Management approach 28. on society* n/a n/a n/a ✓ ✓ 40, 41 Aspect: employment – DMA 31 * new indicator introduced in GRI G4 G4LA 1 total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by Sub-category: product responsibility disclosure on management approach 24 9. age group, gender and region ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 32 Aspect: product and service labeling – dma (including former indicator 27, 28, 30 10. G4-LA 2 benefits provided to full-time employees ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 34 FS16 initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary) G4PR 3 Type of product and service information requires by the organization’s 11. G4LA 3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 33 29. procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 30 significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4PR 4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Aspect: occupational health and safety – DMA ❌ ❌ ❌ ❌ 33 30. voluntary codes of conduct related to product and service data and labelling, by ❌ ❌ ❌ ❌ ✓ 30 G4-LA 6 RATE OF INJURIES, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS AND LEAVE OF type of outcome 12. 33 G4PR 5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys ABSENCE AND NUMBER OF WORK RELATED DEATH CASES BY REGION 31. measuring customer satisfaction ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 28, 29, 30 13. G4LA 8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Trade unions ❌ ❌ ❌ ✓ 33 Aspect: Customer Privacy – DMA 30 Aspect: training and education – DMA 33, 34 G4PR 8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 32. privacy and losses of customer data ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 30 G4 -LA 9 Total number of hours of training per employee 14. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 34 Financial services sector supplements according to GRI G4 G4LA 10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 15. continued employability of employees and assist them in successful managing ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 33, 34 Aspect: product portfolio – DMA (former fs 1 and fs 2) 16, 17 career endings G4LA 11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career FS 7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social 16. development reviews ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 33 33. ❌ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 26, 27 benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Aspect: diversity and equal opportunity – DMA 31 FS 8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver as specific 34. environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose ❌ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 44, 45 G4LA 12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per The level of meeting the indicators in accordance with the GRI methodology: 17. employee category according to gender, age group,minority group membership, ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 31, 32 and other indicators of diversity ✓ Fully met  Partly met ❌ Not met Report has been prepared in accordance with the Core option of the GRI G4 Guidelines (core). Additionally, some requirements for comprehensive options have also been met: G4-2, G4-35, G4-38 to G4-42, G4-51, G4-52, G4-57, G4-58 48 49 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 Cross reference table Relelvant GRI G4 indicators Report parameters Other individual organizational units of the Bank particUnited nations global compact principles (ungc) ipated in the collection and processing of information Human rights The Sustainability Reporting cycle is an annual one. Data via the internal network of the CSR ambassadors. The presented in the report relate to the activities of Banca majority of data was collected directly, and the assessPrinciple 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and G4 HR 12 Intesa ad Beograd for the year 2016. Wherever possiment, measurement methods and data sources were ble, comparative data for previous years (2015, 2014, specifically mentioned where necessary. The credibility Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4 HR 10 2013 and 2012) were provided as well. Thus, the GRI of the information presented in the report provided principles were observed for the quality of the report: a consistent adherence to GRI principles for quality Labour timeliness and comparability. Compared to the previous reports: balance, accuracy, clarity and reliability. year there were no significant changes regarding the Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, G4 11 basic parameters of the report, and the change in methThe contact person in charge of the Sustainability odology, i.e. the transition from the GRI G3.1 to GRI G4 Report for 2016: Branislav Jovanović, the CSR Manager Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, G4 -HR 10* version of the Guideline on sustainability, was carried branislav.jovanovic@bancaintesa.rs out in 2015. Due to the comprehensive convergence to Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour and G4 -HR 10* the organizational model of the Parent Bank, the Bank’s The previous sustainability reports of Banca Intesa (for G4 10 Human Resources and Organization Department is in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015) are available G4 – LA 1 charge of the preparation of this report, within which, on a special page of the Bank’s official website. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. G4 – LA 3 since December 2016 is the CSR function positioned. G4 – LA 9 G4 – LA 11 G4 – LA 12 Environment G4 – EN 3 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, G4 – EN 8 G4 EN 27 G4 – EN 3 G4 – EN 6 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility G4 – EN 8 G4 EN 23 G4 EN27 G4 EN32 G4 EN 6 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. G4 – EN 27 Anti-corruption G4 56 G4 57 G4 58 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4 SO 3 G4 – SO 4 G4 – SO 5 G4 – SO 6 *In accordance with the GRI principle of materiality based on which priority topics present in the report are defined, the corresponding indicators are not covered by this report, taking into account their relevance to the banking sector. The Bank, as an active member, supports the promotion of all 10 Global Compact principles in its partners, suppliers, customers and in the general business and social community. 50 51 Banca Intesa Beograd Sustainability Report 2016 GALLERIE D’ITALIA. THREE MUSEUM CENTRES: A CULTURAL NETWORK FOR THE COUNTRY. Through the Gallerie d’Italia project, Intesa Sanpaolo intends to share its artistic and architectural heritage with the public at large: 1,000 works of art displayed in historic palazzi in three cities, forging the links in a museum network that is unique of its kind. In an architectural complex of great value, the Gallerie di Piazza Scala in Milan host a selection of two hundred nineteenth-century works of the Lombard school, along with a display itinerary dedicated to Italian art of the twentieth century. The Gallerie di Palazzo Leoni Montanari in Vicenza display the most important collection of Russian icons in the West, examples of eighteenth-century Veneto art and a collection of ceramics from Attica and Magna Graecia. In Naples, the Gallerie di Palazzo Zevallos Stigliano present the Martyrdom of Saint Ursula, one of Caravaggio’s last masterpieces, along with works of southern Italian art ranging from the seventeenth to the early twentieth century. Cover photo: HENDRIK FRANS VAN LINT (Antwerp, 1684 Rome, 1763) Church of Santa Maria della Salute with Punta della Dogana, ca. 1750 Oil on canvas, 46.5 x 71.5 cm Intesa Sanpaolo Collection Gallerie d’Italia Palazzo Leoni Montanari, Vicenza Van Lint’s view of the Church of Santa Maria della Salute with Punta della Dogana belongs to the Intesa Sanpaolo’s 18th century Venetian art collection, which is part of the permanent exhibition at Gallerie d’Italia Palazzo Leoni Montanari, the Bank’s museum venue in Vicenza. The collection offers a review of all the pictorial genres particularly landscape painting that won Venice and its school a central role on the international artistic scene in the 18th century. Views of many Italian locations, including Venice, painted by Gaspar van Wittel (late 1600s) were crucial for the success met by this genre in the 1700s. Among his main followers, we cannot fail to mention Hendrik Frans van Lint, a famous Flemish painter who was much sought after for the extreme refinement of his works. 53
