– world-class solutions in sustainable energy Annual Report 2016 NIBE creates world-class solutions in sustainable energy Contents The NIBE Group NIBE in brief 2 2016 in brief 3 Focus on three core businesses 4 Chief Executive’s report 6 NIBE adds value 8 NIBE’s value chain 12 Business environment trends 14 Management philosophy 16 Strategies 18 Financial targets 20 Sustainability targets 22 Our impact on the environment 23 Stakeholders and materiality analysis 24 Our employees 26 Responsible purchasing and good business ethics 27 NIBE is a global Group that contributes to a smaller carbon footprint and better utilisaOur history 28 tion of energy. In our three Business Areas – Climate Solutions, Element and Stoves – we The NIBE share 30 develop, manufacture and market a wide range of eco-friendly, energy-efficient solutions for indoor climate comfort in all types of property, plus components and solutions for NIBE Climate Solutions 34 intelligent heating and control in industry and infrastructure. NIBE Element 42 NIBE Stoves 48 From its beginnings in the Småland city of Markaryd more than 60 years ago, NIBE has Financial information grown into an international company with 11,900 (10,500) employees and a market presence on five continents. From the very start, the company was driven by a strong culture Administration report 54 Five-year review 56 of entrepreneurship and a passion for responsible business operation. Its success factors Consolidated income statement 58 are long-term investments in sustainable product development and the correct strategic Business Areas 60 acquisitions. Combined, these factors brought about strong, targeted growth which genConsolidated balance sheet 62 erated sales of just over SEK 15 (13) billion in 2016. Consolidated statement of cash flows 64 Ratios 65 NIBE has been listed under the name NIBE Industrier AB on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Parent 68 Exchange, Large Cap list, since 1997, with a secondary listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange Risk management 70 Notes 72 since 2011. Auditor’s report 97 Corporate governance report 100 Audit memorandum 103 Board of Directors, senior executives and auditor Companies in the NIBE Group 104 106 Sales, geographical distribution SEK 15,348 million in sales, geographical distribution Group sales by geographical region Calendar 3% 11 May 2017 28% Europe (excl the Nordics) Interim Report 1, January – March 2017 38% Nordic countries Annual General Meeting North America 18 August 2017 31% Other markets Interim Report 2, January – June 2017 16 November 2017 Interim Report 3, January – September 2017 Group operations (four continents) Group sales (five continents) 2016 in brief Acquisitions in all three Business Areas boost sales In addition to the acquisitions, 2016 was characterised by continued solid organic More than ten acquisitions in 2016 kept the rate of acquisition high, growth with good profitability and a sucprimarily in North America but also in Europe. Climate Control Group in cessful preferential rights issue, together ensuring good future growth. the US was acquired, the biggest single acquisition in our history to date. Acquisitions added total annual sales of just over SEK 4 billion to the Group, of which just under SEK 1.7 billion impacted 2016 sales. NIBE Climate Solutions SEK 15,348 million Climate Control Group in the US, which sells climate control products and sysin sales (SEK 13,243 million) tems, primarily for commercial properties, has sales of approximately SEK 2,300 million. Enertech Group in the UK (acquisition approved by the Swedish Competition Authority on 27 January 2017), which has several well-known brands such as 15.9% the Swedish heat pump manufacturer CTC, has sales of just over SEK 800 mil(20.0%) growth, of which 3.3% (10.5%) was lion. organic Air-Site in Sweden (50% of shares) , which has top-level expertise in ventilation, has sales of SEK 26 million. The CGC Group of Companies in Canada (50% of shares in February 2017), 12.9% which manufactures heat pumps for commercial properties, has sales of apoperating margin (12.8%) proximately SEK 120 million. NIBE Element Heatron in the US, which sells foil elements, thick film elements and special SEK 1,871 million elements for high-tech industries, has sales of approximately SEK 250 million. in profit after net financial items (SEK 1,614 Omni Control Technology in the US, which sells advanced control equipment, million) has sales of SEK 100 million. Hotwatt in the US, which has a wide range of special elements for industry, has sales of approximately SEK 80 million. SEK 1,376 million ATE Electronics in Italy, which supplements our resistor operations, has sales in profit after tax (SEK 1.237 million) of SEK 30 million. NIBE Stoves Fireplace Products International in Canada, FPI (65% of shares), which manu46.6% factures both wood and gas stoves, has sales of approximately SEK 600 million. equity/assets ratio (39.9%) Stovax Heating Group in the UK (remaining 40% of shares). SEK 2.93 in earnings per share before and after dilution, based on average number of shares Financial ratios 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 outstanding during the year (SEK 2.67) Net sales SEK m 15,348 13,243 11,033 9,834 9,192 Growth % 15.9 20.0 12.2 7.0 12.9 Operating profit SEK m 1,980 1,700 1,385 1,179 1,039 SEK 0.88/share Profit after net financial items SEK m 1,871 1,614 1,292 1,117 1,005 in dividend proposed by the Board of Operating margin % 12.9 12.8 12.6 12.0 11.3 Directors (SEK 0.80/share recalculated due Return on equity % 14.9 18.0 16.6 16.7 15.9 to split and new issue) Equity/assets ratio % 46.6 39.9 36.2 43.0 41.9 Proportion of risk-bearing % 50.7 44.5 40.8 47.2 46.5 capital SEK 3,024 million Please refer to page 65 for definitions. new share issue before issue expenses Focus on three core businesses and proactive initiatives for the future The wide range of the Group’s products, marketed under many brand names, forms the foundation of international expansion. We have created a good platform for further expansion with profitability, and the target to achieve SEK 20 billion in sales by 2020 is already in sight. NIBE Climate Solutions Business Areas’ shares of sales in 2016 Energy-efficient products for indoor climate comfort and Respektive affärsområdes andel av omsättningen hot water. 11% NIBE Climate Solutions offers a wide range of eco-friendly, intelligent, energy-efficient indoor climate comfort solutions, inNIBE Climate Solutions cluding heating, cooling, heat recovery and hot water for homes, 27% 62% NIBE Element apartment blocks and other large properties. NIBE Stoves Properties’ climate impact can be dramatically reduced with our products, with no reduction in comfort. Intelligent indoor climate comfort solutions Major development resources are employed in the heat pumps product segment in terms of technology, performance, quality Business Areas’ shares of operating profit in 2016 Respektive affärsområdes resultatandel and design. The heat pumps of today blend in well with their environment and are both energy-efficient and eco-friendly. Heat pumps can also be controlled digitally, which makes it even easi11% 9% er to control heat, ventilation and cold locally or remotely. 22% NIBE Climate Solutions 22% 68%67% NIBE Element 69% NIBE Stoves Ratios 2016 2015 Net sales SEK 9,588 m SEK 8,031 m Growth 19.4% 23.4% Operating profit SEK 1,396 m SEK 1,209 m Operating margin 14.6% 15.1% Average number of employees 4,075 3,417 Find out more on page 34 4 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Element NIBE Stoves An industrial partner with customised components and Energy-efficient stoves for various heating needs and deintelligent solutions for heating and control with the focus sign requirements. on sustainability. NIBE Stoves’ product range comprises stoves of various sizes and The NIBE Element product range comprises components and designs to suit both houses and commercial properties. They solutions for intelligent heating and control designed for both inare developed to achieve optimum environmental performance dustrial and consumer products. with high combustion efficiency and low particulate emissions. A common feature of most products is that they enhance enerIncreasing the exchange of old stoves for new ones with modgy efficiency, optimise energy consumption and help reduce our ern technology quickly has a positive effect on the environment. carbon footprint. Energy efficiency enhancement always on the Heating comfort with focus on Ecodesign agenda Our stoves have been developed into energy-efficient heat In global ambitions for sustainable development, there is a growsources for various energy types and already meet the future ing need to enhance energy efficiency in all areas. Through both requirements for eco-friendliness and efficiency in the Ecodeour own product development and acquisitions of companies sign Directive. As a stove is largely an interior design feature, we with innovative products, we are now able to offer a wide range offer a wide range of models to suit all tastes and requirements. of energy-efficient element products and intelligent system solutions based on several different technologies. Ratios 2016 2015 Ratios 2016 2015 Net sales SEK 4,252 m SEK 3,758 m Net sales SEK 1,766 m SEK 1,652 m Growth 13.1% 17.7% Growth 6.9% 11.4% Operating profit SEK 473 m SEK 342 m Operating profit SEK 223 m SEK 206 m Operating margin 11.1% 9.1% Operating margin 12.7% 12.5% Average number of employees 6,741 6,197 Average number of employees 1,045 922 Find out more on page 42 Find out more on page 48 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 5 Chief Executive’s report A strong 2016 – sales target of SEK 20 billion should be achievable before 2020 A year of intensive acquisition The acquisition of Enertech, which was Continued solid organic growth, an intense formally approved by the Swedish Compeperiod of acquisitions and a successful preftition Authority on 27 January 2017, is an erential rights issue characterised 2016, toimportant step towards further internationgether ensuring good future growth. alisation of Swedish technology in sustainFully in line with our corporate philosoable climate control solutions. phy, we continued to invest aggressively in The Business Area’s underlying operatproduct development and marketing to ening margin was further strengthened somesure future organic growth. In parallel with what during the year, while Air-Site and CCG this, we have continued our efforts to nurare quite a bit below this level for now. Even ture our margins. though both are already exhibiting douGroup sales growth for 2016 was 15.9% ble-digit operating margin figures, intensive (20.0%), including organic growth of 3.3% work is under way to further improve the (10.5%). For the year as a whole, the currenoperating margin in these two entities. cy effect was negligible. Improvements will also be initiated in The acquired entities injected combined the newly acquired Enertech Group with annual sales of just over SEK 4 billion into the objective of having the companies in the Group, of which just under SEK 1.7 bilthe group achieve an acceptable level of lion impacted 2016 sales. Including all the profitability for the Business Area within acquired companies and calculated on a 18–24 months. rolling 12-month basis, consolidated sales For the NIBE Element Business Area the are now at just over SEK 17 billion, meaning biggest news is of course that we have now that the sales target of SEK 20 billion should definitely reached an operating margin that be achievable before 2020. exceeds 10% by a good margin. Behind this are long-term, passionate and methodical Successful new share issue efforts to develop our product range into inTo not limit continued opportunities for telligent system solutions with high-quality, expansion through acquisitions, a preferensustainable profiles. A somewhat large onetial rights issue amounting to just over SEK off project order has also boosted earnings. Gerteric Lindquist, Managing Director & CEO 3 billion was approved and implemented Acquisition activities have been intense in October. We take the fact that the issue in this Business Area as well. In the US, spewas oversubscribed by 50% as a sign that cial element companies Heatron, Evapoour shareholders and the market in general way, Omni and Hotwatt were consolidated would like to see continued profitable, acunder the Business Area and, in Europe, quisition-driven expansion. ATE Electronics, Braude and a small heating cable business were acquired. Good strength in all three Business To ensure continued good operating Areas margins, the focus will be on further deThree strategically important acquisitions velopment of the product range into intelwere made in the NIBE Climate Solutions ligent, high-tech system solutions and conBusiness Area. The partial acquisition of Airtinued streamlining of production. Site AB in Sweden is an important step toFor the NIBE Stoves Business Area, the wards being able to start delivering sustainpartial acquisition of Canadian company able end-to-end climate control solutions Fireplace Products International Limited for apartment buildings and commercial (FPI) is a milestone. One of North America properties, initially in Sweden. and Australia’s absolute market leaders in The acquisition of US-based Climate the stove industry is now a part of us, which Control Group (CCG) is our biggest acquisialso creates an interesting platform for the tion so far in terms of sales, and the group Business Area’s other companies in terms of already supplies sustainable end-to-end clifuture growth. mate control solutions to commercial propThe weakening of the British pound and erties. the unusually mild weather during practi6 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 “ The transformation from a small local company to a major international group would scarcely have been possible without our now self-evident guiding principles and clear, long-term ownership. cally all the months in which demand traGroup’s guiding principles were established in sustainable energy have probably never ditionally peaks has hampered sales. Dein 1990 (see pages 20-21). Parallel to these, been better. Awareness of the need to stop spite this, the operating margin improved we also defined our eight business princiresource wastage and the pollution of our slightly. ples (see page 16). planet is growing exponentially worldwide. To further strengthen our own sustainAware that the four financial targets If we, in our business environment, also ability profile, considerable resources are were ambitious and the business principles consistently maintain our clear financial being invested in developing products with equally demanding, a few years later we objectives and our eight business princieven greater efficiency and even lower parmade so bold as to formulate our no less ples, the biggest impediment to continued ticle emissions. These efforts are being carambitious vision for sustainability, i.e. that profitable expansion is probably our own ried out in close cooperation with universiNIBE must supply world-class solutions in mental attitude, i.e. our courage and our ties and colleges. sustainable energy. This was subsequently winning instinct to really tackle the task. Balanced level of investment also reflected in our undertaking to comAgainst this background, it is essential that ply with the Global Compact’s 10 principles anxiety and concern never take root. If we The level of investment in our existing busiand our active support for Agenda 2030 (see continue to apply all our efforts and enthunesses amounted to SEK 412 million, compages 17 and 25). siasm to working with a long-term, sustainpared with SEK 384 million in the previous On 16 June this year, NIBE Industrier celable approach, focusing on good profitabilyear, and the rate of depreciation was SEK ebrates its 20th anniversary as a listed comity, we will continue to be unbeatable. 542 million. pany. The transformation from a small local Investments are expected to increase Outlook for 2017 company to a major international group slightly in 2017 and be on the level of the • Our corporate philosophy and our strong would scarcely have been possible without depreciation according to plan. range of products, with their focus on susthese now self-evident guiding principles tainability and energy efficiency, are in Good earnings performance and clear, long-term ownership. tune with the times in which we are living. Operating profit improved by 16.5% comJust like most other companies, we have • We are well prepared to be proactive on pared with the previous year and the operof course had periods in which growth and acquisitions. ating margin rose from 12.8% to 12.9%. The earnings did not really meet either our own or certain external expectations but we • Our internal efforts to enhance efficiency, completed acquisitions had a considerable combined with our rigorous cost control positive impact on operating profit, while have carefully but resolutely corrected our measures, will guarantee persistently currency effects for the year were insignificourse, continuing to follow our guiding healthy margins. cant. principles, to continue our progress with • As with previous years, the effects of ecoBecause of the acquired companies’ the greatest possible vigour. nomic trends, currency concerns, volatile varying levels of profitability and seasonal Now that we expect that our target of energy prices and political turbulence in patterns, a full 12-month period is required SEK 20 billion in sales will probably be met some parts of the world are hard to prebefore a completely accurate operating slightly earlier than the target year of 2020 dict, but we remain cautiously positive profit can be recognised. Acquisition exset four years ago, it is particularly imporabout the year overall. penses amounted to SEK 60 million (SEK 10 tant that we do not allow ourselves to bemillion) during the year and costs were reccome complacent, because if we do our opMarkaryd, Sweden – March 2017 ognised for acquisition processes that were erations will inevitably stagnate. discontinued. Instead we must start to plan for the next Profit after net financial items improved partial target. As when previous partial tarby 15.9% compared with the previous year. gets were achieved, this means doubling The profit margin of 12.2% thus remained sales from SEK 20 billion to SEK 40 billion at last year’s level. with the same good profitability. The time frame available to us to douA long-term approach, sustainability Gerteric Lindquist ble our sales will once again preferably be Managing Director and CEO and profitability go hand in hand four years, and maximum six years, starting On 18 December 1989, NIBE-Verken AB in from the year in which we pass the 20 bilMarkaryd and Backer Elektro-Värme AB in lion mark. Sösdala were acquired by a few employees The markets in which our three Business and two external investors. Areas operate present no obstacle to this. The newly formed parent was called On the contrary. NIBE Industrier AB and the four finanThe conditions for our vision to supcial targets that continue to constitute the ply the market with world-class solutions NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 7 NIBE adds value – in the home Comfort, convenience and peace of mind NIBE wants to help reduce energy consumption for our customers and for society at large by developing world-class solutions in sustainable energy. Much of what we experience as comfort, convenience and peace of mind in our modern homes comes from equipment that uses energy to heat, cool, ventilate or otherwise achieve a comfortable indoor climate. NIBE is involved with most of these types of equipment, either as a manufacturer of a product or system solution or as a manufacturer of one or more components in a product. Good indoor climate comfort Making life simpler and more convenient A heat pump from NIBE is one of the most energy-efficient ways Constant access to hot water is an important part of our quality of to heat your home and causes lower carbon dioxide emissions life. NIBE offers households peace of mind with its reliable, enerthan traditional heating with fossil fuels. This both reduces costs gy-efficient water heaters. Washing machines and tumble dryers, and saves the environment for current and future generations. which make life easier for many of us, also need to be energy-effiCombined with waterborne underfloor heating, it also produces a cient. They contain several components made by NIBE. comfortable indoor climate. Cosy up to a stove The kitchen – the heart of the home A stove from NIBE makes a house cosy. It gently heats and becomes Our modern kitchens today contain many appliances that are used a natural place to gather on winter days and evenings. A stove frequently. Most of them, such as toasters, coffee makers, ovens and saves money and, as combustion is very efficient and wood is a dishwashers, incorporate components produced by NIBE, which renewable energy source, it helps save the planet too. helps them be as energy-efficient as possible when they are used. 8 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE adds value – in large properties We heat, cool and ventilate The bigger the building, the higher the investment in indoor climate comfort equipment and the more important it is to make the right choices in terms of reliability, cost and the climate. NIBE has the knowledge, experience and technical solutions to achieve the best concept for any type of property, whether it is an apartment block, an industrial building, a farm, a hotel, a church or a country house. Hotels Apartment blocks Heat, cooling and ventilation are one of the biggest cost items and In apartment blocks, each apartment may have shared or individuone of the biggest environmental aspects of large hotels. The entire al heating, but in both cases the building can have a shared control indoor climate comfort system can be automated and controlled and monitoring centre with NIBE concept solutions. These make remotely using NIBE’s online solutions. Heat pumps save energy it possible to optimise energy use in the property. Heat pumps even when idle, and the units have active cooling modules that produce heat, hot water and cooling. produce excellent air conditioning. Public buildings Renovation of old buildings Public buildings have traditionally been heated with oil, gas or coal. Old country houses and mansions present a challenge when it comes Many buildings are still heated in this way and they need to switch to reducing heating costs. Consequently, it makes financial sense to to cleaner, greener technology. NIBE offers climate control solutions invest in a modern heating system when they are renovated. NIBE can based on technology such as geothermal energy, which is good for offer know-how and the latest renewable energy technology, which the environment and saves costs. permits old properties to be climate-friendly without losing their charm and beauty. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 9 NIBE adds value – in industry We offer intelligent heating and control NIBE is a partner to many companies in a wide range of industries, developing and manufacturing components and solutions for intelligent heating and control that offer various solutions for a host of specific products. Comfort requirements of car owners Resistors have many areas of application The requirements for comfort in various types of vehicle are NIBE is a major manufacturer of resistors, which are an important constantly becoming stricter. This has generated a great need for balancing component in electronic systems and products. NIBE new applications based on element technology. One of the latest resistors are used for controlling and regulating the action of applications is heated windscreen wipers from NIBE. This will industrial robots, lifts and electric motors and a wealth of other probably be a standard feature of vehicles in the future. applications across a broad spectrum of industries. Equipment that saves lives Hybrid vehicles Developments are rapid in the medtech industry and new solutions New hybrid vehicle models are constantly being launched for both save lives. NIBE contributes by being at the cutting edge of product passengers and commercial use. NIBE plays an active part in the development based on foil elements for various applications such development of products for efficient energy utilisation, for exas operating tables, sterilisation equipment, DNA analysis and ample delivering elements for battery heaters and interior heaters respirators. using sources such as braking energy. 10 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE adds value – for a better climate We promote energy efficiency enhancement and sustainable development It is natural for NIBE, with its products, to play a key role in international ambitions to achieve sustainability. We see it as our responsibility to focus on creating a product portfolio that supports the transition to a fossil-free society with reduced energy consumption. We also reduce our own impact on the climate and the environment in all stages from production to suppliers. Heat pump modules Major investments in rail-based transport Heat pump technology has also begun to make its mark in indusThe use of private cars and heavy goods vehicles on roads presents try. By utilising the Group’s expertise in heat pump technology, a major challenge when it comes to reducing carbon dioxide emisNIBE can offer heat pump modules in industrial processes and sions. Consequently, several countries are currently implementing commercial products. For example, in professional kitchens and major projects to improve infrastructure, particularly that of raillaundries, heat pump modules are used both in machinery and to based transport. NIBE is contributing by supplying equipment both cool and dehumidify the air, producing a better working environfor vehicles and for heating rails and points, which are controlled ment and enhancing energy efficiency. and regulated automatically. Frequency control Solar cells Frequency-controlled compressors in heat pumps optimise energy With solar cells on the roof, property owners can produce electricity use and reduce strain on the electricity grids. NIBE’s production for their own use and any surplus is supplied to the grid. This is good of frequency converters meets very strict requirements for purity, for the climate and produces a significant gain, whichever form of accuracy and quality. heating is already used in the property. The most efficient solution is to combine solar cells with a heat pump system. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 11 NIBE’s added-value chain Business environment Megatrends, p. 14 Our management philosophy aims to deliver value for our stakeExternal factors, p. 15 holders. NIBE adds value based on the initiatives outlined above. Market, pp. 39, 47, 53 An understanding of the world around us and dialogue with our Customer needs, pp. 39, 47, 53 stakeholders helps us choose the right priorities throughout the value chain. The result is that we maximise the positive value for our stakeholders and minimise any negative impact. Inputs Financial • Working capital, including cash and bank balances SEK 5,503 m Product development of which new share issue SEK 3,024 m Aggressive product development with • Investments in fixed assets SEK 5,185 m the focus on innovation for sustainable of which acquisitions SEK 4,744 m development adds value for customers, society and the environment. Manufacturing • 44 production plants in 18 countries Intellectual capital • More than 70 brands Purchasing Human capital Responsible purchasing subject to criteria • 11,900 employees for quality, ethical business principles and • Contractors sustainability adds value for our suppliers, • Partners their employees and their subcontractors. Natural resources and inputs • 66,000 tonnes of metals and metal oxides • 10,000 tonnes of packaging materials • 4,000 tonnes of stone, enamel and cement • 283,000 m3 of water • 2 TWh of energy Production • 1.2 km2 of land area High productivity, efficient • 0.5 km2 of building area resource utilisation, minimum environmental impact and a good working environment add Relationships value in the form of optimum • Customers quality with minimum inputs. • 3,500 suppliers • 35,000 shareholders • Lenders • More than 50 local communities • Collaboration with public authorities • Partnerships with trade associations 12 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Vision Our vision is to create world-class solutions in sustainable energy. Operational control Mission Three core operations, pages 34, 42, 48 Our mission is to offer the market high-quality, innovative, energy-efManagement philosophy, page 16 Strategies for good ficient products and system solutions through our three Business ArFinancial targets, page 20 profitability, page 18 eas. This work builds on the NIBE Group’s wide-ranging capabilities in Sustainability targets, page 22 Risk management, page 70 product development, manufacturing and marketing. Corporate governance, page 100 Outcome Stakeholders Financial value Customers Sales SEK 15,348 m Suppliers Payments SEK 9,261 m Investments SEK 5,156 m Employees Salaries and social security contributions SEK 3,801 m Public sector Tax SEK 360 m Local community Sponsorship, donations SEK 2 m Shareholders Dividend SEK 369 m Lenders Interest SEK 111 m Products Sales • • Percentage of LCE-classified products: 51.5%** Heat pumps, renewable energy Honest marketing of sustainable • Solar products, renewable energy products and solutions lays the • Heat exchangers, energy recovery, energy optimisation foundations for customer satisfac• Components, energy efficiency enhancement tion, long-term relationships and stable earnings. Environmental impact • 17,000 tonnes of waste of which 15,000 tonnes were recycled and 1,200 tonnes went to external landfill • No fines for non-compliance with environmental legislation were reported Atmospheric emissions: Discharges into water: Products • 12,000 tonnes of CO2 from • 6 tonnes of metals production and buildings • 27 tonnes of oxygen in use • 12,000 tonnes of CO2 from absorbents own transportation • 13 tonnes of nutrients Our products add value • 7,000 tonnes of VOC* year after year in the form of • 236 tonnes of NOx* reduced energy costs, reduced • 19 tonnes of SOx* climate impact and better functionality. Human impact • 10 accidents per million hours worked that resulted in at least one day of sick leave • 3.8% sickness absence • Employee CPD, 190,000 hours • 2 complaints from neighbours about noise *VOC = Volatile Organic Compounds • No cases of discrimination reported *NOx = Nitrogen oxides • No whistleblower cases *SOx = Sulphur oxides • No fines for non-compliance with labour legislation were **FTSE LCE ™ (Financial Times Stock Exchange Low Carbon Economy) is a quantitative reported model that is specially designed to form the basis for investors in assessing companies’ performance in the transition to a low carbon economy. Companies must disclose the proportion of their sales that is from classified product groups, and comparisons are For full information, please see the GRI report at made over time for each sector. The index is still in the development stage. www.nibe.com NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 13 Increased international presence Like all international companies, NIBE is affected by global trends that we must constantly monitor and evaluate. We need to seize opportunities and be aware of the risks of constant change. In turn, this affects our strategic choices. We must adapt our strategy to enable us to continue to add value in the long term. NIBE operates in an industry that can accelerate the transition to lower energy consumption and a higher proportion of renewable energy. With our products and system solutions, we can contribute to a better, more climate-friendly world. This is the greatest challenge of our age. Megatrends The greatest population growth is expecturbanisation also boost demand for the transportation of goods and people. The ed in Africa and Asia. In the same period, Climate change – the greatest challenge increasing numbers of people are also extransport sector is regarded as one of the of our age pected to move to large cities, the populagreatest challenges as it is responsible for One of the biggest challenges involved in tion of which is expected to increase from a significant proportion of greenhouse gas achieving a global sustainable community 50% of the earth’s population today to 70%. emissions and energy consumption. is to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases Energy optimisation and a switch from Demand for infrastructure and clean fossil energy sources to renewable energy and slow down the rate of climate change. technology The agreement from the climate sumsources are needed for both buildings and As the population grows and is concenthe transport sector. Demand for technolomit in Paris in 2015 to limit global warmtrated in cities, the infrastructure becomes gy that supports the switch from fossil fuels ing so that it does not exceed 2 degrees is overloaded and the demand for resources, will grow and, as this technology becomes already under threat. To achieve this tarabove all energy, increases. At the same more available and the market grows, the get, greenhouse gas emissions must be retime, opportunities arise for sustainable prices will fall, contributing in turn to even duced by 70% by 2050 compared with the solutions as demand for energy-efficient, greater demand. level in 2010, an annual reduction of 6.5%. resource-efficient infrastructure, construcA great deal of research and developResearch indicates that even greater reduction and transport also increases. ment are currently being carried out in tions in greenhouse gases are required to All the buildings in the world currently energy optimisation and renewable enerstop climate change. As we know, the conaccount for around 40% of total energy use gy. We believe that we are at the cutting sequences of climate change in the form of and around one third of global emissions of edge of our industry. NIBE is already able natural disasters and extreme weather congreenhouse gases, most of which when the to offer applications and solutions for cliditions represent a threat to our living conbuildings are in use. As buildings are used mate-friendly energy efficiency enhanceditions, biodiversity and social stability. for many years, the energy-related product ment. We consider it both an interesting Population growth and growing cities choices made today are important because challenge and a necessity to gradually According to UN calculations, the populathey can affect the environment for several change our product portfolio to fully suption of the earth will have grown from 7.3 decades to come. port fossil-free technology. billion in 2015 to almost 10 billion by 2050. Globalisation, population growth and A view of Cape Town, the second largest city in South Africa, with a population of 3.7 million. The population is estimated to increase to 4.3 million by 2030. There were 512 cities worldwide with a population of over one million in 2016. There are expected to be 662 cities of this size by 2030. At the same time, the number of megacities, with populations of more than 10 million, is expected to increase from 31 to 41, and the number of cities with a population of between 5 and 10 million to increase from 45 to 63. Source: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2016). The World’s Cities in 2016 – Data Booklet (ST/ESA/ SER.A/392). 14 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 External factors that affect den changes in these instruments create a An international operator with the right volatile market with a risk of short-term debusiness focus our business cisions. We have a growing international presence Apart from major global trends, there are Financing in industrialised markets on five continents. several factors that directly affect our busiWe are also continuing to enhance our caAccess to capital and the cost of financing ness development. pacity to meet demand worldwide, while is affected by interest rates. We also see a increasing the diversification of operational clear trend among investors and lenders Demand for sustainable solutions risks. to increasingly assess companies from a One of the very strongest driving forces beIn our opinion, we have a strong posisustainability perspective, and this may hind our business is the growing demand tion and good opportunities to meet debe directly related to their willingness to for components, products and systems that mand and achieve our vision – to create finance projects. enhance energy efficiency. world-class solutions in sustainable energy. Competition We are making an active contribution to Economic trends the transition from fossil to renewable with NIBE’s markets can generally be described Economic trends affect willingness to inthe focus on energy efficiency enhanceas fragmented. Competition is primarily lovest in new products and solutions that ment and are developing our product portcal and regional. enhance energy efficiency. However, where folio in line with the direction the business As our business grows into the climate new systems must be installed, the willingenvironment needs to take. control industry, we encounter large new ness exists to invest in energy-saving and international players and must compete A healthy corporate culture thus cost-saving measures, even during pewith them accordingly. Our roots in Småland, Sweden, with a long riods of recession. tradition of high productivity, good quality Energy prices Our position and efficient cost control, mean that we The cost of fossil-based energy generation have a trust-based, decentralised organisaoften affects the choice of system for heatClear market size with room for growth tion that has great flexibility to successfully ing and indoor climate comfort. The low oil The total market size in our Business Areas meet the varied demands and conditions of and gas prices which continued to prevail in is significant and the total market value is the market. 2016 are an inhibiting factor for new investcurrently estimated to be nearly SEK 600 billion. The biggest market is that for doSolid experience of acquisitions ments in solutions using renewable energy, primarily in regions with a high level of gasmestic heating/cooling and ventilation, the We have implemented acquisitions for a based heating systems. NIBE Climate Solutions market, worth just long time and have a well-established acover SEK 500 billion, followed by the NIBE quisition process in terms of identification, Political stability Element market, worth just over SEK 50 bilimplementation and operations. As our Political stability creates regional predictabillion, and the NIBE Stoves market, worth just markets are globally fragmented with many ity. At the same time, we are affected by the over SEK 30 billion. operators, we still have good potential for geopolitical situation and growing nationNIBE has a strong market position in further acquisitions. alism and protectionism in many countries, the Nordic region in all three of the Group’s Our acquisition-driven growth takes which may entail restrictions to free trade. Business Areas. Despite an ambitious place within the framework of strong, National economic policy instruments growth target of sales of SEK 20 billion by healthy finances. for switching to lower energy use and in2020, we can see that there is significant creasing the proportion of renewable enerpotential for acquisition-driven growth on gy have a high impact on our markets. Suda global level. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 15 Management philosophy Our business principles Aggressive product development Focus on three core businesses Aggressive product development is cruA clear focus on three Business Areas creOur management philosophy is cial to good organic growth and estabates clarity both internally and externally. deeply rooted in eight basic ideas lishing a foothold in new markets. Our It also spreads risk and results in reasonthat constitute the foundation of all focus is on leading the way in energy-efable risk exposure. Another benefit is the our operations and create the condificient, environmentally-friendly prodconstant increase in knowhow in each tions for our continued success. ucts that help mitigate climate impact area, which gives us an analytical advanand promote sustainable development. tage that can be used for acquisitions. We need to be both analytical and visionary in our market assessments, and customer requirements must be quickly transformed into the best possible solution in any given market situation. Good profitability Quality in everything Committed employees Good profitability is and always has been We must be a secure, constructive partCommitment is created by clear, sincere our tradition and is the most fundamental ner on which customers can always rely. leadership that sets a good example. and important factor behind long-term NIBE must be a pioneer in quality issues Shared values, simple organisational success and sustained growth. Good profand have certified management systems forms and development opportunities itability ensures freedom of action and for quality and the environment at its for all create a culture characterised by independence, generates well-being and production plants. NIBE must be availainitiative, humility and common sense in security for current employees and makes ble to help its customers when needed which everyone can thrive. us an attractive employer when we recruit and deal with them in a professional new employees. manner so that they can choose the right solutions that will help reduce both their costs and their environmental impact. Our successes must also benefit the customer in the form of value-for-money products. High productivity Market-oriented expansion A long-term approach High productivity is essential to good comContinuous growth is essential to our A long-term approach means that repetitiveness, and our productivity philosodevelopment. A combination of good sponsibility, resilience and continuity phy is based on the belief that everything organic growth and prudent acquisitions will always triumph in the long run. can always be improved and that, if you is the best possible way to constantly Changes are only implemented after can’t measure it, you can’t improve it. breathe new life into the organisation. careful consideration and testing, and Performance-based salary systems based Expansion into new markets must be our ambition to create long-term reon accurate methods time measurements carefully considered and consistently lationships, internally as well as with (MTM) encourage optimisation of working implemented. customers and suppliers, provides the time and promote high productivity and platform for truly sustainable business fair salaries. MTM data also provides a activities. Continuity of ownership guarsound basis for efficient production planantees independence and enables the ning, accurate costings and calculations, Company to focus fully on running and reliable investment data and opportudeveloping the business. nities to follow up on business activities correctly. 16 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Our values How we work Our values are an important part of Sound business ethics Our management philosophy and our our management philosophy and our Our firmly rooted approach is that we are values create a solid platform for our corporate culture and emphasise that honest and straightforward. We must be sustainable development work. honest in our business dealings, comply we want to act as a responsible comwith applicable legislation and have zero pany in relation to the people near us, Although our top priority is profitability, tolerance to bribery and corruption. We our external stakeholders and the enwhich is essential to our ability to opermust also communicate honestly. ate, we will never compromise on our vironment. Our values are firmly rootvalues to achieve it. Our attitude is that ed in our long and proud tradition of long-term profitability can only be based responsible entrepreneurship. on respect for legislation, honesty, good relations and transparency. How we work ‘How we work’ provides guidance in our day-to-day work and describes how we can best convert our resources into earnings. It is based on five basic principles concerning: Respect for human rights Transparency • Workflows Our most fundamental undertaking is to To build trust and create relationships • Collaboration respect the people who are affected by with our stakeholders, we must be open • Efficiency and honest in our communication and • Good habits our operations and their human rights. • Standardisation follow rules and standards. We work consistently to communicate Good working conditions our core values to all employees in the The working environment in our operaResponsible purchasing Group. tions must maintain a high standard and We must prioritise suppliers that apply contribute to employee development. the same principles as we do in terms of Our suppliers and other partners must code of conduct, quality requirements also share this approach. and business principles. WE SUPPORT Reduced environmental impact Social responsibility UN Global Compact A holistic approach to environmental isFor us, social responsibility means being For an international company, nationsues must play a key role in everything good citizens in the local communities al legislation is sometimes insufficient from product development activities, in which we operate by supporting local when it comes to creating consensus and manufacturing and choice of materials initiatives and contributing to positive common guidelines for the entire Group. to transport, product functionality and development. We have therefore made a committhe potential for recycling at the end of a ment to adhere to the UN Global Comproduct’s useful life. pact as a commonly accepted platform of mutual principles that can be applied Product liability equally by all our companies, partners and suppliers, wherever they are in the Our basic principle is that NIBE will pay world. due regard to all factors which have a bearing on the quality, safety and environmental performance of products. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 17 Strategies for good profitability and value creation Our goals are focused sharply on profitable growth and sustainable value creation with healthy finances. Our strategies for achieving our goals are tried and tested and based on our business principles, focusing on five areas: increased market share, cost control, frequent product launches, flexible, efficient production and sustainability throughout the added-value chain. Sustainable growth sis of our company spirit and culture. (Read more about our business principles creates conditions for and values on page 16.) good profitability Each Business Area has its own operational management with profit responsibilGrowth must be both organic and via straity. Each Business Area has a Business Area tegic acquisitions of strong brands and Board chaired by the CEO. These Business complementary product ranges on priority Area Boards also include external members markets worldwide. with complementary experience within The focus on world-class solutions in their respective areas. sustainable energy also contributes to a In addition to responsibility for operatbetter, more climate-friendly world. Our ening activities, each Business Area Board is tire value chain, from vision to end customalso responsible to the NIBE Board of Diers, must be based on the principles of susrectors for the strategic development of its tainability in our management philosophy Business Area. and our values. Employee commitment NIBE operates on relatively mature markets. This means that the total growth tarMotivated, committed employees are esget of 20% is not expected to be achievable sential to continued success. We ensure solely through organic growth. The annual that our expertise is continually enhanced organic growth target of 10% must thereand renewed via training and personal defore be combined with acquired annual velopment, plus listening leadership. Intergrowth of 10% on average. nal recruitment is an important part of our Operations take place within the frameprogramme to fill leadership roles and othwork of energy solutions in three Business er key roles, while we also recruit externally Expansion creates to add new expertise. Areas – Climate Solutions, Element and Leadership is very important in creating economies of scale Stoves. and retaining commitment, strengthening Joint purchasing the organisation and maintaining our corGrowth requires manageporate culture based on diligence and job Materials purchasing is coordinated both within each Business Area and between ment, commitment and satisfaction. Our leadership development Business Areas if there are obvious benefits programme reinforces this culture. follow-up to be gained from joint purchasing. When Follow-up a newly acquired company joins the NIBE Management Effective follow-up takes place at both Group, a purchasing partnership begins Tried and true principles of business-drivBusiness Area and Group level by means of almost immediately to quickly lower both en growth in the Group are combined with an efficient Group reporting system. Clear direct and indirect costs. structured, professional management and ratios are used to enable us to quickly obEfficient use of resources contributes to efficient follow-up. serve, act on and follow up on non-conprofitability. By managing resources and inOperational management is largeformities and undesired developments. creasing recycling, we reduce our environly based on decentralisation in our three As each subsidiary has its own budget, mental impact and reduce our costs. Business Areas with clear responsibility in which fixed costs and investments are We purchase responsibly by evaluating for profits in well-defined profit centres, subject to prudence, there is also a good our suppliers. In addition to requirements linked to clear goals in terms of both filevel of preparedness for action if financial for quality and environmental perfornances and sustainability. Our managedevelopments deviate from the assumpmance, we also work with our suppliers acment strategy is based on our business tions made. cording to the international principles reprinciples and values, which form the balating to human rights, working conditions 18 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Acquisition model ANALYSIS IMPLEMENTATION INTEGRATION The analysis phase is precise but fast. Our In the implementation phase, there is alIn the integration phase, we aim to retain three sectors are well defined and with our ways complete transparency about our not only brands, but also skilled employhistory we have the relevant ratios for comintentions with the acquisition. We are alees at every level. The primary synergies parison purposes. ways very clear and open about the inforare found on the purchasing side and in mation we provide on our management productivity improvements to the manuphilosophy and strategy, which often facilfacturing process. itates the process. and anti-corruption set out in the Globnology, we can offer products and solutions Decisive assessment al Compact. This requires a deeper, more that are attractive to the market and help time-consuming analysis, but we reduce reduce customers’ environmental impact. criteria for acquisitions the risk of interruptions in material flow We constantly challenge ourselves to find For a potential acquisition to be interesting, and events that may harm our reputation. the best solutions that can contribute to a we must be able to see that it adds new faster transition to a fossil-free society. Efficient production technology, enables us to establish a presExchange of knowledge and technology High productivity is essential to good comence in new geographical markets and/or transfers between both existing companies petitiveness, and our productivity philosoincreases our share in existing markets. in the Group and newly acquired entities phy is based on the belief that everything We apply the acquisition model above. The create synergies that considerably reduce can always be improved and that, if you basic requirements are that a company development time in several areas. This can’t measure it, you can’t improve it. Methmust have: trust is gradually built up as the obvious adods-time measurement (MTM) data pro• a strong position in terms of finances, the vantages in materials purchasing and provides a sound basis for efficient production market and technology duction become apparent. planning, accurate costings and calcula• competent management tions, reliable investment data and opporCommercialisation • a real entrepreneurial spirit tunities to follow up on business activities A decentralised organisation means great• development potential within the framecorrectly. Performance-based salary syser proximity to and understanding of the work of NIBE’s strategies. tems based on accurate MTMs also help enmarket. Strong business relationships are Good entrepreneurship holds the key to courage optimisation of working time and built up via professional, factual marketing opening future opportunities by constantpromote high productivity and fair salaries. based on strong brands with a high level of ly arousing curiosity and inspiring creativEfficient production also involves manrecognition among customers. The brand ity and commitment. Permitting acquired aging natural resources and inputs and promise must also be accompanied by companies to retain their identity and reusing or recycling to reduce our envicompetitive prices, good service, good cusbrands creates continuity on local markets. ronmental impact. All our production comtomer support and ethical business practicIn many instances, keeping companies inpanies must have environmental certificaes. Our customers must feel secure in the tact with the full management in the location and make continuous improvements knowledge that our products are safe and tions and environments where they were to reduce their negative impact on the air, manufactured responsibly and sustainably. originally established not only provides water and soil. At the same time, we elimOur high-quality, innovative products, the optimum conditions for them to realise inate all risks in the working environment with strong brands and carefully considtheir full potential, but also helps develop and improve safety to prevent accidents. ered marketing, are perfectly placed to inand invigorate the local communities in Newly acquired companies have full crease our market share on existing marwhich they play such an important part. access to all knowledge and experience in kets and expand into new markets. Companies that are new to the Group the NIBE Group. We have found that this is This means that acquired entities are must continue to enjoy a high level of ingreatly appreciated and builds up good requickly and naturally consolidated into the dependence. We want integration into the lations and trust between the partner comNIBE Group with their respective brands, NIBE Group to be about exploiting the benpanies. and their new affiliation further reinforces efits of belonging to a much larger cluster of their brands. Product development companies, and adopting the NIBE Group’s Always being at the cutting edge with the goals and strategies. most attractive product range makes product development another key to profitable growth. With a high rate of product development, based on research and new techNIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 19 Financial targets for long-term positive development Operating margin Growth Operating profit must be at least 10% of sales over a Average year-on-year growth must be 20%, half of which full business cycle in each Business Area. must be organic and half acquired. Target Target achievement Target Target achievement 12.9% Group 15.9% Group 10% 20% 14.6% Climate Solutions 19.4% Climate Solutions 11.1% Element 13.1% Element 12.7% Stoves 6.9% Stoves The operating margin must be at least 10% to give operaHalf of the targeted average year-on-year growth must tions the right stability and prepare them for both acquibe organic over time. Stagnating growth is a threat to the sitions and rapid changes in the business environment. maintenance of good, sustainable profitability. Acquired This is one of the cornerstones to ensuring long-term growth often balances organic growth in that it is usually positive development and continuous growth. During lower than organic growth in good times and higher in the past five years, the average operating margin has difficult times. During the past five years, total average been 12.4%. growth has been 13.5%. Operating profit in 2016 improved by 16.5% compared The companies acquired in 2016 injected combined anwith the previous year and the operating margin rose nual sales of just over SEK 4 billion into the Group, of from 12.8% to 12.9%. The completed acquisitions had a which just under SEK 1.7 billion impacted 2016 sales. Inconsiderable positive impact on operating profit, while cluding all the acquired companies and calculated on a currency effects for the year were insignificant. rolling 12-month basis, consolidated sales are now at just over SEK 17 billion, meaning that the sales target of SEK Because of the acquired companies’ varying levels of 20 billion should be achievable by 2020. profitability and seasonal patterns, a full 12-month period is required before a completely accurate operating profit can be recognised. Administrative acquisition expenses amounted to SEK 60 million (SEK 10 million) during the year and costs were recognised for acquisition processes that were discontinued. Operating margin Growth past five years (%) past five years (%) 20 20 Target 20 20% 15 15 16 Target 13 10 10 12 10% 7 5 5 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 NIBE Climate NIBE Element NIBE Stoves Solutions 20 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Return on equity Equity/assets ratio The average annual return on equity over a business The equity/assets ratio must not fall below 30%. cycle must be at least 20% after standard deductions for tax. Target Target achievement Target Target achievement 14.9% Group 46.6% Group 20% 30% Good return on equity contributes to a stable ownership A good equity/assets ratio shows that the Group has structure and share price, and enhances our ability to ata strong financial position. This is also a necessity in a tract further capital. During the past five years, the averGroup with strong growth. During the past five years, the age return on equity has been 16.3%. average equity/assets ratio has been 41.9%. The lower return on equity in 2016 is mainly due to equiGood earnings performance in 2016, combined with the ty being considerably higher in relation to profit after net new share issue, resulted in equity increasing by 63%, financial items. while total assets increased by 40%, greatly increasing the Group’s equity/assets ratio. At year-end, equity was SEK 12.1 billion, an increase of SEK 4.7 billion on 2015. The increase is mainly due to the A high equity/assets ratio makes it possible for NIBE to new share issue, which injected SEK 3 billion in equity. continue to expand aggressively via acquisitions. Return on equity Equity/assets ratio past five years (%) past five years (%) Target 60 20 20% 50 18.0 16.7 15 15.9 16.6 40 14,9 30 Target 10 30% 41.9 43.0 36.2 39.9 46.6 20 5 10 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2015 21 Sustainability targets Our targets are focused sharply on profitable growth and sustainable value creation. Our sustainability work has four quantified main objectives. Increased climate benefit A safe workplace with no Guaranteed systematic in our product portfolio accidents quality control and environmental work The target is for 55% of our sales to consist Our long-term goal is zero accidents, of The long-term target is for 100% of our proof LCE classified* products by the end of course, even though this is difficult to duction units to have certified management 2017. achieve. The partial goal is an accident fresystems for ISO 9001 and 14001. quency of fewer than 6 accidents per million hours worked by the end of 2018. Targets Target Target Target Target Target achievement achievement achievement 55% Zero (0) 100% 51.5% classified 10 accidents per 98% ISO 9001 products million hours worked 88% ISO 14001 Of our total 2016 sales, 51.5% (49%) conThere was a total of 193 accidents in the The target was for 100% of our production sisted of LCE-classified products. Group in 2016, 36 more than the previous units to have certified management sysyear. The accident rate was 10.1 (8.5) accitems for ISO 9001 and 14001 before the dents per million hours worked. end of 2016. Greater focus on accident reporting resulted In 2016, we achieved a certification level of in an improvement in companies’ reporting 98% for ISO 9001 and 88% for ISO 14001. in 2016. The effect of the increased reportA total of 19 certificates have been issued ing is that the accident figures increase insince the beginning of 2016. Three of the itially before the effects of the action taken seven companies that had no certificate are visible. at year-end 2016/2017 will be certified in 2017. Another three companies are new to the Group and aim to be certified by 2018. One company has had to defer its certification because of relocation. Percentage LCEAccident frequency Certified classified products per million working management (%) hours (number) Number of companies certified 60 15 100 Target 100 Intermediate 50 target 55 12 14.0 80 40 9 10.6 10.6 10.1 60 30 98% 88% 6 8.50 40 20 3 20 10 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 *Including wood-burning stoves * FTSE LCE ™ (Financial Times Stock Exchange Low Carbon Economy) is a quantitative model that is specially designed to form the basis for investors in assessing companies’ performance in the transition to a low carbon economy. Companies must disclose the proportion of their sales that is from classified product groups, and comparisons are made over time for each sector. The index is still in the development stage. 22 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Our impact on the environment Our direct environmental impact consists of the use of raw materials such as metals and other materials, energy consumption, emissions of carbon dioxide and generation of waste. There are also other impacts on the air, soil and water. The biggest indirect environmental impact comes from transportation and the environmental Continuous reduction in impact in our supply chain because of our orders. Our products have a mostly energy consumption positive environmental impact when they are used, considering that they result in considerably lower energy consumption and lower carbon dioxide emissions than traditional alternatives. The target is to reduce energy consumption Energy consumption Energy sources % of total energy consumtion by 30% from 2013 to 2020 (measured as Our total energy consumption, direct and indirect MWh/SEK million in sales) (excluding transportation), was 167 (161) GWh. Of this, 2% 2% 3.1 (2.5) GWh consists of electricity, heat and cooling 4% Electricity we generated from solar and wind power and heat 6% Natural gas pumps. Our indirect energy consumption, i.e. purchased Propane 23% 63% electricity and district heating, amounted to 112 (101) District heating GWh. Of this, 105 (98) GWh was electricity conFuel oil sumption. All our purchased electricity comes from Target Target renewable sources. Pellets We have started to measure emissions from transachievement portation and now have comparable data for our own 30% vehicle fleet for consumption of diesel and petrol. The consumption of petrol was 3.2 GWh and diesel 20.3 30% reduction in GWh. This is an increase on the previous year of 10% energy consumption for petrol and 11% for diesel. The target of 30% corresponds to a reducCarbon dioxide In 2016, carbon dioxide emissions from energy conCarbon dioxide tion from 14 MWh per SEK million in sales sumption in our own production plants and purchased emissions in 2013 to <10 MWh per SEK million in sales electricity and heat amounted to 12,100 (10,900) tonnes. tonnes in 2020. Natural gas, LPG and oil used in production process30,000 es stood for 88% or 10,700 tonnes. As from 2015, the Company has only purchased electricity with a certificate 25,000 Consumption of energy has fallen to 10.0 of origin from renewable sources, which accounts for the big reduction in CO2 emissions between 2014 and 2015. 20,000 (11.7) MWh per SEK million, which means We are now able to calculate CO2 emissions from that we have already achieved our target for our own vehicle fleet1 via fuel consumption. The total 15,000 2020. A new target will therefore be estabemissions from diesel and petrol amount to 5,800 tonnes, 10,000 an increase of 600 tonnes on the previous year. Our lished in 2017. ambition is to gradually switch to vehicles fuelled by 5,000 renewable energy. Energy audits were carried out at 5 (4) 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 plants in 2016. We will carry out a further 1We lack sufficient data at present for purchased transportation and business travel, so these components are five energy audits in 2017. not included. Materials Overview of major materials % of total use Metals such as iron, steel, copper and brass along 3% <1% Power consumption with magnesium oxide represent 80% (76%) of our Metals (MWh/Mkr) total inputs. Other inputs are stone, concrete, enamel, 5% Packag plastic, composite components and chemicals such Metals Magne 12% as dye and glue. 80% Packaging material Ename 20 In 2016, 9,580 (10,900) tonnes of packaging maEnamel, concrete, soap stone Plastic terial were used, consisting of wood, board, plastic Plastics Compo and steel. Paint, glue etc. Paint, 15 Waste to e 10 Intermediate target 10 5 Recycling and waste Waste categories % of total use In 2016, we recycled a total of 85% (75%) of our waste, 3% 1% 11% (8%) of which as energy recovery by means of 0 4% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 incineration. A total of 17,390 (18,050) tonnes of waste were generated, 760 (1,680) tonnes of which were 7% Waste to external recycling hazardous waste. Waste to incineration with energy recovery 11% We sent 1,220 (1,360) tonnes to external landfill, Waste to incineration without energy recovery which represents 7% of the total waste volume. This 74% Internal landfill consists, for example, of process waste, which may External landfill contain contents of heavy metals that are too high for Other recycling or materials that cannot be incinerated, such as stone, ceramics and composites. Materialåtervinning NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 23 Stakeholders and materiality analysis In 2016, we continued to work to identify our most important sustainability areas to ensure that we continue to focus on the right things in the future. Stakeholder analysis and dialogue and society. The questionnaire was comIf we compare NIBE’s current work in the pleted online by around 200 individuals. areas identified as priorities in the materialWe have included the following in the We were not able to cover all stakeholder ity analysis, it sits well with the choices and stakeholder groups whose opinions are of groups in 2016 and still have relatively limitpriorities made by NIBE to date: greatest importance to the Company and/ ed statistical data from the quantitative suror are affected most by the Company’s • NIBE’s products support the transition to veys. We see this as an ongoing process in performance: shareholders, B2B customsustainable cities and infrastructure. The which the data will be improved from year ers in various sectors, end customers and product range is largely based on energy to year as we gather more facts. However, it installers, employees, suppliers, analysis efficiency enhancement and renewable was possible to compile a sufficient quantiinstitutes and other representatives of the energy and is therefore in line with clity of data during the year to create a repremate-adapted products as a business financial sector and public authorities (susentative basis for our materiality analysis. strategy. pervisory and local). From these, we selected a number to Materiality analysis • NIBE invests in energy efficiency enhanceapproach via interviews and to collect inment and renewables in its own operaWith the Group’s working group for sustainformation from notes at meetings. We also tions and has measurable targets for this. ability issues, Group management carried studied what stakeholders ask us about to out a materiality analysis based on the are• The decision to sign the Global Compact ascertain what they are interested in. With reinforced NIBE’s previously communias that are regarded as most relevant to the some of the groups we have an ongoing cated values to respect human rights and Group’s operational focus and geographical take responsibility for the environment, open dialogue that permits us to compile presence as well as international initiatives qualitative information. The method for adworking environment and ethical busisuch as the Global Compact and Agenda ness methods. dressing each group was determined by the 2030 (SDG). The assessment also included number of stakeholders in the group and • NIBE has an accident rate target to create business environment requirements, global a safe working environment. the time available for practical implementrends, standards (GRI, ISO 14001 and CDP), tation. • NIBE has responded to the need to train the Company’s expected future growth, its staff. In the last two years, we have imThe results of the qualitative surveys with the concomitant risks and opportuniplemented extensive training initiatives in were used to create a simple questionnaire ties, and the outcome of the dialogue with ethical business practices and anti-corwith identified sustainability aspects in six stakeholders. ruption, primarily for those who have exdifferent areas: finance, products, environThe top priority aspects are summarised ternal contacts. ment, working environment, governance in the diagram below. 24 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Agenda 2030 and NIBE’s undertakings In line with its operational priorities and where it was considered possible to exert influence, NIBE has chosen to prioritise six of the seventeen goals included in Agenda 2030: General goals: NIBE’s undertaking: Increase the proportion of products based on renewable Ensure access to affordable, reliable, susGoal 7 energy and meet market demand for energy-efficient, clean tainable and modern energy for all energy solutions. Promote a safe, secure working environment, protect employPromote sustained, inclusive and sustainee rights, ensure decent working conditions both in our own Goal 8 able economic growth, full and productive operations and in the supply chain, and safeguard employemployment and decent work for all ment and growth. Build resilient infrastructure, promote Make production more sustainable by employing resources Goal 9 inclusive and sustainable industrialisation efficiently, using clean, environmentally-friendly technologies and foster innovation and setting aside funds for research and development. Supply resource-efficient, climate-adapted components, Make cities and human settlements incluGoal 11 products and solutions that contribute to sustainable cities sive, safe, resilient and sustainable and safe infrastructure. Employ sustainable practices for handling chemicals and reducing emissions and discharges into the air, water and Ensure sustainable consumption and proGoal 12 soil. Manage resources, minimise waste, recycle and reuse duction patterns more. Report sustainability information transparently in our reporting cycle. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Respect and maintain national and international legislation sustainable development, provide access to and work actively to prevent corruption in all its forms. Goal 16 justice for all and build effective, accountaCreate systems for internal control of compliance with legislable and inclusive institutions at all levels tion and ethical business principles. Undertakings based on the materiality analysis In working on the materiality analysis, we identified some • The working environment will be an agenda item at subsidiaries’ areas, in addition to those in which we already work, which board meetings at least twice a year, with accidents and actions require further work. being reported. All companies with more than 15 employees and an accident rate of more than 10 accidents per million hours • A policy for anti-discrimination, diversity and gender equality will worked will be required to prepare a written action plan for how be drawn up. The work of subsidiaries will be evaluated against they will achieve the target of an accident rate lower than 6 before the policy and national legislation in connection with site visits. the end of 2018. The plan will be evaluated and approved by the • The focus on sustainability in the governance process will be Group’s working group for sustainability issues, the ‘Sustainability increased by sustainability issues being communicated to the Council’. (See page 102 of the Corporate Governance Report ). Group Board of Directors to a greater degree. Our annual GRI report will be signed by the Board of Directors, and sustainability In 2017, there will be a review of existing targets and ratios, based will be integrated in our financial reporting. on the achievement of targets in 2016. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 25 Our employees We want our employees to thrive, develop and feel proud of their work. By applying our business principles and contributing to sustainable development, we are convinced that we not only strengthen our brand and increase profitability, but also become a better employer that can attract expert employees with sound values. All our 11,900 (10,500) employees bring different experience, knowledge and talents to the Company, adding great value to our operations. Committed employees For example, all employees who work Working environment Via our shared values and a clear code of in contexts in which they are at risk of exWe work hard to improve the working enconduct, which guide our decisions and posure to attempted unethical business vironment at all our plants to create a safe day-to-day operations, we can maintain practices underwent mandatory online workplace and reduce ill-health. Our goal is simple organisational structures with intraining in ethics and anti-corruption. This to achieve workplaces where no accidents dependent operational leadership. This intraining was launched in 2015 and is aimed occur. The partial target is to have an accispires commitment in our employees and at around 3,000 salaried employees in 21 dent rate of fewer than 6 accidents for every an incentive to develop and make use of countries. The training is now a mandatomillion hours worked by the end of 2018. their potential. ry part of the induction of new employees In recent years, we have intensified our If you want to thrive at NIBE, initiative, in areas such as marketing and purchasing. focus on accident reporting. This has resulthumility and common sense are a winning ed in more companies improving their recombination. We must treat each other with Working conditions porting of incidents and accidents. In 2016, respect, and managers must set a good exWe expect all companies in the Group to 62 companies reported lost time injuries to ample in terms of honesty and straightforlive up to our shared principles and we the Group, compared with 40 companies in ward communication. regularly monitor working conditions in 2015. The effect of the increase in reporting Our operations are knowledge-intenour own operations to ensure they meet is that the accident figures have a visibly sive and subject to constant development, our standards. Site visits are conducted at negative trend initially before the effects of which means that employees need to which the management is asked to present the measures taken are seen. continuously make use of the opportunihow they have implemented the Group’s In 2016, we had a lost time injury frety to develop their skills. A total of 190,000 values and how they work on the areas quency rate of 10.1 (8.5) per million hours (212,000) hours of training were conducted included in the agenda. Any need for imworked, and sick leave was 3.8% (4.2%). in various areas in 2016. This is equivalent provement or nonconformities established to approximately 16 (20) hours of training at a site visit, along with proposals for Diversity, gender equality and equal per employee. measures, are reported to the management opportunities of each company and to both the respecIn an international group, you learn to retive Business Area management and Group spect cultural and social differences, and management. The Business Area Directors above all you learn that people have more are also responsible for following up on the similarities than differences. Regardless of Summary of ratios 2016 2015 measures with the various companies in language, ethnicity, gender, age or backAverage number of each Business Area. ground, everyone wants to be respected employees 11,869 10,545 Nonconformities in 2016 primarily conand have the same opportunities without Europe 61% 65% cerned deficiencies in Employees the physical working any form of discrimination. Asia 8% 9% environment and lack of maintenance – by of mabusiness area We try to work in a way that guarantees North America 31% 26% chinery and buildings. There were no cases of tolerance to differences and gives everyone child labour, forced labour or any breach of the same opportunities for development, Percentage of women 38% 40% other principles relating to labour law. training and careers. In 2016, there were no Percentage of salaried employees 31% 30% reports of incidents involving discrimination. Percentage of graduates 14% 13% Hours of training/ Average number of employee 16 20 employees Employee turnover* 6.6% 7.1% past five years Percentage of employees Gender 12,000 11,869 who attend performance 10,000 10,545 reviews 60% 57% 9,726 8,983 are covered by collective 8,000 agreements 49% 52% 38% 6,000 8,006 Men are represented by safety 62% committees 87% 94% Women 4,000 Average age 39 40 2,000 Average period of 0 employment, years 8.0 7.8 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Accident rate, no. per million hours worked 10.1 8.5 *Employee turnover is calculated based on permanent employees who voluntarily end their employment. On account of different calculation criteria, with temporary employees being included in the figures reported for Sickness absence 3.8% 4.2% some plants in Mexico and China, these plants have not been included in the statistics. A new joint method for calculating employee turnover will be prepared in 2017. 26 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Responsible purchasing and good business ethics Every year, we buy direct materials from Anti-corruption As an international company, we also around 3,500 suppliers for a total value of Our values and business principles entail want to contribute to international initiaSEK 6.2 (5.5) billion. Metals and electronic zero tolerance to corruption in all its forms. tives that are close to our heart. Children components are the product categories This is communicated clearly in all conare our future, which is why we have decidwith the highest purchase value, and the tracts with suppliers and other business ed to support SOS Children’s Villages with highest volumes are purchased in Europe partners. financial contributions that go towards and Asia. In addition to mandatory training in anhomes, education and better living condiWe have strict requirements for our supti-corruption, we encourage our employees tions for vulnerable children. pliers in terms of product quality, reliability to be vigilant, to ask for advice in situations As from 2015, we also decided to work of supply, compliance with legislation and in which they feel uncertain and to report with the organisation Hand in Hand, beenvironmental performance. We also have all incidents in which they have been subcoming a sponsor for a village project. The a responsibility to work with our suppliers ject to any form of attempt at bribery or village is called Sunarkhedi in the district of to improve their internal working condiany other unethical action. In 2016, no inDhar in north-western India, and the aim is tions and terms of employment and work cidents linked to corruption were reported. to lift an entire village out of poverty. Womtowards transparency and ethical business One matter was referred to the Group’s en are trained in groups of 20 in entreprepractices. department for whistleblowing in 2016. neurship and finance. They can then apply When we evaluate our suppliers, we It was classified as an HR matter and was for microloans to run their own companies. apply both the traditional quality and demanaged according to standard procelivery requirements, and our code of condures. No infringements of legislation or induct, which is based on the ten principles ternal guidelines were reported. of the UN Global Compact. Where we see that there are deficiencies, we agree on an Social responsibility in the form of action plan to remedy them. If we identify support for others unacceptable deficiencies in exceptional Many of our companies are major employcases, or a lack of desire to make improveers in the local communities in which they ments, we may ultimately stop working operate. Each company has great freedom, with a supplier. within the framework of our values, to deIn 2016, we began working with just over cide how it wants to contribute to the de600 new suppliers, 348 of which were evalvelopment of its community. In 2016, local uated for quality, environment, working eninitiatives relating to culture, sport, health vironment and social responsibility. Of our and young people were sponsored to the existing suppliers, around 2,500 have been tune of SEK 1.8 (0.7) million. evaluated. Together with Hand in Hand, we have helped women in an Indian village start new businesses. By sponsoring a specific village project for three years, we are helping lift an entire village out of poverty. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 27 Our history Long-term thinking and continuity Clear shared values and long-term ownership are behind the continuity and stability in the Group. Since the beginning in 1949, we have created 1961 • a global Group with operations and sales on five continents • a good platform for further expansion with profitability 1949 1952 Rune Dahlberg is appointed MD of NIBE-Verken AB. With a strong focus on quality and rational production, he successfully runs the company up to his retirement in 1987. Based on Christian Backer’s patent for tubular elements, Nils Bernerup Nils Bernerup establishes NIBE-Verken AB in Markaryd through the acquisition 1965 establishes Backer Elektro-Värme AB in of Ebe-Verken, with its 3 employees. Sösdala, Sweden, to manufacture what The initial letters of his first name and came to be called the ‘Backer element’. surname form the company name, NIBE. Organic growth forms the basis for expansion The Group’s growth is based on the NIBE wins contract to manufacdevelopment of innovative products. ture stoves under the trademark Handöl. The entire company is subsequently acquired. The manufacture of NIBE’s water heaters starts in the same year as 1981 the Act requiring farmers to have hot water in milking parlours enters into force. With a resistance wire in the centre 1956 of an empty conduit filled with magnesium oxide, the tubular element is created, a new, easily applicable heating component for households and industry. The very first heat pump from NIBE, Fighter Twin, is premièred at the Sven Christensson, who is appointheating and plumbing show, and ed MD of Backer-Elektro Värme AB, manufacture of heat pumps begins is responsible, during his 25 years in in Markaryd. charge, for the company developing into one of the leading manufacturers of tubular elements in Europe. 28 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 1988 Continued marketoriented expansion 2014-2015 through acquisitions Good profits and stock exchange listing create the conditions for an intensive era of acquisitions and development into a global Group. Gerteric Lindquist is appointed to succeed Rune Dahlberg. 1997-2010 Two strategically important heat pump acquisitions are made on the With his international experiNorth American market. Another ence and passion for business, North American element business he lays the foundation for is also acquired. North America now international expansion with accounts for nearly a quarter of good profitability. Group sales. Another two European acquisitions and seven minor bolt-on acquisitions 1989 are made. The acquisitions make us  a major North American heat pump Some 40 acquisitions are made supplier between 1997 and 2010 within all three Business Areas, both in the Nordic region and the rest of Europe. In parallel with the acquisitions, six companies are established in Europe The Bernerup family decides to during this period. dispose of the two companies Backer Elektro-Värme AB and NIBE-Verken Some benefits of the acquisitions AB. A number of employees and two  new technologies external investors form NIBE Indus new products trier AB and acquire the companies.  new markets Gerteric Lindquist is appointed MD  new production capacity and Group CEO. 2011-2013 2016 1997 2016 is characterised by a continued high rate of acquisitions, with around Listing ten acquisitions, primarily in North America but also in Europe. Climate Control Group in the US is acquired and is the biggest acquisition in our history to date. The acquisitions mean  that we are the market leader in North America in heat pumps for NIBE carries out two business acquisicommercial properties tions in the US between 2011 and 2013. To allow for further expansion and to  that our position as one of the A further six companies are acquired in broaden ownership, NIBE Industrier world-leading element suppliers is Europe. AB holds a new share issue and the further reinforced company is listed on the Stockholm The largest acquisition in NIBE’s  that we have a stable platform in stock exchange on 16 June 1997. history to date is made in 2011, when North America for stoves the Group takes over the Swiss listed Schulthess Group AG. A successful new share issue is held, The acquisitions make us injecting SEK 3 billion, which permits  a major European heat pump operator continued expansion via acquisi a global element supplier tions.  the market leader for stoves in Europe NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 29 An investment in NIBE’s shares has produced a good return 20 years of profitable growth with sustainable world-class energy solutions Our focus on sustainable world-class energy solutions has given us over 20 years of profitable growth and a growing international presence. For anyone who has held shares in NIBE Industrier since our listing in 1997, this has been a good investment. Ambitious financial targets largely met Dedicated, long-term management NIBE has enjoyed average annual sales growth of Since its listing, NIBE has had the same Group just over 17% since 1997, combined with an opermanagement, apart from natural succession for ating margin between 10% and 13%, plus an averthe CFO position. age return on equity of just over 18%. The average total return on shares has been Economies of scale create profitability for the 24% per annum since 1997. Group’s companies NIBE’s group size creates economies of scale for all Meeting demand for energy efficiency of its companies in several areas: joint purchasing, enhancement expertise in boosting production efficiency and an NIBE is well positioned as a combination of driving open product development climate that reduces forces create continued demand for energy effidevelopment time and provides an opportunity ciency enhancement products. for technology transfer. High sustainability profile A well-developed acquisition process For many years, we have been developing our NIBE has a well-developed process for company products with our vision to create world-class acquisitions and clear intentions for existing comsolutions in sustainable energy, while focusing on pany management teams, ensuring that managers careful use of resources in our operations. stay in place. Continued growth on fragmented markets Strong corporate culture NIBE’s markets are characterised by continued With its Småland roots, NIBE has an explicit entrefragmentation. Consequently, there is good scope preneurial spirit and clear values that permeate for continued consolidation. the Group. 30 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 The NIBE share NIBE’s class B share is listed on Large Cap, NASDAQ Nordic under the name NIBE Shareholder value Industrier AB with ISIN code SE0008321293 in the Construction & Materials sector. To increase turnover in NIBE shares and give NIBE was registered on the OTC list of the Stockholm Stock Exchange on 16 June 1997 both current and future owners the opportunity following the issue of 1,170,000 new class B shares. The subscription price was SEK to evaluate the Group as fairly as possible, man70 per share. This corresponds to SEK 1.09 per share following the 4:1 splits carried agement strives ceaselessly to develop and out three times, in 2003, 2006 and 2016. Private placements have been carried out improve financial information relating to the on two occasions since the listing: in 2011/2012 with an issue of 65,334,552 class B company by taking an active role in meetings shares, when the shares were also given secondary listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange, with Swedish and foreign analysts, investors and the media. International press conferences and in 2016, when 7,391,566 class A shares and 55,610,504 class B shares were issued. and analyst conferences are held by telephone in connection with the interim reports. Share capital amounted to SEK 36,188 million. In 2016, a NIBE Industrier AB has share capital of SEK total of 163,232,008 NIBE shares were tradSilent periods 79 million, divided into 59,132,590 class A ed, which corresponds to a share turnover After the end of a period until an interim reshares and 444,884,032 class B shares. The of 34.8% over the year. port is published, there is a period of silence quota value (i.e. share capital divided by Dividend policy in which the Group’s representatives do not shares) is SEK 0.15625. Each class A share meet financial media, analysts or investors. The aim, over the long term, is to pay a divcarries ten votes at General Meetings and idend equivalent to 25–30% of Group profit each class B share carries one vote. All Analysts after tax. The Board proposes a dividend shares have equal rights to dividend. At the The following analysts are among those of SEK 0.88 per share for the 2016 financial end of 2016 the company had no outstandwho have tracked and analysed NIBE year, which equates to 30.0% of Group profing convertible loans or options that could it per share after tax. shares during the year: risk diluting the share capital. Shareholders Johan Wettergren, Carnegie Invest Bank AB Secondary listing The number of shareholders increased Max Frydén, Danske Bank Markets Following the new share issue in 2011, NIBE’s class B shares now also have secgreatly during the year. However, because Mattias Holmberg, DNB Bank ASA ondary listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange. of Swiss reporting regulations, it is, in prinJon Hyltner, Handelsbanken Capital ciple, impossible to determine the curErik Paulsson, Pareto Securities Share performance and turnover rent total number of shareholders for the In 2016, NIBE’s share price rose by 5.9%, Group’s secondary listing on the SIX Swiss Olof Larshammar, SEB Enskilda from SEK 67.83 to SEK 71.80. During the Exchange. Excluding these Swiss-registered Mats Liss, Swedbank AB LC&I same period, the OMX Stockholm_PI inshareholders, NIBE had 34,486 individual Douglas Lindahl, Kepler Cheuvreux creased by 5.8%. This means that, at the shareholders at the end of 2016, compared end of 2016, the market capitalisation with 21,430 twelve months previously. The NIBE-aktien of NIBE, based on the latest price paid, ten largest shareholders held 59.1% of the votes and 41.7% of the capital. Share performance, 1997-2016 5,000 Number of shares traded per trading day in thousands 80 Share price in SEK Shares traded per day (in thousands) 70 Share Share price price in SEK 31/12/2016 Shares traded Shares per per traded dayday(in thousands) (in thousands) ShareShareprice in SEK price 1,080 in SEK 250 4,000 1.100 SEK 71.80 1,080 1.100 1,080 1.100 250 250 972 60 972 972 864 880 200 3,000 50 864 864 880 880 200 200 756 756 756 648 660 40 150 2,000 648660 660 648 150 150 540 30 540 540 432 440 100 432440 440 432 100 100 324 20 1,000 324 324 216 50 220 10 216220 220 216 50 50 108 Share price 1080 108 0 0 0 16/06/1997 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 20090 2010 2011 1997 1998 19992012 2013 2000 2001 20022014 2015 2003 2004 20052016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 SEK 1.09 0 0 0 0 0 0 1997 1997 1998 1998 1999 1999 2001 2001 2000 2000 2002 2002 2003 2003 2004 2004 2006 2006 2005 2005 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2012 2012 2011 2011 2010 2010 2013 2013 2014 2014 Share price in SEK OMX Stockholm_PI (OMXSPI) SEK ShareShareprice in SEK price in SEK OMXOMX Stockholm_PI Stockholm_PI (OMXSPI) (OMXSPI) SEKSEK Average number of shares traded per trading day in thousands Average Averagenumber number of shares traded of shares per per traded trading dayday trading in thousands in thousands NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 31 Share performance Changes in share capital Increase in Quota value Total number of Total share capital share capital (SEK) (SEK) shares (SEK) 1990 New share issue 1) 6,950,000 100.00 70,000 7,000,000 1991 Bonus issue 40,000,000 100.00 470,000 47,000,000 1994 Split 10:1 2) – 10.00 4,700,000 47,000,000 1997 New share issue 11,700,000 10.00 5,870,000 58,700,000 2003 Split 4:1 3) – 2.50 23,480,000 58,700,000 2006 Split 4:1 4) – 0.625 93,920,000 58,700,000 2011 New share issue 5) 10,074,648 0.625 110,039,437 68,774,648 2012 New share issue 6) 133,876 0.625 110,253,638 68,908,524 2016 Split 4:1 7) – 0.15625 441,014,552 68,908,524 2016 New share issue 8) 9,844,073 0.15625 504,016,622 78,752,597 1) Private placement to existing shareholders at a subscription price of 4) Change in the quota value of each share from SEK 2.50 to SEK 0.625. SEK 100 per share. 5) Private placement to the former owners of the Schulthess Group at a subscription price of SEK 108.25 per share. 2) Change in the quota value of each share from SEK 100 to SEK 10. 6) Private placement to the former owners of the Schulthess Group at a subscription price of SEK 102.00 per share. 3) Change in the quota value of each share from SEK 10 to SEK 2.50. 7) Change in the quota value of each share from SEK 0.625 to SEK 0.15625. 8) Private placement to the Company’s shareholders at a subscription price of SEK 48.00 per share. On account of the 4:1 split and the preferential rights issue at a discounted share price, resulting in a dilutive effect of approximately 4.8%, in 2016, the number of shares and the majority of the historical ratios per share presented below have been recalculated. Data per share 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Number of shares no. 504,016,622 462,455,387 462,455,387 462,455,387 462,455,387 Average number of shares no. 469,382,260 462,455,387 462,455,387 462,455,387 462,155,901 Year-end share price SEK 71.80 67.83 47.90 34.57 22.35 EPS (after tax) SEK 2.93 2.67 2.12 1.86 1.65 Equity per share SEK 24.06 16.06 14.19 12.06 10.50 Proposed dividend SEK 0.88 0.80 0.64 0.56 0.48 Price/equity 2.98 4.22 3.38 2.87 2.13 Dividend yield % 1.23 1.18 1.34 1.62 2.13 Total yield % 7.15 43.28 40.41 57.17 – 5.90 Operating cash flow/share SEK 2.90 3.36 2.37 1.65 1.66 Payout ratio % 30.0 29.9 30.3 30.2 28.9 PE ratio (after tax) 24.5 25.4 22.6 18.6 13.5 Market capitalisation SEK million 36,188 31,367 22,150 15,987 10,336 EBIT multiple times 21.3 21.7 20.2 16.1 13.4 EV/sales times 2.75 2.78 2.54 1.93 1.51 Share turnover % 34.8 32.7 31.7 18.4 23.7 Definitions Earnings per share (after full tax) Operating cash flow/share EBIT multiple Earnings after full tax divided by the average Cash flow after investments – but before acquiMarket capitalisation plus net debt (internumber of shares in issue. sitions of companies/operations – divided by est-bearing liabilities less financial current the average number of shares in issue. assets) plus non-controlling interests divided Equity per share by operating profit. Equity divided by total number of shares in Payout ratio issue. Dividend as a percentage of earnings per share. EV/sales Market capitalisation plus net debt (interPrice/equity PE ratio (after tax) est-bearing liabilities less financial current Share price divided by equity per share, both as Year-end share price divided by earnings per assets) plus non-controlling interests divided at end of period. share. by net sales. Dividend yield Market capitalisation Share turnover Dividend as percentage of year-end share price. Year-end share price multiplied by the total Total number of shares sold during the year as number of shares in issue. a percentage of number of shares. Total yield Change in share price for the year, including dividend, as a percentage of share price at previous closing date. 32 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Major shareholders (source: Euroclear Sweden share register 30 Dec 2016) Shareholders Number of Number of shares votes (%) Current and former Board 111,353,755 47.18 members and senior executives1) Melker Schörling 54,927,359 20.24 Alecta Pensionsförsäkring 32,076,672 3.10 State Street Bank Trust Client 22,845,448 2.20 CBNY Norges Bank 11,205,209 1.08 Shareholder structure Lannebo Småbolag 9,100,000 0.88 (source: Euroclear Sweden share register 30 Dec 2016) Didner & Gerge Aktiefond 6,595,890 0.64 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of SIX SIS AG W8IMY 6,431,295 0.62 shares owners owners (%) shares shares (%) Fourth National Pension Insurance 6,353,857 0.61 1 – 500 20,293 58.84 3,120,265 0.63 Fund (AP4) 501 – 1,000 4,196 12.17 3,346,436 0.66 AMF Pensionsförsäkring AB 4,750,000 0.46 10,9% 1,001 – 5,000 6,620 19.20 16,166,072 3.21 SEB Sverigefond Småbolag 5,0% 4,609,142 0.44 0,1% 5,001 – 10,000 1,441 4.18 10,504,505 2.08 Odin Norden 4,588,711 0.44 Livförsäkringsbolaget Skandia Svenska institutioner Svenska privatpersoner Utländska privatpersoner Utländska institutioner 4,122,142 85% 0.40 10,001 – 20,000 963 2.79 13,974,045 2.77 OtherShareholdings of voting shareholders) (34,451rights, % 225,057,142 21.72 20,001 – 973 2.82 456,905,299 90.65 Share of capital, % Total Swedish individuals 504,016,622 100.0 Total 34,486 100.0 504,016,622 100.0 Swedish individuals Swedish institutions 1) For current Board, see page 104. Swedish institutions Foreign institutions Foreign institutions Foreign individuals Shareholder categories Proportion of capital Antal omsatta aktier per börsdag i tusental Aktiekurs i kronor (source: Euroclear Sweden share register 30 Dec 2016) 250 ((source: Euroclear Sweden share register 30 Dec 2016) 1.100 Antal omsatta aktier per börsdag i tusental 1.100 0.7% 1.4% 880 200 Share of voting rights, % Share of capital, % 9.5% 880 Swedish individuals Swedish individuals 19.7% 660 15.0% 150 Swedish institutions Swedish institutions 48.1% Foreign individuals 74.8% Foreign institutions 660 30.8% 440 Foreign institutions 100 Foreign individuals 440 220 50 220 0 0 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The share during 2016 0 Aktiekurs kronor OMX Stockholm_PI (OMXSPI) kronor 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 200 Number Genomsnittligtof shares antal traded omsatta trading peraktier perday börsdag in thousands i tusental Share Aktiekursprice in SEK kronor OMX Sto 2500000 2,500 Genomsnittligt 80 80antal omsatta akti 19/08/2016 06/10/2016 SEK 74.24 SEK 72.15 31/12/2016 2000000 2,000 12/05/2016 17/11/2016 SEK 67.00 SEK 71.80 SEK 69.54 70 70 1500000 1,500 31/12/2015 17/02/2016 SEK 58.24 SEK 67.83 1000000 1,000 60 60 500000 500 00 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 50 50 17 February 12 May 19 August 6 October 17 November Year-end report Interim Report 1 Interim Report 2 Prospectus Interim Report 3 2015 Annual General Meeting NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 33 NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area ‘Step Forward for Climate Solutions’ ‘ This means that we need to take a clear initiative on climate issues. Kjell Ekermo, Director of Business Area NIBE Climate Solutions In our ambition to further strengthen our cal work to position ourselves as a market High rate of product launches international position, all operations withleader for environmentally friendly, intelliOur product development initiatives have in the Business Area have been gathered gent and energy-efficient solutions for incontinued to be intense and the launch under the theme ‘Step Forward for Climate door comfort. rate continued to be high in all our markets Solutions’, focusing on our efforts to take a in 2016. The biggest launch of the year was clear initiative on climate issues. The obA year of strategic acquisitions the new NIBE F2120 outdoor air heat pump jective is to ensure that, at an internationCCG – our largest acquisition to date (see page 37), which was accompanied by a al level, we jointly put forward the case for major marketing campaign both in Sweden The biggest event of the year was our largaccelerating the conversion of old and nonand worldwide. The product has been very est acquisition ever: American company eco-friendly technology to more modern, well received by the market. Climate Control Group (CCG). CCG is one intelligent and environmentally friendly of the leading manufacturers of environContinued efficiency enhancements product solutions that improve energy effimentally friendly climate control solutions, ciency and use renewable energy. This will We have continued to focus on maintaining primarily for commercial buildings in the be done not only via marketing but also in operating margins. Cost-saving measures North American market, and operates with dialogue with trade associations, political were therefore introduced in production several famous brands. The US is now NIBE decision-makers and other stakeholders. and other areas of the business. Coupled Climate Solutions’ largest market and, Despite the fact that virtually the entire inwith considerable flexibility in production together with prior acquisitions, we are ternational community agrees that there is capacity over the year, this has enabled us the market leader in heat pumps for both a great need to significantly reduce the use to strengthen our operating margin somesingle-family homes and large buildings. of fossil fuels, the conversion is going far too what, except in the newly acquired units, Following the acquisition, we have also beslowly. Here we can make a difference. despite major fluctuations in demand and come the market leader in North America in Our international expansion continued significant investments in development fan coil units for waterborne systems. with full force in 2016 as did our methodiand marketing. Air-Site creates synergies in concepts for large properties Contributing to a more sustainable world The strategic partial acquisition of the Swedish ventilation company Air-Site AB Our mission to contribute to improving the has allowed us to combine ventilation exclimate is no empty promise. As we grow, pertise with heat pump technology experwe have greater opportunities to make tise. A jointly developed product concept a more tangible contribution to a world for large buildings will be launched in 2017. with environmentally friendly, intelligent, With a single solution we will offer heating, energy-efficient solutions for indoor clicooling, energy recovery and ventilation, mate comfort. There is very great potential which will further strengthen our market for our mission if you consider how many presence in the large buildings segment. properties do not yet have our type of solution installed. Enertech Group with several well-known brands The acquisition of most of the shares in the British Enertech Group, which has several well-known brands such as the Swedish CTC, is expected to further reinforce our position as a world-leading heat pump company. 34 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area Business focus Business objective We supply the market with world-class solutions in sustainable energy Our business objective is to consolidate our market-leadthrough products for indoor climate comfort and heating domestic hot waing position in Europe and North America. The number of ter designed for both single-family houses and larger properties. The proddomestic markets will gradually be increased by acquisiuct range comprises both individual heating products and systems for heattions, the establishment of subsidiaries or the use of other ing, cooling, ventilation, heat recovery and local energy production. well-established sales channels. Figures for 2016 In 2016, the Climate Solutions Business Net sales Area increased its net sales by 19.4% comOperating profit (SEK m) (SEK m) pared with 2015. The increase is primarily 10,000 1,500 attributable to acquisitions and increased 9,588 market share. 8,000 1,200 1,396 The operating profit for the Business Area 6,000 8,031 1,209 900 984 6,507 increased by 15.5% compared with 2015. The increase is mainly due to increased 4,000 5,901 5,740 600 807 844 sales and good cost control. 16% 2,000 300 Nettoomsättning 0 32% 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Targets Nibe Element Nibe Brasvärme Nibe Villavärme Growth target Target achievement, % Net sales Nettoomsättning Objective fulfilment Growth (%) We will achieve growth of at least 20% 25 per annum, of which half is organic. 20 23 Target 20% In 2016, total growth was 19.4% (23.4%), 18 19 Rörelseresultat 15 of which 4.8% (9.5%) was organic. This means that organic growth was 4.7 per10 13 21% 62% centage points lower than in 2015. 5 Growth has been 14.0% on average over -3 0 the past five years. -5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of Group Operating margin target Target achievement, Objective fulfilment % Rörelseresultat NibeOperating Nibe Villavärme Element profit Nibe Brasvärme Operating margin (%) The operating profit will be at least 10% 21% 20 of sales over a business cycle. 15 The operating profit in 2016 was 14.6% (15.1%) of sales. This means that the 14.7 15.1 15.1 14.6 13.7 operating margin decreased by 0.5 per10 Target 10% 67% centage points compared with 2015. 5 The operating margin has been 14.7% on average over the past five years. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of Group NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 35 Products that make the sustainable society of the future possible NIBE Climate Solutions offers a wide range of products for intelligent, energy-efficient indoor climate comfort, including heating, cooling, heat recovery, ventilation and hot water for homes, apartment blocks and commercial properties. Most of our solutions are based on recovery of renewable energy from the ground, rock, sun, sea or air. Our products, which can be combined in system solutions with both existing and new systems, can be divided into the following categories: Heat pumps Climate control systems for large District heating products properties The principle is based on indirectly extractLocal or district heating centres for forwarding energy from the sun which is stored in Large residential properties and commering district heating to individual properties. rock, the ground, the air, water or surplus cial properties usually have a climate conheat in ventilation exhaust air. The heat trol system that ensures good ventilation, a can be distributed in both waterborne and steady temperature and the correct air huSolar panels airborne systems, used to heat water and midity in all seasons. This requires system stored in an accumulator tank. solutions with a combination of heating Solar power generated from solar cells that and cooling systems and ventilation units can be combined with a heat pump and/or with heat recovery, with a heat pump prosold to a power producer. Ventilation products and cooling ducing heat, hot water and cooling. equipment Domestic boilers Fresh air ventilation with heat recovery Water heaters and via the heated exhaust air, and products Wood-fired or pellet-fired boilers that are accumulator tanks connected to an accumulator tank. for generation of cooling for single-family homes, large properties and industrial apWater heaters that are designed for enerplications. gy-efficient heating with either electricity, Commercial washing machines a heat pump or solar heating. Accumulator and tumble dryers tanks to make use of the heat from a woodfired boiler or heat pump, designed for both Washing machines and tumble dryers for single-family homes and systems in large large apartment blocks, hotels and hospitals. properties. Clear sales arguments New product areas, solutions Our products are marketed under strong brand names with The acquisition of the North American company CCG has addstrict requirements for environmental friendliness, quality and ed top-level technical expertise to the Group and expanded the energy efficiency and are designed to be strong alternatives to climate control offering for commercial properties. products that use fossil fuels. The products must also be highly innovative, have a modern design and be competitively priced. Far-reaching warranty programmes are also offered for the more capital-intensive products. Brands and trademarks 36 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area A breakthrough in efficiency An air/water heat pump with a SCOP* value of more than 5 NIBE F2120 Class-leading operating range • Up to 65°C flow temperature. 63°C flow temperature at -25°C. • Extremely easy to install. • Self-adjusting control system for genuine plug-and-play installation. 3-phase connection – for all models • No need for stronger fuses or rewiring. Quieter when it matters • A silent fan with intelligent control reduces sound to a minimum. Speed-controlled • An inverter-controlled (speed-controlled) compressor with EVI technology that adapts output to demand. • Able to supply cooling with cooling flow down to +7 °C. *SCOP = Seasonal Coefficient of Performance NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 37 Sustainable product development and production Extensive product development and Development that contributes to sustainaenvironmental impact. The strategy is to several development laboratories bility gradually build up a number of specialised Product development takes place at all of Sustainability is an important factor manufacturing units. our manufacturing subsidiaries. There are throughout a product’s life cycle. Proactive We invest continuously in all producproduct development centres focusing on market-based product development has a tion plants to improve the opportunities for heat pumps at our German company AIT number of target criteria. Our products must cost-efficient production for both domestic in Kasendorf, in Markaryd under the NIBE be resource-efficient in both production markets and segments on our other priorbrand, at the Danish company METRO and operation and thus help reduce climate ity markets that are subject to fierce price THERM in Helsinge and at our North Amerimpact. Consequently, we develop our competition. Part of our production takes ican companies Climate Master in Oklaproducts according to certain main criteria: place in the Czech Republic, Poland and homa City, Enertech Global in Greenville/ Russia, all of which have low production Illinois and Waterfurnace in Fort Wayne/ • Constantly improving energy efficiency salaries compared with Western and CenIndiana. • Utilise renewable energy tral Europe. Product development focuses on con• Greater opportunity for control (communiWe invested SEK 239 (232) million in our stant improvement in performance, incation/remote control) production plants in 2016. telligent controls and the production of • Convertible (heating in winter/cooling in Thanks to its modernised, highly rationsystems in which renewable energy prosummer) al production facilities in both high-cost duction is linked to climate systems and • Recyclable and low-cost countries, we believe that energy recovery via heat pumps. NIBE Climate Solutions is well placed to • Environmentally adapted Development expenses correspond to assert itself in tomorrow’s international cli• Better design mate control market. nearly 3% of sales. • Better overall cost efficiency Synergies Quality and environmental certification There is continual growth in the internaEfficient own production All production units with more than 10 tional exchange and collaboration between Production takes place in some twenty modemployees have certified management the product development departments at ern plants in eleven countries in Europe, systems for the environment and quality. our various companies, with positive reNorth America and Australia. The efficiency To create the same structured, systematic sults for the production of new products in of the plants is subject to a constant proworking methods for improving the workterms of both development time and level cess of enhancement through robotisation ing environment and reducing the risk of of technology. Transatlantic development and mechanisation. Our production units accidents, we are in the process of introcollaboration between our European and in Markaryd, Sweden, Kasendorf, Germany, ducing management systems for the workNorth American product development cenand Fort Wayne, Indiana, and Oklahoma ing environment as well. tres aims to combine top-level European City, USA, are the Business Area’s biggest Production management technology in heat pumps designed for waplants. Manufacturing methods in the NIBE The production of bulk products is based on terborne systems with the North American Group are evaluated regularly in order to forecasts. Large customised systems for comtradition of using airborne systems for both optimise production processes and reduce mercial properties are produced to order. heating and cooling. 38 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area Driving forces on the market Nordic countries Rest of Europe Other markets The global transition to more sustaina• Smart buildings, increased demand for Sales by ble solutions better energy performance and control of geographical region the climate control systems of homes and One fundamental driving force for our prod1% commercial properties. ucts is the essential global transition to more sustainable solutions to reduce neg• The property and construction market, demand for homes and commercial premis27% ative climate impact and save the Earth’s es and the economic situation determine 38% finite resources. According to the UN Envithe extent of construction and renovation. ronment Programme, buildings account for • The cost to the end consumer of investroughly 40% of total energy consumption in 34% ment and operating costs, depending on the world and emit a third of all greenhouse energy type. gases. A change in technology is required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Group trends and business environment factors can be found on page 14. Nordic countries buildings. Systems based on fossil energy Rest of Europe sources such as oil, coal and natural gas A very large market North America, Asia & Australia must be phased out in favour of systems The addressable global market for heatbased on renewable energy that also reOther markets ing, ventilation and cooling systems is very quire less input energy for the same output large. Our estimate is that it totals at least power. SEK 500 billion. The rate of this transition depends on a The HVAC (Heating, Ventilation & Air number of driving forces: Conditioning) sector as a whole represents great business potential. We currently only • Energy price trends, both for fossil fuels operate in part of it and there remain good such as oil and natural gas and electricity opportunities for future expansion with prices. product solutions for indoor climate com• Political instruments, direct financial supfort. port/subsidies for transition, energy taxes, indirect support that affects general conIf we look only at the need for heatstruction and conversion costs. ing appliances designed for detached and semi-detached houses in the EU, includ• Public authority requirements for products, including the Ecodesign Directive, ing Switzerland and Norway, the average which sets minimum energy performance annual replacement volume is estimated requirements for products in the EU sinto be around five million units. In addition, gle market. The intention is to improve during an average year around one million products’ environmental performance units are installed in new-build detached throughout their life cycle. Another exand semi-detached houses. This means ample is stricter energy-saving requirethat the penetration rate for heat pumps ments in buildings. These requirements designed for waterborne distribution is are largely national but the EU is working around 5%. to establish common requirements and standards. OPPORTUNITIES RISKS • Great market potential in Europe and North America • New laws, public authority decisions, energy taxes, etc. • Strong brands with a short-term perspective • Broad range of products • New technologies outside our current areas of expertise • State-of-the-art heat pump factories in Europe and North America • Reductions in new builds • Most advanced product development centres for heat pumps in Europe • Low gas and oil prices usually mean continued use of fossil and North America energy sources • Energy and environmental policy that promotes renewable energy • Artificially high electricity prices on several markets on the grounds that the transition to less use of fossil energy • Increased interest in renewable energy sources must be paid for with taxes on electricity • Access to rational production in countries with lower labour costs • Continued expansion through acquisitions on a fragmented market NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 39 An input with multiple returns In a heat pump, solar heat, stored in the air, rock, water or ground, is used to heat both the building and the tap water. The stored solar heat (the heat source) is obtained via a heat exchanger from the air, rock, seawater or the ground several metres below the lawn. The building’s energy requirements and heating system and the nature of the site determine the type of heat pump and heat source that are most suitable. For example, in a ground-source heat pump system, the heat is transferred from the rock (the heat source) via a heat carrier, a collector. The collector circuit is closed and contains a liquid with a low freezing point (a glycol solution) which circulates and is heated by the rock storing solar heating. When the glycol solution passes through the heat pump, it meets another closed system, the refrigerant circuit, in a heat exchanger (the evaporator), where the refrigerant is heated and begins to vaporise. The gaseous refrigerant then passes through a compressor that greatly increases the temperature of the refrigerant. Via another heat exchanger (a condenser), the gaseous, hot refrigerant then releases its energy to heat the building and the tap water. The still gaseous refrigerant then passes through an expansion valve, where the refrigerant becomes liquid again and is thus ready for a new cycle, which is repeated continuously while there is heating demand. The heat pump’s energy output, i.e. the heat generated, is measured in kilowatt hours (kWh). Efficiency is measured in SCOP (Seasonal Coefficient of Performance), i.e. how many times more energy (heat) a heat pump produces on average in one year than the energy (electricity) the compressor in the heat pump uses. If the SCOP value is 5, the heat pump delivers five times as much energy as the electric motor in the compressor uses to drive the heat pump. Example: Total energy required to heat the building and tap water 24,200 kWh, SCOP factor 5 => saving 19,360 kWh or 80%, total energy consumption 4,840 kWh Expressed in simple terms, this ground-source heat pump saved 19,360 kWh or 80% compared with a situation in which the building was heated with direct-acting electricity. Both economical and environmentally friendly. 40 °C 50 °C Condenser 100 °C Expansion valve Compressor Evaporater -2 °C -3 °C 0 °C Heat source LEK Heating medium Refrigerant Brine 40 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area Market position and growth Europe is the base The North American market for heat importers/agents that resell our products. The proportion of heat pumps in detached pumps intended for single-family houses The products are principally distributed and semi-detached houses is high in the varied in 2016 with a weaker first half but either to wholesalers or directly to installNordic region and they compete primarily with a recovery in the latter part of autumn. ers. The local installer is usually the end with district heating in urban areas. We estimate that ending financial support consumer’s closest contact and the person The proportion of heat pumps is lower for the use of renewable energy may result who ultimately sells and installs the prodin the rest of Europe, where gas boilers are in a certain decline in demand, primarily in uct. There may be different distribution dominant. Within the heating market as a early 2017. The construction of single-famisystems on the same geographical market. whole we remain a medium-sized player ly homes continues to grow and we will reThis is because we are represented by sevacross much of Europe, as we do not deal double our marketing efforts and play an eral operators, and because of our history, in gas-fired products. active part in the energy policy debate, all product portfolio and brands. We are the market leader in the Nordic of which should have a positive effect on Marketing to several recipients region, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, the demand. In some areas of North America, the rate We market our products through several Netherlands, Poland and the Czech Repubof growth of geothermal heat pumps is also channels: trade fairs aimed at our specifylic in the heat pumps market segment. We inhibited by restrictions on drilling in rock, ing partners and wholesalers, digital adverhave a good market presence with heat among other things. tising and print advertising. pumps on a number of other European We also enhance our relationships with markets such as France and the UK. Stable market for water heaters and installers by continuously offering trainIn Sweden, the construction of sindistrict heating ing in our respective product groups. The gle-family homes continued to increase The market for water heaters is relatively courses are primarily designed for individuduring the year, which benefited our sales, insensitive to cyclical fluctuations and is als working in the HVAC industry, but some primarily of exhaust air heat pumps. The therefore stable, while the market for concourses may also be interesting to other ocheat pump market, measured in number of ventional wood-fired boilers and products cupational categories. units, developed positively in the first half but slowed in the second half. Overall, this designed for pellet firing remains weak. The Not just the end user is important to us resulted in a slight decline, but by increasmarket for district heating products, which Our end customers are homeowners and ing our market share significantly, we have is chiefly concentrated in Denmark, Sweowners of rented properties and commeralso been able to grow in our home market. den, the UK, Germany and the Netherlands, cial premises. Other partners that have a The recovery of the German heat pump grew slightly. strong influence in the decision-making market continued in 2016 and sales perCommercial properties increasingly process are installers, architects, planners, formance has been relatively good. An inimportant design engineers, house builders, consultcreased awareness of renewable energy, ants and energy consultants. The international market for heating, ventinew product introductions and a strong Several operators are involved in the lation and cooling equipment in commersubsidy program for heat pumps are the HVAC sector for commercial properties, cial properties is becoming increasingly main reasons. The growth of the heat pump and the systems have grown in complexiimportant. Recent acquisitions have inmarket in Switzerland and Austria was also ty, so the decision-making process tends to creased our competitiveness in this area. stable. take a long time. At the same time, there is We see great potential in this segment for In the United Kingdom, low gas pricincreasing direct contact between us as the both new installations and replacement es and the British government’s cautious producer and the end customer, as deliverwith more modern technology in Sweden approach to financial support for renewaies are often made directly to the property. and worldwide. We are therefore develble energy after Brexit resulted in reduced oping the product range and organisation demand for heat pumps. The potential for continuously to boost our market share. growing our business is actually very good because heating with gas completely domFragmented market inates the market and this is not a sustainThe market for our Business Areas remains able solution. Here, we and the rest of the fragmented and there are many manufacheat pump industry have a pressing task to turers, both large and small. We are conwork on for the future. tinuing to grow but, at the same time, the Presence in North America reinforced competition is growing, primarily involving large international HVAC groups, which Our position has been reinforced in North are also focusing on energy efficiency enAmerica, which contributes significantly to hancement and more environmentally our growth and is now our biggest market. friendly products. The North American market is dominated by airborne systems for distribution Own subsidiaries of heat and cooling. However, the trend In our international presence, we have a for waterborne systems is positive. Oil and comprehensive distribution system for gas are predominant as energy sources but each market. The primary customers on there is a clear ambition to increase use of the international market are our own fellow renewable energy. subsidiaries in the Business Area or local NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 41 NIBE Element Business Area Industrial partner with customised solutions “ We continue to realise our business objective to be a global supplier of components and solutions for intelligent heating and control by means of acquisitions and organic growth. Christer Fredriksson, Director of Business Area, NIBE Element Through purposeful and consistent work tries and Evapoway, a minor bolt-on acon acquisition of a heating cable business with acquisitions and structural measures quisition, which produces solutions for the in Finland and the UK element company over several years we have created comrefrigeration industry. In the autumn we Braude, which focuses on elements for corpetitive units in their respective market acquired Omni Control Technology, which rosive environments, thus strengthening segments. In 2016, we also achieved our provides advanced control equipment, and our position in the industrial segment of long-term target of an operating margin of operations in the well-established element the UK market. We also acquired a comat least 10%. In order to lay the ground for company Hotwatt, which has a wide range pany that produces furnace-brazed special additional organic growth, comprehensive of special industrial elements. Overall in reelements from one of our colleagues in the market initiatives have been carried out cent years, we have acquired seven compaindustry. and common sales platforms have been nies in North America, placing us as one of established on several markets. the leading players in the North American Clearer focus and more efficient promarket. This also allows us to transfer Euroduction Continued high rate of acquisitions pean technology and new products to the In order to stably maintain our target operNorth American element market. ating margin of 10%, we continued to transA market leader in North America via acquisitions form our profit centres’ focus and activities, European acquisitions that add depth and among other things by means of product Our investment in North America was furbreadth to our product range specialisation, while implementing prother strengthened by several acquisitions We also made acquisitions in Europe durduction engineering action plans that gradin the US. In the spring we acquired the ing the year. These include Italian resistor ually strengthen the competitiveness of the North American company Heatron, which company ATE Electronics, which complecentres. Further investments in robotisaoffers foil elements, thick film elements ments our resistor business when it comes tion and automation were made in several and special elements for high-tech industo both products and markets, a small boltproduction areas, which provides us with further competitive advantages in a variety of specialist segments. Increase added value by means of further specialisation We work constantly to continue the growth of the Business Area, and our ambition is to continue to increase our market share both organically and via acquisitions. We are focusing on increasing added value with further product specialisation and a higher proportion of system content in our products, which offers good conditions for continued increased energy efficiency enhancement and thus makes a contribution to greater sustainability. 42 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Element Business Area Business focus Business objective We supply the market with world-class NIBE Element will be one of the leading suppliers in the world and its local solutions in sustainable energy by supplypresence and full range will be marketed on a growing number of domestic ing both producers and users with compomarkets by means of suitable acquisitions or new companies. Medium-sized nents and solutions for intelligent heating series are marketed by country or industry, while unique special products and control . and large bulk products are marketed globally. Figures for 2016 In 2016, the Element Business Area inNet sales Operating profit creased its net sales by 13.1% compared (SEK m) (SEK m) with 2015. The increase is primarily 5,000 500 attributable to acquisitions, consistent marketing and a strong market position. 4,000 400 473 4,252 The operating profit for the Business Area 3,000 3,758 300 342 increased by 38.3% compared with 2015. 3,193 2,822 280 The increase is mainly due to increased 2,000 200 sales and good cost control. 2,337 217 1.000 Nibe100 152 Nettoomsättning Energy Nibe Systems Element Nibe Stoves 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Targets Growth target Target achievement, % Nettoomsättning Net sales 25 We will achieve growth of at least 20% 20 per annum, of which half is organic. 21 15 18 In 2016, total growth was 13.1% (17.7%), 13 13 of which 3.2% (13.3%) was organic. This 10 27% means that organic growth was 10.1 10 percentage points lower than in 2015. 5 21% Growth has been 14.9% on average over 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Rörelseresultat Rörelseresultat the past five years. 58% Percentage of Group Operating margin target Target achievement, Objective fulfilment % NibeOperating Nibe Energy Systems Element Nibe Stoves profit Rörelseresultat Operating margin (%) Operating profit will be at least 10% of 12 sales over a business cycle. 10 Target 10% Operating profit in 2016 was 11.1% 8 9.1 11.1 8.8 (9.1%) of sales. This means that the 7.7 22% 6 operating margin improved by 2.0 per6.5 centage points compared with 2015. 4 The operating margin has been 8.9% on 2 average in the past five years. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of Group NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 43 Components and solutions that save energy NIBE Element offers a wide range of components and solutions for intelligent heating and control, where energy losses are minimised. The offering is aimed at a number of market segments ranging from producers of highly specialised industrial systems to producers of consumer products. We are steadily expanding our product products or unique customised solutions range to include more technologies to meet and can offer measurement and control customer requirements for energy optimioptions. We can also offer tests and simusation and heating in various applications. lations in customers’ product development We supply both components and comprocesses. plete solutions with ready-mounted system Energy efficiency in many sectors Our customers are in a wide range of sectors, and our offerings help their products benefit end users in a wide variety of areas: Domestic and household Advanced technology, Commercial products, appliances medicine, aviation professional kitchens A complete range adapted for large-scale Solutions for highly specialised, demandComponents and customised solutions bulk production of solutions for heat genering areas of expertise such as medical based on different technologies such as ation and control for domestic and houseequipment/laboratories, space, defence thick film, vacuum brazing and heat pump hold appliances. and industrial robots, all with their specific modules, adapted to international food requirements and rules. regulations and standards. HVAC for control and regulation Energy sector Transport – vehicles, rail-based, of indoor climate ships and aircraft Including frequency converters and soft A wide range of products for both renewaIntelligent solutions for both infrastructure start relays that increase the service life of ble energy production and the gas and oil and rolling stock in the rail sector and onelectric motors by protecting them from industry. For example electrical resistors for line control and software for traffic mansudden loads. Heat exchangers that deliver wind turbines that improve the power supagement. A wide range of components for stable heat adapted to actual demand and ply quality and permit short interruptions in the automotive industry, including electric ensuring low heat losses. the grid without the need to shut down the and hybrid vehicles. turbine. Industry, projects Customised design and construction, plus installation and commissioning of equipment cabinets and associated control panels. 44 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Element Business Area NIBE Element is a quality supplier that offers components with a good service life and solutions with high added value that help improve energy efficiency. We are also at the cutting edge of technological development to ensure that we can continue to be a relevant partner in a world of constant specialisation and enhanced technical content. Our offerings can be divided into a number of product groups that are sold either as components or as part of more complete systems. Tubular elements Ceramic elements Brands and trademarks Manufactured in a large number of dimenCeramic heating elements are placed insions and specifications that are used for side a tube and can therefore be easily reair heating and radiant heat, for example placed without needing to empty the tank in fan heaters, ovens and infrared heating, or container in which the element is locatand for heating liquids, for example water ed. heaters, dishwashers, washing machines and process heaters. Vacuum brazing Aluminium elements Brazing under vacuum, a method that ensures high quality and is therefore used in For optimum heat transfer by means of space and aviation technology, medical thermal radiation for use in domestic heatdevices and other clinically demanding aping as radiators and convectors and also plications. for railway compartment heaters and frost protection. Heat pump technology Foil elements Heat pump modules that cool, heat and dehumidify in hot and humid premises, for Foil elements are used as defrosters in vehiexample professional kitchens or laundries. cle wing mirrors and camera systems. Resistors Thick film elements Used for control and regulation of electricFor heat generation in electric kettles, exity. Products include braking resistors and haust emission control and copiers. power resistors. PTC elements Control equipment For rapid heat generation in car heaters, Electronics with processor power and softtowel rails, air dehumidifiers, air heaters ware onboard that can also be connected and dryers. for remote control and monitoring, where necessary. High-power elements For high power in a limited space, for example for heating tools in the plastics, rubber, wood and paper industries and also for heating liquids in medical and laboratory Technologies are also used in new areas of application environments. In our units, we also have access to certain specialist technologies, which can be used outside traditional element and resistor applications. For example, vacuum-brazing technology, which is traditionally used for tubular elements, can also Open spirals and tapes be successfully applied in the production of plate heat exchangers, primarily for heat pumps. Foil techniques are used in new technology focused on green soluFor heating air in tumble dryers and fan tions such as exhaust emission control for diesel vehicles and heating the batterheaters. ies for electric cars. New product areas, solutions Heating cables During the year, we have launched several products that we believe will offer new business opportunities. These include elements with a small diameter for appliUsually in frost protection to prevent ice cations such as medical devices, electronic thermostats and foil elements with formation and also to ensure a certain temintegrated electronics. perature in containers, pipes, valves and gutters and in the process industry. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 45 Sustainable product development and production Our product development is essential to Production Increased capacity our ability to survive on the competitive Production is carried out at some forty In Poland, we completed expansion of global market. Requirements for the varplants in Europe, North America and Asia. the production facility in order to meet ious industries and technologies differ Having production plants for bulk products increased demand in the electronics and significantly in terms of performance and on different continents gives us great flexcontrol product area. standards. The trend is also for growing ibility, allowing us to relocate production demand for system solutions and thus Quality and environmental certification based on the cost and currency situation. increased technical content. This is also Local production constitutes an imporWe are working to introduce certified qualreflected in the fact that the control is intant and major element of our competitive ity and environmental management systegrated with the elements themselves, i.e. strength for deliveries of small and meditems for all our production units with more sensors that are connected to control and um-sized series with short lead times. than 10 employees. This means that anmonitoring equipment. For larger series and special products, other four companies need to be certified We have therefore invested in modern production is based at specialist units. according to ISO 9001 and nine companies laboratories with well-developed testing according to ISO 14001. Three companies facilities, where we collaborate closely with Production moving back have recently been acquired and have until our customers to ensure that the products The trend to move production back to 2018 to gain certification. One company is meet standards and requirements. Europe and North America from Asia conexempt due to relocation and the remainSustainability is an important factor tinued in 2016. We can also see increased ing certificates will be in place in 2017. We throughout a product’s life cycle. Our prodrelocation of production to Eastern Europe are also working continuously to reduce ucts must, of course, be produced in a reas the dollar has strengthened, meaning the risk of accidents by introducing mansource-efficient manner, but above all they that production costs have been evened agement systems for the working environmust be energy-efficient to operate and out. Many customers are also keen to avoid ment. help reduce climate impact. lengthy transportation for logistical and enProduction management Product development expenses correvironmental reasons. Both forecasts and customer orders deterspond to just over 2% of sales. More efficient production mine production schedules, depending enLocal product development in networks Measures to boost productivity and quality tirely on customer category and production Greater specialisation combined with proare implemented continuously both in mavolume. active, fast-paced development in partnerjor investment programmes in areas such Coordinated purchases ship with our customers is the reason why as robotisation and via constant small but frequent improvements. Purchases are coordinated for basic goods product development is largely decentralInvestments of SEK 125 (118) million such as metals, minerals and metal proised at our subsidiaries. At the same time, were made in production capacity in 2016. cessing. Raw materials are hedged in spewe have an open climate for knowledge exDuring the year, we implemented accial cases, mainly for specific customer change between all subsidiaries, a network tion programmes at several of our units contracts. to which all newly acquired companies also have direct access. This technology transfer to improve productivity. The programmes is a proven way of creating continuous syninclude time studies, improvements ergies that considerably reduce developin production technology and performent time in several areas. mance-based pay systems. Development in four dimensions Our development process can be divided into four stages: • Product development for brand new prodOPPORTUNITIES ucts, new functions in existing products and improved features of existing prod• Industry restructuring and expansion through acquisitions ucts. • Purchasing and production synergies • Product adaptation mainly takes place • Energy technology is a globally expanding market with the customer to develop unique • Position in the various domestic markets provides opportunities to market a broader solutions to their special needs and range of products adapted solutions in which we assume • Strong brands greater system responsibility. • Rational, flexible production • Process development is carried out to optimise the products in terms of choice of • Access to rational production in countries with lower labour costs materials, quality and technical perfor• Market position as a front-runner among manufacturers in Europe, North America and mance. Asia • Production technology development im• Intensive product development proves manufacturing in terms of ma• Increased growth through delivery of solutions, including measurement and control chines, reduced environmental impact, production methods and efficiency. 46 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Element Business Area Driving forces and development on the market Over the past few years our operations The market in sectors related to energy Sales by have been increasingly affected by develconservation and sustainable energy solugeographical region opments within the areas of energy and the tions has grown as we have complementenvironment. These developments drive ed our product range, which has helped inour business, responding to the need to crease sales in this area. 10% make end products more energy-efficient Developments in the market for auto22% 37% and adapted to stricter requirements for remotive industry products have been posduced climate impact. This is particularly itive. Growth is being driven by increased relevant in industries that also have a focus vehicle sales, combined with stricter re31% on sustainable development such as wind quirements for eco-friendly vehicles and power, heat pumps, rail-based transport greater interest in electric and hybrid vehiand electric and hybrid vehicles. Group cles. Nordic countries driving forces and trends can be found on The trend in the oil and gas industry has Rest of Europe page 14. continued to be negative and in some segNorth America ments, demand has largely ceased. PendPotential to capture market share Other markets ing an increase in demand, our operations The addressable market for NIBE Element’s that are geared towards this industry have product areas is currently estimated to be been partially redirected towards other approximately SEK 50 billion. market segments. The market is generally fragmented with For rail-based transport, market growth Where, perhaps for cost reasons, we many local operators and some large rehas been good both in terms of infrastruchave chosen not to set up our own manugional ones. However, the North American ture and vehicles owing to several major infacturing operations, we have established a market is more homogeneous and can be vestments in infrastructure improvement presence in the form of a sales and techniregarded as one market. NIBE Element is a projects that are currently under way in varcal support office. We market our products global supplier in several product categoious European countries. We have also beby industry or country, depending on the ries of elements. come successfully established in the North size and structure of each industry. The markets for our product areas genAmerican market within these interesting erally tend to keep pace with national inTwo main customer groups: market segments. dustrial development and growth in GDP. OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer), Business model where the customer buys our products and Positive market development systems as part of their end product. The international element market has deCustomers in several industries Industry, where the customer primarily veloped positively over the year, although Our commercial customers in, for example, uses components and/or system solutions it has varied between markets and product the professional kitchens and refrigeration in their own manufacturing process. segments, depending on external factors industries, are increasingly part of large As one of the world-leading operators, such as changes in exchange rates and groups of companies with coordinated we are represented globally and can discommodity prices. We also received several purchasing, but they also have regional tribute our products to both these custommajor project orders during the year. suppliers. Consequently, it is important to er groups in a cost-efficient, environmentalGrowth in the domestic appliance inwork them both centrally and locally. ly sound way, with good service and short dustry was positive but weak in several For industrial products, our aim is to transport distances. geographical markets. Through efficient gradually increase our local presence so we high-volume production on several contican deliver small runs and specialist prodMarketing nents, we can meet the need of global doucts adapted to local needs with short lead As a subcontractor, NIBE Element markets mestic appliance producers for high-qualitimes and local technical support. its offering to the B2B market primarily via ty components at competitive prices. trade fairs, sales staff and the internet. For some large market segments, such as comfort, domestic appliances, wind power and transport, we now have global RISKS marketing managers who conduct marketing campaigns with shared sales platforms • New technologies protected by patents for groups of subsidiaries. • Price trends for raw materials • Cost trends in our production countries • Disproportionate product liability in the event of quality defects • Changes in exchange rates • Payment problems among certain large customers • Political risks on certain markets NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 47 NIBE Stoves Business Area Energy-efficient stoves for cosy warmth in all settings “ We have increased our market share on European main markets and established a good presence on the North American market. Niklas Gunnarsson, Director of Business Area, NIBE Stoves Through continued consistent marketing under esteemed brands such as Regency, with considerably higher efficiency and and investments in product development, Hampton and Excalibur. Products are sold lower emissions of particles compared with we have been able to increase our market through an extensive dealer network in the older products and as a member of nationshare on all our main markets in Europe. US and Canada and its own sales company al trade associations, taking a constructive A relatively steady rate of production over in Australia. approach to emissions issues. We see that the year and the adjustment of production we can make a difference with our stoves capacity to prevailing market conditions reStovax in the UK now wholly owned by promoting the replacement of old techsulted in a good delivery capacity. Although In March, the remaining 40% of shares in nology with new technology to the benefit the weakening of the British pound reduced the market-leading British company Stovax of both the environment and our own busisales, profitability has been maintained Heating Group were acquired. Since the ininess. Our own development work is carried thanks to good cost control. tial 60% was acquired in 2013, the company out in close cooperation with universities has developed very positively. Thanks to a and colleges. Acquisition that gives a solid market wide range of gas products under the Gazco platform in North America brand, we were able to offset the decline for With the acquisition of the North American wood-burning products in the UK. company Fireplace Products International New generations of stoves making a (FPI) in late 2016, we took another important strategic step in our international excontribution pansion. The acquisition gives us a solid We take a positive view of our continued market platform in North America, while opportunities in terms of both business reducing dependence on the European and sustainability. We are involved in the stove market. FPI is one of the leading ongoing debate on the environmental implayers in North America with a complete pact of emissions of particles from wood range of products for gas, wood and pellets firing both by presenting modern stoves 48 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Stoves Business Aarea Business focus Business objective We supply the market with world-class NIBE Stoves’ objective is to supply a wide and complete range of stove products in solutions in sustainable energy by offering order to confirm and consolidate its position as the market leader. energy-efficient, attractively designed, valExpansion abroad will be supported by the continuous development of products ue-for-money stove products and chimney tailored to new markets, combined with moves into new markets through acquisisystems, developed and manufactured with tions, the establishment of new subsidiaries or the use of existing sales channels. minimum environmental impact. Figures for 2016 In 2016, the Stoves Business Area increased Net sales Operating profit its net sales by 6.9% compared with 2015. (SEK m) (SEK m) The increase is primarily attributable to 2,000 250 acquisitions, many new product launches and consistent marketing. However, the 1,600 200 223 weakening of the British pound had a 1,766 206 negative influence. 1,652 180 1,483 150 1,395 1,200 152 The operating profit for the Business Area increased by 8.3% compared with 2015. The 800 1,064 100 116 52% increase is mainly due to increased sales 400 50 and good cost control. 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Targets Growth target Objective fulfilment % Target achievement, Nibe Villavärme Nibesales Net Nibe Element Brasvärme Growth (%) Nettoomsättning We will achieve growth of at least 20% 35 per annum, of which half is organic. 32% 30 31 11% 25 Rörelseresultat In 2016, total growth was 6.9% (11.4%), 20 Target 20% of which -0.4% (11.4%) was organic. This 15 is a decrease in organic growth of 11.8 10 percentage points compared with 2015. 11 5 Nibe VillavärmeNibe Nibe ElementBrasvärme 7 -8 6 Growth has been 8.9% on average over 0 the past five years. -5 -10 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of Group Operating margin target Target achievement, Objective fulfilment % Operating profit Rörelseresultat Operating margin (%) Operating profit will be at least 10% of 16 21% sales over a business cycle. 14 11% 12 Operating profit in 2016 was 12.7% (12.5%) of sales. This means that the operating 10 Target 10% margin improved by 0.2 percentage points 8 10.9 10.9 12.1 12.5 12.7 compared with 2015. 6 4 The operating margin has been 11.9% on average over the past five years. 2 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of Group NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 49 Heating products that create a cosy atmosphere Cosy heat sources Successful product portfolio NIBE Stoves’ product range comprises Our product portfolio, with its twelve strong brands in six product groups, makes us an allstoves for various energy sources in various round supplier and a strong business partner in our industry: sizes and designs to suit different kinds of houses and commercial properties. The range also includes chimney systems and other accessories. Free-standing stoves, in steel or Heat-retaining products Most of the products in our range use cast iron renewable fuel. They are therefore climate-neutral, which means that we contribute to a more sustainable society. Our products already comply with the future Inserts with a choice of surrounds, Accessories such as floor panels, Ecodesign Directive with lower emission including in steel and stone and wood storage and connection levels. They have modern combustion for inclusion in masonry pipes technology which ensures high efficiency and considerably lower emissions of particles than older stove products. Wood-burning inserts for fireplaces Chimney systems adapted to the requirements of the specific country Brands and trademarks Good for the environment and the customer Reduced environmental impact Wood is a renewable energy source, and firing with wood or pellets in a stove product is climate-neutral. However, wood firing can cause emissions of harmful particles and our good combustion technology limits these emissions. Our products have state-of-the-art technology producing optimum combustion. Products that touch the senses Fire symbolises safety to many and forms the basis of several soft values. A stove spreads heat, is calming and creates a cosy atmosphere. It achieves this with both the visible flames and the design of the stove. A stove is also a supplementary heat source when it is cold and provides peace of mind in a power cut, for example. It should not just be seen as a cost. It is also an investment that adds value to a property. 50 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Stoves Business Area Modern stoves have higher efficiency and produce lower emissions The Swedish Energy Agency conducted its biggest stove test to date in 2016. It showed that a modern stove has far lower wood consumption and emissions into the environment than older stoves. There are more than 1.7 million wood-burning stoves in Sweden*. Many of them are older models. The test showed that wood consumption can be reduced by around 20% and emissions into the environment halved or reduced by up to 85%. Unburned hydrocarbons and ash affect the environment. They also affect our health. Emissions of unburned hydrocarbons are reduced by 50-85% and emissions of ash are reduced by 60-80% in modern stoves. In the test, modern stoves were compared with two older stoves from the 1980s and 1990s. More efficient, and lower heating costs Most of the modern stoves tested have an efficiency of 75-80%, while the older stoves in the test are at 59-66%. The older stoves in the test are relatively large. This means that their output is higher than that of modern stoves, which are slightly smaller. * Source: Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 51 Product development and production for strong brands Product development, with the focus on able, safe, easy to install and easy to use. our ambition is always to anticipate future performance and design, is ongoing and This is why we have both the components more stringent requirements. is essential to our business. Our various and the complete product thoroughly As modern new stoves have considerabrands have completely independent tested before a new product is released bly higher efficiency and lower emissions of product development departments that onto the market. particles than older products, replacement are governed by our shared guidelines on should quickly have a positive impact on Our production units the environment and sustainability. This the environment. The future Ecodesign rehelps retain each brand’s distinctive charNIBE Stoves has its own production plants quirements are a step in the right direction acter and gives our customers great freein Sweden, the UK, Poland and Canada. for our industry. dom of choice. Knowledge about technolMost of our steel plate products sold in As part of our efforts to create strucogy for efficient combustion is exchanged Europe are made in Sweden. The Swedish tured working methods and a clear system, regularly and naturally within the Business production plant is largely robotised and the plants are certified to both ISO 9001 Area. This allows us to retain the flexibility flow-optimised, making it one of the most (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment). As a we desire, while responding to regional efficient in our industry. We have come a new acquisition, FPI is planned to have cerproduct requirements and trends. Regislong way in terms of both high quality and tification within two years. tration of designs is therefore an important productivity, and we keep our environmenWe also work continuously and systemmeasure to take. Product development extal impact and energy consumption at low atically to create a safe place to work and to penses correspond to approximately 3% of levels. reduce the risk of accidents. sales in the Business Area. FPI has a corresponding plant in Canada in which the North American brands are Production management Our product development can be divided produced. Production is based on forecasts. Seasonal into three areas: Stovax produces its wood-burning variations on the stove market mean that • Design is essential to overall percepproducts at carefully selected subcontracpart of the production volume is put into tion and may often be what determines storage to ensure delivery capacity in the tors, while its gas-fired products are manuwhether a customer chooses one product factured in its own plant in the UK. autumn high season. over another. A stove has to match the style of a home and be pleasing to the eye Concrete surrounds, fireplace materials Coordinated purchases in terms of appearance and proportions. and heat-retaining products are cast in our Purchases of large shared volumes of inIt should also be possible to see the fire plant in Poland. This is also where various puts such as steel plate, castings and cethrough large glazed areas from as many stone materials are processed. This unit ramic glass are coordinated within the angles as possible. mainly supplies our own brands with comBusiness Area. • Combustion technology is a very imporponents, but it is also an OEM supplier to tant area as all combustion entails some other manufacturers in the industry. level of emissions with an impact on our Investments of SEK 42 (34) million were environment and health. Efficient commade in production capacity in 2016. bustion is an important part of our responsible approach to producing sustainDirectives and quality and environmental certification able products, and we constantly employ a high level of development resources on We design and manufacture our products finding the best possible technology. on the basis of the Ecodesign, REACH and • Function is important as stove products RoHS Directives and other directives. Our need to be more than just beautiful. They products usually perform better than the need to heat homes. They have to be reliexisting public authority requirements and OPPORTUNITIES RISKS • Sales potential in new product segments • New government energy policies allow insuf• Huge market potential ficient time to implement product adaptations • Strong product development • Local authority restrictions on the use of • Strong brands wood-burning products • Broad range of products • Low-price range • Great interest in renewable energy • General weak economic climate • New political decisions relating to energy and the environment • Rational production • Expansion through acquisitions • Products already largely adapted to the Ecodesign Directive 52 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Stoves Business Area Driving forces and development on the market We operate on the consumer durables the UK, France, the US, Canada and Australia. sales, mainly in the first half of 2016. The market. Customers’ purchasing decisions Market position amount set aside for subsidies was spent are not only rational. They are largely also some time ago, so the total market is exThe market in Europe is very fragmented, emotional. pected to return to previous levels. with many small and medium-sized proMarket drivers ducers. There is room for continued conBusiness model • Economic climate and growth in dispossolidation and we see good opportunities Marketing able income. to continue to participate actively in this • Interior design trends. to enhance our market position. With our Decisions to purchase our products are nine European brands, we currently have largely based on how customers experi• The growth of the property market, the the biggest range in Europe in the product ence them. Consequently, in-store displays level of housebuilding, price trends and property turnover on the market, which segment of freestanding stoves and inserts, are an important marketing channel, and is often directly related to willingness to with surrounds, designed for both wood a large part of our marketing resources are renovate. and gas. spent on in-store displays. Other channels • Seasonal variations and the weather situIn North America, this consolidation are digital advertising, the interior design ation before and during autumn/winter. process has been ongoing for some time, press and consumer and trade fairs. • Energy price trends, both for fossil fuels with the result that the market has fewer Sales channels such as oil and natural gas and electricity operators, but the operators are very large Our products reach end customers via a prices. Higher energy prices offer an inand there is generally better profitability. well-developed network of specialist recentive to buy supplementary heating. FPI in Canada is one of the leading operatailers without any wholesaler in-between. • The Ecodesign Directive with lower new tors in our industry in North America and The retailers display the products and offer thresholds for emissions of hydrocarbons has a complete range of products for gas, a higher level of service than the DIY sector, and particles, introduced by 2022; we are wood and pellets. which primarily sells low-price products, a already well positioned. The European market has contracted slightly segment in which we have only a modest • Regional restrictions on the use of woodpresence. Spare parts and accessories are Demand for stove products varied greatly fired products on account of emissions increasingly sold online. of hydrocarbons and particles which may between countries in Europe. On big marhave a negative impact. kets such as Germany and France, demand for stove products fell for the third year in Wood, gas and pellets a row. At the same time, we enhanced our The three major energy sources for stoves market position on these contracting marare wood, gas and pellets. Firing with wood kets. In the UK, demand for gas-fired prodis traditional and dominates the market in ucts increased while the market for woodEurope overall. Wood-burning stove prodfired products decreased. ucts are available on all markets and have In summary, the total European stove the highest volume. market fell back slightly in 2016. There is a strong tradition of using gas in The reason for lower growth during the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands and North the high season was mainly the unusually America because there are extensive gas warm weather in Europe in early autumn. Nordic countries supply networks, with the result that gasGeneral intensification of the debate about Rest of Europe fired stove products are popular. The Italian the environmental impact of particle emis68% market is dominated by firing with pellets, sions from burning wood is also judged Other to markets and demand for pellet products has also inbe having a dampening effect in most marSales by creased in France in recent years. The prodkets in Europe. geographical region ucts are an excellent additional heat source Brighter in the Nordic region 2% during the cooler part of the year. Demand was generally improved on the 6% Electric stoves are used where it is not Nordic markets. In Sweden, demand for possible to install a flue gas duct. They are stove products continued to develop posiprimarily decorative but can also be fitted tively due to increased housebuilding and a 35% so that they emit heat. 57% generally good economic climate. Potential to capture market share Despite signs of a slowdown in the NorNIBE Stoves operates on the consumer duwegian economy, the demand for stove rables market. The addressable market for products increased due to greater interest NIBE Stoves in North America and Europe is in exchanging old fireplaces for products Nordic countries estimated to total SEK 30 billion. with better combustion and continued high Our markets are in Europe, North Amerinterest in home renovations. Rest of Europe ica, Australia and New Zealand. The main The subsidies introduced in Denmark North America markets are in the Nordic region, Germany, in late 2015 resulted in a sharp increase in Other markets NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 53 Administration report Annual Accounts 2016 Important events during the financial year New share issue Following a resolution at an extraordinary general meeting held on Acquisitions 3 October, a preferential rights issue was implemented where the The North American company Heatron Inc. was acquired in the first company’s shareholders were offered the opportunity to buy shares quarter. It mainly produces foil elements, high power elements and at a price of SEK 48 per share. The issue injected SEK 3,024 million thick film elements for high-tech industries in the North American into the company less issue expenses of SEK 16 million. The share market. The company has sales of approximately SEK 250 million issue increased the number of shares by 63,002,070, as 7,391,566 and employs around 240 people. The company’s operations were new class A shares and 55,610,504 new class B shares were issued. consolidated under the NIBE Element Business Area as of March After the issue, the number of shares totals 504,016,622, of which 2016. 59,132,590 class A shares (which entitle the holder to ten votes During the first quarter, the remaining 40% of shares in the Briteach) and 444,884,032 class B shares (which entitle the holder to ish company Stovax Heating Group Ltd were acquired. The compaone vote each). ny has a market-leading position on the British stove market. In April, 50% of the shares in Swedish company Air-Site AB were Remuneration acquired. The company, which has sales of SEK 26 million, is a venThe Annual General Meeting determines the level of remuneration tilation knowledge company and was consolidated under the NIBE to the Chairman of the Board and other directors. Climate Solutions Business Area as of April 2016. The Annual General Meeting also determines the guidelines for The operations of the Italian resistor manufacturer ATE Electronthe remuneration of the managing director and other senior execics were acquired in June. The company has sales of SEK 30 million utives, in accordance with which the Board subsequently deterand was consolidated under the NIBE Element Business Area as of mines the remuneration of the managing director. The remunerJune 2016. The acquisition value is still provisional. ation of other senior executives is determined by the managing The North American company Climate Control Group Inc. was director in consultation with the Chairman of the Board. Decisions acquired at the beginning of July. The company has sales of apin this regard are reported to the Board of Directors. For further deproximately SEK 2,300 million, an operating margin of approxitails of remuneration for the year, please see Note 6. mately 7.3% and around 1,250 employees. Climate Control Group The Board proposes that remuneration for 2017 should be deInc. is one of North America’s leading manufacturers in the field termined per the same principles as those adopted in 2016, with of heating, ventilation and air conditioning for both commercial certain changes. buildings and detached homes and was consolidated under the NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area as of July 2016. The acquisiEnvironmental issues tion value is still provisional. NIBE has production plants in 18 countries. Their environmental At the end of September, a conditional agreement on acquisiimpact mainly consists of: tion of parts of the British Enertech Group was made. The operause of raw materials such as metals and plastics tions, which are primarily based in Sweden under the CTC tradeuse of natural resources such as energy and water mark, have sales of just over SEK 800 million with an operating generation of waste margin of 4.8% and 460 employees. The transaction was approved by the competition authorities in Germany before year-end and in atmospheric emissions and discharges into water Sweden after year-end. Operations will be consolidated under the transport NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area as of March 2017. NIBE complies with national environmental legislation in all the In early November, the North American element company Omni countries in which it has production plants. Control Technology Inc. was acquired. The company has around 40 Where operations require a permit, results and any failure to employees, annual sales of approximately SEK 100 million and an comply with permit conditions are reported to the environmental operating margin of just over 13%. Operations were consolidated in authorities in the country in question and to the Group’s sustainthe NIBE Element Business Area as of November 2016. The acquisiability department. No cases of spillage or failure to comply with tion value is still provisional. environmental conditions were reported in 2016. In November, NIBE acquired a 65% stake in the Canadian stove The Group manages improvements in environmental performanufacturer, FPI Fireplace Products International Ltd, which has mance by following performance figures, setting targets and reannual sales of some SEK 600 million, an operating margin of 13% porting results according to GRI G4. The Group also reports to the and 380 employees. The company’s operations were consolidated Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Several of our products have a under the NIBE Stoves Business Area as of November 2016. The acpositive impact on the environment when in use as they help requisition value is still provisional. duce energy consumption, increase use of renewable energy and In early December, NIBE acquired the operations of North Amerthus reduce climate impact. ican company Hotwatt Inc., which has annual sales of some SEK 80 To read more about the Group’s targets and performance figures million and an operating margin of around zero. Operations were for environmental impact, please see page 22. consolidated under the NIBE Element Business Area as of December 2016. The acquisition value is still provisional. 54 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Administration report 54 Five-year review 56 Consolidated income statement 58 Business Areas 60 Consolidated balance sheet 62 Consolidated statement of cash flows 64 Ratios 65 Alternative performance measures 66 Parent 68 Risk management 70 Notes 72 Auditor’s report 97 Corporate governance report 100 Audit memorandum 103 Board of Directors, senior executives and auditor 104 Companies in the NIBE Group 106 Staff issues and human rights Ownership NIBE’s staff policy is based on everyone being of equal value and NIBE’s share capital is divided into 59,132,590 A shares and stipulates that everyone must have the same opportunities to ad444,884,032 B shares. Each A share carries ten votes at General vance within the company, irrespective of gender, ethnicity, age Meetings and each B share carries one vote. For class A shares, or background. We want our employees to see NIBE as a safe, fair which represent approximately 57% of the votes, the company’s employer that ensures a good working environment, good working articles of association prescribe an obligation to give existing shareconditions, diversity and gender equality. holders first refusal of any shares offered for sale. Our policy to respect human rights and prevent discriminaThe company has two shareholders who each hold more than tion also extends to our suppliers, and we evaluate new suppliers 10% of the votes, one of them a group of shareholders consisting against our requirements. We also follow up on existing suppliers of present and former directors and managers with around 47% of to ensure that they meet our requirements regarding human rights the votes, the other Melker Schörling, with around 20% of the votes. and working conditions. Our values and well-established code of conduct create a comProposal for appropriation of profits mon basis for collaboration, commitment and freedom with reThe financial resources at the disposal of the Annual sponsibility. As part of internal control in the Group, several subsidGeneral Meeting are: iaries are evaluated every year to ensure that everyone applies the same principles and that working conditions are good. Profit brought forward SEK 1,696 million To read more about our employees and responsible purchasing, Share premium reserve SEK 4,751 million please see pages 26 and 27. Net profit for the year SEK 1,102 million Research and development Total SEK 7,549 million The NIBE Group carries out market-leading research and development work within each of its Business Areas. We believe that this is The Board of Directors proposes issuing a dividend to shareholda crucial factor behind our continued organic growth and our abilers of SEK 0.88 per share, equivalent to a total payout of SEK 444 ity to establish a presence in new markets. It also means that we million. A total of SEK 7,105 million will be carried over in the accan respond quickly to changes in what our customers want and counts: SEK 4,751 million of this in the share premium reserve and transform their wishes into the best possible solution in the relevant SEK 2,354 million as profit brought forward. market context. See also Note 9. The Board of Directors deems that the proposed dividend is reasonable considering the requirements that the nature, scope and Future trends risks of the business place on the size of equity and the company’s Our corporate philosophy and our strong range of products, with and the Group’s consolidation needs, liquidity and financial positheir focus on sustainability and energy efficiency, are in tune with tion. This must be seen against the background of the information the times in which we are living. provided in the Annual Report. Before proposing this dividend, the We are well prepared to be proactive on acquisitions. Board has paid due consideration to the investments planned. Our internal efforts to raise efficiency, combined with our rigorous cost control measures, will guarantee persistently healthy margins. Corporate governance report As in previous years, the effects of economic trends, currency The corporate governance report on pages 100 103 is not part of concerns, volatile energy prices and political turbulence in some the Administration Report. parts of the world are hard to predict, but we remain cautiously positive about the year overall. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 55 Five-year review Income statement (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Net sales 15,348 13,243 11,033 9,834 9,192 Cost of goods sold – 9,817 – 8,461 – 7,106 – 6,462 – 6,032 Gross profit 5,531 4,782 3,927 3,372 3,160 Selling expenses – 2,664 – 2,371 – 1,977 – 1,739 – 1,709 Administrative expenses – 1,042 – 838 – 707 – 580 – 543 Other operating income 155 127 142 126 131 Operating profit 1,980 1,700 1,385 1,179 1,039 Net financial items – 109 – 86 – 93 – 62 – 34 Profit after net financial items 1,871 1,614 1,292 1,117 1,005 Tax – 495 – 377 – 310 – 259 – 242 Net profit 1,376 1,237 982 858 763 Net profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest – – – – – Includes depreciation according to plan as follows 542 480 402 385 368 Balance sheet (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Intangible assets 14,716 10,209 9,731 6,154 5,598 Property, plant and equipment 2,820 2,117 2,078 1,889 1,881 Financial assets 389 467 367 155 152 Total non-current assets 17,925 12,793 12,176 8,198 7,631 Inventories 2,799 2,115 2,109 1,760 1,685 Current receivables 2,798 1,901 1,844 1,415 1,339 Investments in securities, etc. 160 347 154 3 – Cash and equivalents 2,342 1,448 1,827 1,591 934 Total current assets 8,099 5,811 5,934 4,769 3,958 Total assets 26,024 18,604 18,110 12,967 11,589 Equity 12,129 7,428 6,560 5,575 4,858 Non-current liabilities and provisions – non-interest-bearing 2,763 1,605 1,849 1,267 894 – interest-bearing 5,858 7,118 7,558 4,391 4,013 Current liabilities and provisions – non-interest-bearing 2,596 2,289 1,849 1,533 1,320 – interest-bearing 2,678 164 294 201 504 Total equity and liabilities 26,024 18,604 18,110 12,967 11,589 Statement of cash flows (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Cash flow before change in working capital 2,045 1,717 1,327 1,255 1,038 Change in working capital – 274 222 77 – 183 – 53 Cash flow from operating activities 1,771 1,939 1,404 1,072 985 Investments in existing operations – 412 – 384 – 308 – 309 – 217 Operating cash flow 1,359 1,555 1,096 763 768 Acquisition of businesses – 4,357 – 171 – 2,648 – 166 – 226 Cash flow after investments – 2,998 1,384 – 1,552 597 542 Financing 3,998 – 1,302 2,095 271 – 366 Shareholders’ dividends – 369 – 298 – 259 – 220 – 221 Cash flow for the year 631 – 216 284 648 – 45 Cash and equivalents at start of year 1,795 1,981 1,594 934 1,007 Exchange difference in cash and equivalents 76 30 103 12 – 28 Cash and equivalents at end of year 2,502 1,795 1,981 1,594 934 56 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Income statement over the past five years Non-interest-bearing liabilities Growth Non-current, non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions consist The sales target is annual growth of 20%, preferably with half of this mainly of deferred tax, warranty provisions and additional considtotal generated organically and half through acquisitions. Over the erations. These grew from SEK 937 million to SEK 2,763 million over past five years, sales rose from SEK 8,140 million to SEK 15,348 milthe past five years, chiefly due to warranty provisions and deferred lion. This was achieved by means of a proactive acquisition strategy. tax attributable to intangible assets that have arisen on the acquisiAround 30 acquisitions of companies and business combinations tion of other companies. were implemented. Current non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions grew by Average growth during the five-year period was 13.5%. OrganSEK 1,131 million over the past five years, from SEK 1,465 million to ic growth accounted for a rise in Group sales of 2.8% and acquired SEK 2,596 million, approximately 82% of which represents accrued growth for 10.7% over the past five years. expenses and customary trade payables, which are both directly related to the expansion of the business. Operating margin The profitability target is an average operating margin of at least Cash flow over the past five years 10% in each of the Group’s Business Areas and an average return on Cash flow before change in working capital equity of at least 20% for the Group. Over the most recent five-year period, cash flow before change in During the five-year period, NIBE Climate Solutions’ average opworking capital showed a positive trend. erating margin was 14.7%. NIBE Element’s operating margin was an average of 8.9% during the period, while NIBE Stoves’ average operWorking capital ating margin was 11.9%. Working capital, measured as current assets less current liabilities, The Group’s operating margin over the five-year period averaged amounted to an average of approximately 17% of sales over the five12.4% and return on equity averaged 16.3%. year period. Investments in existing operations Balance sheet over the past five years On average, investments in existing operations over the past five Over the past five years, total assets rose from SEK 11,745 million to years corresponded to approximately 74% of depreciation accordSEK 26,024 million. ing to plan. The explanation for this moderate level is a combination of the Group’s organic growth and the fact that most of the Group’s Intangible assets production plants are already considered to have adequate capacIntangible assets consist mainly of goodwill, trademarks/brands ity for future growth. and market positions that have arisen on the acquisition of companies and operations. Goodwill and brands are tested annually for Operating cash flow impairment by calculating the present value of future cash flows. The Group’s operating cash flow was positive over the past five The principles used by the Group for impairment testing are deyears. This is because the investment rate in existing operations was scribed in Note 2 to the accounts under the heading ‘Goodwill and moderate, while considerable attention was paid to the Group’s daytrademarks’. to-day operating capital. Property, plant and equipment Acquisition of businesses Property, plant and equipment consists solely of land, buildings and During the period, NIBE Industrier AB pursued an aggressive acmachinery. The value of property, plant and equipment increased quisition strategy. Twenty-nine companies and business combinaby SEK 922 million over the most recent five-year period. Of this intions were taken over during the past five years: eight of these are crease, approximately 36% was added through acquisitions, and the now within the NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area, nineteen in remaining 64% through investments in existing businesses. These NIBE Element and two in NIBE Stoves. In 2012 and 2013, the pace investments were implemented largely in the Group’s facilities in of acquisition was relatively slow, though it increased again in 2014, Markaryd, Sweden, where the biggest of the production facilities for among other things with the acquisition of the listed WaterFurnace NIBE Climate Solutions and NIBE Stoves are located, as well as in Renewable Energy Inc. in North America. The pace of acquisition the Group’s production plants in Poland and the Czech Republic. was lower in 2015, increasing last year with acquisitions that included the North American Climate Control Group Inc. The objective is to Current assets continue to pursue an aggressive acquisition strategy in the future. Inventories and current receivables (mainly trade receivables) account for approximately 22% of total assets. Normally, both items Financing are directly related to sales and, therefore, growth. A preferential rights issue was held in 2016. After transaction costs, this injected SEK 3,008 million into the company. See also Note 25. Interest-bearing liabilities Otherwise, capital requirements over the past five years – for takeoCurrent and non-current interest-bearing liabilities and provisions vers, investments in existing operations, and working capital for orconsist of loans from banks and other financial institutions, bond ganic expansion and share dividends – were largely financed by the loans and pension provisions, and increased from SEK 4,871 million company’s own internally generated cash flows and by traditional to SEK 8,536 million over the past five years. This increase is attribbank loans. In 2015, bank financing was partially replaced by bond utable to new borrowing, primarily to finance the Group’s major acloans. quisitions in 2014 and 2016. The Group’s target is for the equity/assets ratio not to fall below Shareholders’ dividends 30%. Over the past five years this ratio averaged 41.9%. NIBE Industrier AB aims to pay share dividends of 25 – 30% of net profit for the year after tax. Over the most recent five-year period, share dividends varied between 28.9% and 32.2% of the year’s profit after tax. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 57 Consolidated income statement (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Net sales Note 3 15,348 13,243 Cost of goods sold – 9,817 – 8,461 Gross profit 5,531 4,782 Selling expenses – 2,664 – 2,371 Administrative expenses Note 5 – 1,042 – 838 Other operating income Note 10 155 127 Operating profit Notes 3 –10 1,980 1,700 Profit from financial items Profit from participations in associates and joint ventures Note 23 4 4 Financial income Note 12 103 53 Financial expenses Note 13 – 216 – 143 Profit after net financial items 1,871 1,614 Tax Note 15 – 495 – 377 Net profit 1,376 1,237 Profit for the year attributable to Parent shareholders 1,376 1,237 Non-controlling interest – – Net profit 1,376 1,237 Includes depreciation according to plan as follows: 542 480 Average number of shares 469,382,260 462,455,387 Net profit per share before and after dilution in SEK 2.93 2.67 Proposed dividend per share in SEK 0.88 0.80 Statement of comprehensive income Net profit 1,376 1,237 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains and losses in retirement benefit plans Note 26 – 30 –8 Tax attributable to other comprehensive income Note 15 6 2 – 24 –6 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Cash flow hedges 19 –2 Hedging of net investment – 89 – 373 Exchange differences 839 229 Tax attributable to other comprehensive income Note 15 – 59 81 710 – 65 Total other comprehensive income 686 – 71 Total comprehensive income 2,062 1,166 Total recognised income attributable to Parent shareholders 2,062 1,166 Non-controlling interest – – Total comprehensive income 2,062 1,166 58 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Comments on the income statement Net sales Net sales Operating profit The target for the Group is annual growth of 20%, preferably with half past five years (SEK m) past five years (SEK m) 16,000 2.000 of this total generated organically and half through acquisitions. 1,980 15,348 Group net sales increased during the year by SEK 2,105 million 1.600 1,700 12,000 13,243 (15.9%) to SEK 15,348 million (SEK 13,243 million). 1,385 Group net sales outside Sweden amounted to SEK 13,100 million 11,033 1.200 9,834 1,179 8,000 9,192 (SEK 11,181 million), an increase of SEK 1,919 million (17.2%). This means that net sales abroad accounted for 85.4% (84.4%) of total net 800 1,039 sales. Group net sales on the Swedish market increased by 9.0% to 4,000 400 SEK 2,248 million (SEK 2,062 million). 0 0 Acquired sales growth during the year totalled SEK 1,663 million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (12.6%), which means that organic sales increased by SEK 442 milOperating profit rose by Net sales rose by 15.9% lion or 3.3%. in 2016 16.5% in 2016 Operating profit The target for the Group is for the operating profit for each Business Area to be at least 10% of sales over a business cycle. Profit after Group operating profit totalled SEK 1,980 million, an increase of financial items past five years (SEK m) 16.5% on last year’s SEK 1,700 million. The operating margin was 2,000 12.9% compared with 12.8% in the preceding year. Operating profit for the year was charged with acquisition expenses of SEK 60 million, 1,600 1,980 compared with SEK 10 million last year, which were recognised as 1,614 administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement. 1,200 1,292 1,117 1,005 800 Profit after net financial items Profit after financial items rose by 15.9% to SEK 1,871 million (SEK 400 1,614 million) to yield a profit margin of SEK 12.2% (12.2%). Consol0 idated net financial items amounted to SEK –109 million (–86). The 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Group’s interest-bearing liabilities at year-end amounted to SEK Profit after net financial 8,536 million, against SEK 7,282 million at the beginning of the year. items rose by 15.9% in The average interest rate during the year was 1.4% (1.4%). Net finan2016 cial items include exchange gains and exchange losses. Tax Tax expense for the year was SEK 495 million (SEK 377 million), which gives an effective tax rate of 26.5% (23.4%). The increase is primarily due to higher tax rates in North America, where we increased our operations considerably during the year. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 59 Performance per Business Area during the year Quarterly data Consolidated income statement 2016 2015 (in millions of SEK) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Net sales 3,042 3,301 4,135 4,870 2,950 3,165 3,396 3,732 Operating expenses – 2,744 – 2,896 – 3,525 – 4,203 – 2,687 – 2,799 – 2,892 – 3,165 Operating profit 298 405 610 667 263 366 504 567 Net financial items – 30 – 28 – 38 – 13 – 35 – 22 – 18 – 11 Profit after net financial items 268 377 572 654 228 344 486 556 Tax – 67 – 98 – 154 – 176 – 58 – 75 – 112 – 132 Net profit 201 279 418 478 170 269 374 424 Net sales – by Business Area NIBE Climate Solutions 1,752 2,004 2,722 3,110 1,722 1,948 2,081 2,280 NIBE Element 979 1,045 1,079 1,149 917 966 943 932 NIBE Stoves 378 316 392 680 351 299 421 581 Elimination of Group transactions – 67 – 64 – 58 – 69 – 40 – 48 – 49 – 61 Group total 3,042 3,301 4,135 4,870 2,950 3,165 3,396 3,732 Operating profit – by Business Area NIBE Climate Solutions 180 307 443 466 172 286 365 386 NIBE Element 101 124 139 109 80 88 95 79 NIBE Stoves 33 17 52 121 20 10 59 117 Elimination of Group transactions – 16 – 43 – 24 – 29 –9 – 18 – 15 – 15 Group total 298 405 610 667 263 366 504 567 Sales by business area Past 9 quarters (in millions of SEK) 3,600 3,600 Business area contributions to sales 3,000 3,000 2,400 2,400 11% 1,800 1,800 NIBE Climate Solutions 1,200 1,200 27% 62% NIBE Element NIBE Climate Solutions NIBE Stoves 600 600 NIBE Element 0 0 NIBE Stoves Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2014 2015 2016 Operating profit by business area Past 9 quarters (in millions of SEK) 500 500 Business area contributions to profit 400 400 11% 9% 300 300 22% NIBE Climate Solutions 22% 200 200 68% 67% NIBE Element 69% NIBE Stoves NIBE Climate Solutions 100 100 NIBE Element 0 0 NIBE Stoves Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2014 2015 2016 60 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 NIBE Climate Solutions Net sales for the year amounted to SEK 9,588 million, compared with Net sales Operating profit SEK 8,031 million for 2015. The increase in sales was SEK 1,557 million (SEK m) (SEK m) (19.4%), with acquired sales accounting for SEK 1,171 million (14.6%), 10,000 1,500 which means that organic growth was SEK 386 million (4.8%). During 8,000 9,588 1,200 1,396 the past five years, sales increased from SEK 4,988 million to SEK 9,588 million. 6,000 8,031 900 1,209 984 6,507 5,901 Operating profit increased from SEK 1,209 million to SEK 1,396 mil4,000 5,740 600 807 844 lion, which represents growth in profits of 15.5% and an operating margin of 14.6% (15.1%) for the year. Over the past five years, the operating 2,000 300 margin averaged 14.7%. Several of NIBE Climate Solutions’ main heat pump markets in Eu0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 rope grew to some extent during the year. The North American market Net sales rose by 19.4% Operating profit rose by recovered at the end of the year after a weak start. in 2016 15.5% in 2016 NIBE Element Net sales for the year amounted to SEK 4,252 million, compared with Net sales Operating profit SEK 3,758 million for 2015. The increase in sales was SEK 494 million (SEK m) (SEK m) (13.1%), with acquired sales accounting for SEK 371 million (9.9%), 5,000 500 which means that organic growth was SEK 123 million (3.2%). During 473 4,000 400 the past five years, sales increased from SEK 2,124 million to SEK 4,252 4,252 million. 3,000 3,758 300 342 Operating profit increased from SEK 342 million to SEK 473 million, 3,193 280 2,000 2,822 200 2,337 which represents growth in profit of 38.3% and an operating margin of 217 11.1% (9.1%) for the year. Over the past five years, the operating margin 1.000 100 152 averaged 8.9%. Demand for NIBE Element’s products grew overall during the year, 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and this is the main reason for the healthy organic growth. However, Net sales rose by 13.1% Operating profit rose by growth in demand varied between markets and product segments due in 2016 38.3% in 2016 to business environment factors such as currency trends and raw material prices. NIBE Stoves Net sales for the year amounted to SEK 1,766 million, compared with Net sales Operating profit SEK 1,652 million for 2015. Of the SEK 114 million (6.9%) in growth, SEK (SEK m) (SEK m) 121 million (7.3%) was acquired, which means that organic sales fell by 2,000 250 SEK 7 million (-0.4%). During the past five years, sales increased from 1,600 223 1,766 200 SEK 1,153 million to SEK 1,766 million. 1,652 206 Operating profit increased from SEK 206 million to SEK 223 million, 1,483 180 1,395 1,200 150 which represents growth in profits of 8.3% and an operating margin of 152 12.7% (12.5%) for the year. Over the past five years, the operating mar800 1,064 100 116 gin averaged 11.9%. 400 50 The fall in organic sales should be seen against the background of reduced demand on the market in most product segments. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net sales rose by 6.9% in Operating profit rose by 2016 8.3% in 2016 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 61 Consolidated balance sheet Assets Equity and liabilities (in millions of SEK) 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 (in millions of SEK) 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 NON-CURRENT ASSETS EQUITY Note 25 Intangible assets Share capital 79 69 Market positions Note 16 1,863 1,112 Contributed capital 4,818 1,820 Brands and trademarks Note 17 1,901 1,237 Other reserves 693 – 17 Goodwill Note 17 10,571 7,539 Profit brought forward 6,539 5,556 Other intangible assets Note 18 381 321 Equity attributable to Total intangible assets parent 12,129 7,428 14,716 10,209 TOTAL EQUITY 12,129 7,428 Property, plant and equipment NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Land and buildings Note 19 1,578 1,191 AND PROVISIONS Machinery and equipment Note 20 1,117 825 Provisions for pensions Note 26 425 361 Construction in progress Note 21 125 101 Provisions for taxes Note 15 1,063 849 Total property, Guarantee risk reserve Note 27 623 448 plant, and equipment 2,820 2,117 Other provisions, non-interest-bearing Note 27 251 254 Financial assets Liabilities to credit institutions Note 7 3,535 4,875 Participations in associates and joint ventures Note 23 18 10 Bond loans Note 28 1,922 1,902 Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing Note 29 802 34 Investments held as non-current assets 7 6 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Deferred tax assets Note 15 322 428 AND PROVISIONS 8,621 8,723 Other long-term receivables Note 24 42 23 Total financial CURRENT LIABILITIES assets 389 467 AND PROVISIONS Liabilities to credit institutions Note 30 2,678 164 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS Accounts payable 1,140 835 17,925 12,793 Advance payments from customers 28 18 Current tax liability 89 91 CURRENT ASSETS Other liabilities Note 31 333 613 Inventories Accrued expenses and Raw materials and consumables 1,307 952 deferred income Note 32 1,006 732 Work in progress 198 136 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES AND Finished products and goods for PROVISIONS 5,274 2,453 resale 1,294 1,027 Total inventories 2,799 2,115 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 26,024 18,604 Current receivables Accounts receivable 2,424 1,627 Current tax assets 146 77 Other receivables 107 90 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 121 107 Total current receivables 2,798 1,901 Investments in securities, etc. 160 347 Cash and equivalents 2,342 1,448 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 8,099 5,811 TOTAL ASSETS 26,024 18,604 62 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 GROUP Changes in equity (in millions of SEK) Share ContributOther Profits Equity Total capital ed capital reserves 1) brought attributable to equity forward parent Equity 31 Dec 2014 69 1,820 48 4,623 6,560 6,560 Net profit for the year 1,237 1,237 1,237 Other comprehensive income for the year – 65 –6 – 71 – 71 Comprehensive income for the year – 65 1,231 1,166 1,166 Dividend – 298 – 298 – 298 Equity 31 Dec 2015 69 1,820 – 17 5,556 7,428 7,428 Private placement 10 3,014 3,024 3,024 Transaction cost, new issue – 16 – 16 – 16 Net profit for the year 1,376 1,376 1,376 Other comprehensive income for the year 710 – 24 686 686 Comprehensive income for the year 710 1,352 2,062 2,062 Dividend – 369 – 369 – 369 Equity 31 Dec 2016 79 4,818 693 6,539 12,129 12,129 1) Other reserves (in millions of SEK) Cash flow Hedging of net Exchange Total other hedges investments differences reserves Other reserves 31 Dec 2014 – 10 – 214 272 48 Change during the year –2 – 373 229 – 146 Tax –1 82 – 81 Other reserves 31 Dec 2015 – 13 – 505 501 – 17 Change during the year 19 – 89 839 769 Tax –4 21 – 76 – 59 Other reserves carried forward, 31 Dec 2016 2 – 573 1,264 693 Comments on the balance sheet Total assets Equity ratio and returns Consolidated total assets rose by SEK 7,420 million (39.9%) durA new share issue was held during the year (see Note 25), which had ing the year from SEK 18,604 million in the preceding year to SEK a significant impact on the ratios relating to consolidated equity. 26,024 million. The principal reasons for the increase are the addiThe Group’s equity ratio at the end of the year was 46.6% (39.9%). tion of assets and liabilities through the acquisitions made during Equity totalled SEK 12,129 million (SEK 7,428 million). the year, and exchange rate effects resulting from the weakening of The Group’s return target is a return on equity of at least 20% in the Swedish krona during the year in relation to most currencies in the long term. The return on equity in 2016 was 14.9% (18.0%). The which the Group has assets and liabilities. return on capital employed was 11.8% (12.1%). These ratios are also misleading because of the acquisitions made during the year. Working capital Consolidated working capital excluding cash and bank balances inInterest-bearing liabilities creased by SEK 1,274 million (73.8%) during the year from SEK 1,727 The Group’s interest-bearing liabilities at year-end amounted to SEK million in the preceding year to SEK 3,001 million. This is primarily 8,536 million (SEK 7,282 million). The increase of SEK 1,254 million due to an increase in inventories and current receivables. is primarily due to the Group’s liabilities to credit institutions having In relation to net sales, working capital increased from 13.0% to increased during the year to finance the acquisitions made. Since 19.6%. The increase is primarily due to the acquisitions made durone of the Group’s credit agreements expires in 2017, the liabilities ing the year. As acquired entities’ balance sheets are included in full, covered by the agreement were recognised as current liabilities to whereas their income statements are included from the time of accredit institutions. quisition, the ratio is misleading. Consolidated net debt, defined as interest-bearing liabilities less cash and equivalents and short-term investments, increased during the year by SEK 547 million from SEK 5,487 million to SEK 6,034 million. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 63 Consolidated statement of cash flows (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Comments on the statement of cash flows OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating profit 1,980 1,700 Cash flow from operating activities + depreciation/amortisation & impairment charged to 548 480 Consolidated cash flow after changes in working capital amounted this profit to SEK 1,771 million (SEK 1,939 million). + capital losses / – capital gains –9 –2 Investments +/– other items not affecting cash flow 45 – Investment in Group acquisitions of subsidiary companies/lines of Total 2,564 2,178 business totalled SEK 4,357 million (SEK 171 million). Other investInterest received and similar items 106 57 ment totalled SEK 412 million (SEK 384 million) net, allocated as follows: Interest paid and similar items – 214 – 141 Tax paid – 411 – 377 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Cash flow before change in working capital 2,045 1,717 Machinery and equipment 182 185 Properties 19 24 Change in working capital Construction in progress 111 88 Change in inventories – 145 –9 Other non-current assets 100 87 Change in current receivables – 45 – 45 Total 412 384 Change in current liabilities – 84 276 Cash flow from operating activities 1,771 1,939 Consequently, cash flow after investing activities was SEK –2,998 INVESTING ACTIVITIES million (SEK 1,384 million). Operating cash flow – i.e. after investInvestment in machinery and equipment – 192 – 193 ments, but excluding acquisitions of operations/subsidiaries – was SEK 1,359 million (SEK 1,555 million). Investment in buildings and land – 43 – 24 Investment in construction in progress – 111 – 88 Investment in other intangible assets – 96 – 83 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Sale of land and buildings 24 – Floating rate bank loans 6,172 5,039 Sale of machinery and equipment 10 8 Floating rate bond loans 1,150 1,150 Change in non-current receivables and other securities –4 –4 Fixed rate bond loans 772 752 Investments in existing operations – 412 – 384 Utilised portion of overdraft faciliOPERATING CASH FLOW 1,359 1,555 ties with floating interest rate 41 – Acquisition of companies 1) – 4,357 – 171 Provisions for pensions 401 341 Cash flow from investing activities – 4,769 – 555 Total interest-bearing liabilities 8,536 7,282 CASH FLOW AFTER INVESTMENTS – 2,998 1,384 Unutilised overdraft facilities 424 400 Other unutilised credit 1,888 2,812 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Total credit available 10,848 10,494 New share issue 3,008 – Amortisation of non-current loans – 611 – 3,044 The Group’s interest-bearing credit New loans taken out 1,601 1,742 Total consolidated interest-bearing liabilities at year-end amountShareholders’ dividend – 369 – 298 ed to SEK 8,536 million (SEK 7,282 million). The average interest Cash flow from financing activities 3,629 – 1,600 expense for total interest-bearing liabilities was 1.4% (1.4%). Consolidated net liabilities, which consist of interest-bearing liabilities less cash and equivalents and short-term investments, totalled SEK Cash flow for the year 631 – 216 6,034 million (SEK 5,487 million). Cash and equivalents at start of year 1,795 1,981 Exchange difference in cash and equivalents 76 30 Cash and equivalents at end of year 2,502 1,795 1) For further information about the acquisition of companies, please see Note 35. Investments in Investments/ Return on equity Operating cash flow existing operations Acquisitions 1,614 past five years (%) past five years (SEK m) past five years (SEK m) past five years (SEK m) 2,000 400 5,000 20 412 384 18.0 4,000 1,500 300 4,357 15 16.7 16.6 309 308 15.9 1,555 13 3,000 14.9 1,000 1,294 200 217 10 1,096 2,000 500 768 763 100 1,000 5 145 238 226 166 2,648 171 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Befintlig verksamhet 64 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Key ratios 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Net sales (in millions of SEK) 15,348 13,243 11,033 9,834 9,192 Growth % + 15.9 + 20.0 + 12.2 + 7.0 + 12.9 Operating profit (in millions of SEK) 1,980 1,700 1,385 1,179 1,039 Profit after net financial items (in millions of SEK) 1,871 1,614 1,292 1,117 1,005 EBITDA margin % 16.4 16.5 16.2 15.9 15.3 Operating margin % 12.9 12.8 12.6 12.0 11.3 Profit margin % 12.2 12.2 11.7 11.4 10.9 Net investments in non-current assets * (in millions of SEK) 5,156 531 3,098 912 478 Operating cash flow (in millions of SEK) 1,359 1,555 1,096 763 768 Cash and equivalents * (in millions of SEK) 2,926 2,195 2,735 2,372 1,710 Working capital, excluding cash and bank balances, relative to net sales * % 19.6 13.0 19.1 16.7 18.5 Equity (in millions of SEK) 12,129 7,428 6,560 5,575 4,858 Return on equity * % 14.9 18.0 16.6 16.7 15.9 Equity/assets ratio % 46.6 39.9 36.2 43.0 41.9 Proportion of risk-bearing capital % 50.7 44.5 40.8 47.2 46.5 Capital employed (in millions of SEK) 20,665 14,710 14,411 10,167 9,376 Return on capital employed * % 11.8 12.1 12.1 12.4 11.8 Return on total assets * % 9.4 9.6 9.6 9.9 9.5 Capital turnover times 0.69 0.72 0.71 0.80 0.79 Interest-bearing liabilities/Equity % 70.4 98.0 119.7 82.3 93.0 Net debt/EBITDA * times 2.4 2.5 3.3 1.9 2.5 Interest coverage ratio * times 9.6 12.3 7.6 12.4 11.0 Average number of employees no. 11,869 10,545 9,726 8,983 8,006 * Key ratios with calculation specified on pages 66 – 67. Definitions – key ratios Growth Equity Capital employed Interest-bearing liabilities/Equity Percentage change in net sales Taxed equity plus untaxed reTotal assets less non-interest-bearInterest-bearing liabilities as a compared with previous year. serves less tax. ing liabilities and deferred tax. percentage of equity. EBITDA margin Return on equity Return on capital employed Net debt/EBITDA Operating profit before depreciaProfit after net financial items less Profit after net financial items plus Interest-bearing net debt (financial tion as a percentage of net sales. 22% standard tax (26.3% in 2012) financial expenses as a percentage liabilities less financial assets) as a percentage of average equity. of average capital employed. divided by earnings before depreOperating margin ciation/amortisation. Operating profit as a percentage Equity/assets ratio Return on total assets of net sales. Equity as a percentage of balance Profit after net financial items plus Interest coverage ratio sheet total. financial expenses as a percentage Profit after net financial items Profit margin of average balance sheet total. plus financial expenses divided by Profit after net financial items as a Proportion of risk-bearing capital financial expenses. percentage of net sales. Equity, including non-controlling Capital turnover interest and deferred tax liability, Net sales divided by average Operating cash flow as a percentage of balance sheet balance sheet total. Cash flow after investments but total. before acquisition of companies/ operations. Equity/assets ratio Returns Margins past five years (%) past five years (%) past five years (%) 50 25 14 40 20 13 30 15 12 20 10 11 10 5 0 0 10 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Equity Operating margin Capital employed Profit margin Sysselsatt kapital Rörelsemarginal NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 65 Alternative performance measures Alternative performance measures are financial measures that are used by the company’s management and by investors to evaluate the Group’s profit and financial position using calculations that cannot be directly derived from the financial statements. The alternative performance measures provided in this annual report may be calculated using methods that differ from those used to produce similar measures that are used by other companies. Net investments in non-current assets (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Acquisition of non-current assets 5,185 539 3,136 941 499 Disposal of non-current assets – 29 –8 – 38 – 29 – 21 Net investments in non-current assets 5,156 531 3,098 912 478 Cash and equivalents (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Cash and bank balances 2,342 1,448 1,827 1,591 934 Current investments 160 347 154 3 – Unutilised overdraft facilities 424 400 754 778 776 Cash and equivalents 2,926 2,195 2,735 2,372 1,710 Working capital, excluding cash and bank balances (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Inventories 2,799 2,115 2,109 1,760 1,685 Current receivables 2,798 1,901 1,844 1,415 1,339 Current liabilities and provisions, non-interest-bearing – 2,596 – 2,289 – 1,849 – 1,533 – 1,320 Working capital, excluding cash and bank balances 3,001 1,727 2,103 1,642 1,704 Net sales 15,348 13,243 11,033 9,834 9,192 Working capital, excluding cash and bank balances, relative to net sales, % 19.6 13.0 19.1 16.7 18.5 Return on equity (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Profit after net financial items 1,871 1,614 1,292 1,117 1,005 Standard rate tax, % 22.0 22.0 22.0 22.0 26.3 Profit after net financial items, after tax 1,459 1,259 1,008 871 741 Equity at start of year 7,428 6,560 5,575 4,858 4,472 Equity at end of year 12,129 7,428 6,560 5,575 4,858 Average equity 9,779 6,994 6,068 5,217 4,665 Return on equity, % 14.9 18.0 16.6 16.7 15.9 66 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Return on capital employed (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Profit after net financial items 1,871 1,614 1,292 1,117 1,005 Financial expenses 216 143 194 98 100 Profit before financial expenses 2,087 1,757 1,486 1,215 1,105 Capital employed at start of year 14,710 14,411 10,167 9,376 9,338 Capital employed at end of year 20,665 14,710 14,411 10,167 9,376 Average capital employed 17,687 14,561 12,289 9,771 9,357 Return on capital employed, % 11.8 12.1 12.1 12.4 11.8 Return on total assets (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Profit after net financial items 1,871 1,614 1,292 1,117 1,005 Financial expenses 216 143 194 98 100 Profit before financial expenses 2,087 1,757 1,486 1,215 1,105 Total assets at start of year 18,604 18,110 12,967 11,589 11,745 Total assets at end of year 26,024 18,604 18,110 12,967 11,589 Average total assets 22,314 18,357 15,538 12,278 11,667 Return on total assets, % 9.4 9.6 9.6 9.9 9.5 Net debt/EBITDA (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Non-current liabilities and provisions, interest-bearing 5,858 7,118 7,558 4,391 4,013 Current liabilities and provisions, interest-bearing 2,678 164 294 201 504 Cash and bank balances – 2,342 – 1,448 – 1,827 – 1,591 – 934 Current investments – 160 – 347 – 154 –3 – Net debt 6,034 5,487 5,871 2,998 3,583 Operating profit 1,980 1,700 1,385 1,179 1,039 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment 542 480 402 385 368 EBITDA 2,522 2,180 1,787 1,564 1,407 Net debt/EBITDA, times 2.4 2.5 3.3 1.9 2.5 Interest coverage ratio (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Profit after net financial items 1,871 1,614 1,292 1,117 1,005 Financial expenses 216 143 194 98 100 Interest coverage ratio, times 9.6 12.3 7.6 12.4 11.0 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 67 Parent Income statement Statement of cash flows (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Net sales Note 3 7 8 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Administrative expenses Note 5 – 64 – 70 Operating profit – 57 – 62 Interest received and similar items 169 95 Operating profit Notes 3–10 – 57 – 62 Interest paid and similar items – 228 – 125 Profit from financial items Tax paid –5 –1 Profit from participations in Group Note 11 584 843 Cash flow before change in working capital – 121 – 93 companies Profit from participations in associates Note 23 4 2 Change in working capital and joint ventures Change in current receivables – 351 – 66 Financial income Note 12 169 93 Change in current liabilities – 292 45 Financial expenses Note 13 – 226 – 127 Cash flow from operating activities – 764 – 114 Profit after net financial items 474 749 Appropriations Note 14 772 119 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Tax Note 15 – 144 –6 Change in non-current receivables and other securities 1,185 – 139 Net profit 1,102 862 Cash flow from investing activities 1,185 – 139 Net profit attributable to Parent shareholders 1,102 862 OPERATING CASH FLOW 421 – 253 Investments in operations – 3,311 – 33 Statement of comprehensive Cash flow from investing activities – 2,126 – 172 income CASH FLOW AFTER INVESTMENTS – 2,890 – 286 Net profit 1,102 862 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss New share issue 3,008 – Profit from participations in Group companies 1,418 972 Cash flow hedges 9 –9 Amortisation of non-current loans – 1,433 – 2,844 Hedging of net investment – – 369 New loans taken out – 1,911 Tax attributable to other comprehensive income Note 15 –1 83 Shareholders’ dividend – 369 – 298 Total other comprehensive income 8 – 295 Cash flow from financing activities 2,624 – 259 Total comprehensive income 1,110 567 Cash flow for the year – 266 – 545 Parent shareholders 1,110 567 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 266 811 Cash and equivalents at end of year – 266 Total comprehensive income 1,110 567 PARENT Changes in equity (in millions of SEK) Share Statutory Fair Share Profit Total capital reserve value premium brought equity reserve reserve forward Equity 31 Dec 2014 69 75 – 212 1,753 2,000 3,685 Comprehensive income for the year – 295 862 567 Dividend – 298 – 298 Equity 31 Dec 2015 69 75 – 507 1,753 2,564 3,954 Effect of change in accounting policy 1) 499 – 499 New share issue 10 3,014 3,024 Transaction cost, new issue –16 –16 Comprehensive income for the year 8 1,102 1,110 Dividend – 369 – 369 Equity 31 Dec 2016 79 75 – 4,751 2,798 7,703 1) Following a rule change in the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 ‘Accounting for legal entities’, accumulated exchange losses that were recognised in the fair value reserve at the start of the year were reclassified during the year to profit brought forward. 68 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Balance sheet Balance sheet Assets Equity and liabilities (in millions of SEK) 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 (in millions of SEK) 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 NON-CURRENT ASSETS EQUITY Note 25 Financial assets Restricted equity Shares in subsidiaries Note 22 11,736 8,410 Share capital 79 69 Participations in associates and Statutory reserve 75 75 joint ventures Note 23 7 7 Total restricted equity 154 144 Receivables from Group companies – 1,185 Non-restricted equity Investments held as non-current Fair value reserve – – 507 assets 6 4 Share premium reserve 4,751 1,753 Deferred tax assets Note 15 2 144 Profit brought forward 2,798 2,564 Other non-current receivables Note 24 21 5 Total non-restricted equity 7,549 3,810 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 11,772 9,755 TOTAL EQUITY 7,703 3,954 UNTAXED RESERVES CURRENT ASSETS Tax allocation reserve 1 1 Current receivables NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Receivables from Group AND PROVISIONS companies 581 248 Provisions for pensions Note 26 7 6 Other receivables 34 7 Other provisions, Prepaid expenses non-interest-bearing Note 27 208 198 and accrued income 5 14 Liabilities to credit institutions Note 7 – 2,752 Total current receivables 620 269 Liabilities to Group companies 2,332 1,003 Cash and equivalents – 266 Bond loans Note 28 1,922 1,902 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS Other liabilities, non-inter620 535 est-bearing Note 29 40 – TOTAL ASSETS 12,392 10,290 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS 4,509 5,861 CURRENT LIABILITIES Comments on parent AND PROVISIONS Operations Liabilities to credit institutions – 98 Parent activities comprise Group executive management functions and Accounts payable 5 3 certain shared Group functions. Liabilities to Group companies 158 2 Current tax liability 2 4 Operating profit Other liabilities Note 31 1 346 The parent’s sales refer in their entirety to sales to Group companies, and Accrued expenses amounted to SEK 7 million (SEK 8 million) for the year. Administrative exand deferred income Note 32 13 21 penses consist primarily of personnel costs and purchased services such as auditing and expenses linked to the stock exchange listing. TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS 179 474 Net financial items The parent’s expenditure on operating expenses, interest, amortisation TOTAL EQUITY and dividends to shareholders is financed primarily through dividends AND LIABILITIES 12,392 10,290 and Group contributions from subsidiaries. Balance sheet The parent’s balance sheet total increased from SEK 10,290 million to SEK 12,392 million during the year. The principal reason for this is the investments made during the year in acquisitions of companies, which Following a rule change in the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s were financed by a new share issue. At the beginning of the year, the parrecommendation RFR 2 ‘Accounting for legal entities’, the parent no ent transferred all its receivables from subsidiaries and all its liabilities to longer recognises exchange rate fluctuations in loans and provisions for credit institutions to the wholly owned subsidiary NIBE Treasury AB. The additional considerations directly in equity in the fair value reserve. These parent’s bank balances were also transferred, so at year-end cash and exchange rate fluctuations are now recognised in net financial items in equivalents totalled SEK 0 million compared with SEK 266 million at the the income statement instead. The accumulated exchange losses of SEK start of the year. The parent’s non-current interest-bearing liabilities now 499 million after tax that were recognised in the fair value reserve at the consist of bond loans and liabilities to NIBE Treasury AB. Interest-bearing start of the year were reclassified to profit brought forward; see Note 25. liabilities at year-end amounted to SEK 4,254 million (SEK 5,755 million), Deferred tax assets of SEK 141 million attributable to the accumulated and the average interest rate on these liabilities amounted to 1.0% during exchange losses at the start of the year were recognised as a deferred tax the year. At year-end, most of the parent’s liabilities were in currencies expense; see Note 15. other than the Swedish krona, as set out in Note 7. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 69 Risks and risk management As a global player, NIBE faces both commercial opportunities and risks of various types. Even though NIBE chiefly operates in markets with strong economies, demand for the company’s products and services can be influenced negatively by a general downturn in economic activity or a decline in an individual country or individual segment. On top of this, there are risks such as changes in laws and regulations, shocks to the financial system, natural disasters, terrorism and so on. To counteract the effects of the various business risks facing the company, NIBE takes a systematic approach to risk management. The risk analyses for all companies are updated every year in a joint Group system called NICS, and the compiled results are used at board level to decide on priority measures. Dependence on customers insurance policies taken out. The excess on our policies is between All three Business Areas work with a wide range of customers. None SEK 300,000 and SEK 1,000,000. is so dependent on any one customer or group of customers that the Recall of products loss of that customer/group is likely to seriously impair the profitability of the Group. There is always a risk that a series fault in one of the Group’s product areas could lead to product recalls, through problems with materials The supply chain or for other reasons. The risks are minimised by means of systematic Most of the components in the products marketed by the Group’s quality control work and inspection procedures. Most Group compathree Business Areas are manufactured by several suppliers in Europe nies have ISO 9001 certification. Insurance policies have been taken and elsewhere in the world. out as additional risk cover for similar events. Suppliers may harm NIBE’s reputation if they fail to follow internaFinancial risks tionally agreed principles for human rights, working conditions, environmental protection, ethical business conduct and/or social responCredit risks, currency risks, financing risks and interest-rate risks that sibility, or if they fail to comply with national legislation in these areas. can affect the NIBE Group are described in Note 7. NIBE evaluates suppliers against internationally agreed principles, Climate change quality requirements and their delivery capacity. Extreme weather conditions in the form of storms, flooding and exIn our opinion, the Group would not suffer serious harm if any inditreme heat or cold represent a risk of damage to property and entail vidual supplier were unable to meet our stipulated requirements. an increased risk of damage to the environment in the form of spills, Price risks unplanned discharges and leakage. They also create a risk that proThe Group’s materials consist mainly of metals that are priced in US duction will be interrupted and ability to deliver will fall. Risks of damdollars and quoted on the London Metal Exchange, LME. To avoid age and loss can be minimised using risk analyses and preventive overdependence on specific currencies and markets, purchasing promeasures and by being prepared. cedures have been largely globalised. In 2016, purchases of raw maNIBE has global insurance cover for major losses caused by natural terials such as nickel, copper and aluminium were partially hedged disasters. through forward contracts. Environmental risks Other operating expenses follow general price trends in the marHandling materials and chemicals in our production plants entails a kets in which the Group operates. risk of damage to the environment for which the Group will be held Risks relating to disputes over patents and litigation liable. The Group can be held liable for contaminated land and the impact The Group holds few patents and only for components which form on groundwater in properties caused by previous owners. part of its finished products. However, NIBE does have several regisIn our opinion, the risks are minimised by means of systematic entered designs and registered trademarks. As far as we are aware, we vironmental work and due diligence when acquiring companies. have not infringed any third-party patents. Influx of new expertise Insurance risks NIBE’s future success depends largely on its ability to recruit, retain, It is our considered opinion that the Group has adequate cover for tradevelop and replace qualified officers and other key individuals. In our ditional insurance risks such as fire, theft, liability, etc. via the global opinion, our strategic HR work counteracts this risk. Sensitivity analysis The Group is exposed to some risk factors that affect earnings trends. Several of these risks are beyond the Group’s control. The table below sets out a few changes and illustrates their effect on consolidated results. The impact of the changes is calculated based on the figures in the 2016 balance sheet and income statement. Basis for calculation Change Impact Net sales (margin constant) 15,348 (in millions of SEK) +/– 1.0 % 63 (in millions of SEK) Operating margin (volume constant) 15,348 (in millions of SEK) +/– 1.0 % 153 (in millions of SEK) Material costs 6,230 (in millions of SEK) +/– 1.0 % 62 (in millions of SEK) Personnel costs 3,858 (in millions of SEK) +/– 1.0 % 39 (in millions of SEK) Interest-bearing liabilities (interest constant) 8,536 (in millions of SEK) +/– 10.0 % 12 (in millions of SEK) Interest rate % (interest-bearing liability constant) 1.4 % +/– 1.0 percentage point 85 (in millions of SEK) 70 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Risk area Risk description Compensating factors Opportunities Systematic working environment efforts with Accidents resulting in personal injury. A good working environment promotes producWorking environrisk analyses of tasks, machines and materials. Interruption in production due to incitivity and creates more efficient workplaces with ment dents involving inadequate safety. Procedures for reporting incidents and investibetter well-being and higher motivation. gating fundamental causes. Disruptions at the distribution level The distribution channels are checked regularcan have a negative impact on cusly. Procedures are in place for following up and Improvement in customer relations. Distribution tomers. taking any required action. More efficient and more environmentally-friendIncreased carbon dioxide emissions Coordination and efficient utilisation of transly transportation. due to higher freight volumes. portation reduces emissions. The integration process and the synerAcquisitions contribute to expansion with greatgy effects take longer than expected. The Group has well-proven procedures for er know-how, a wider product range and greater Impairment needs. examining potential acquisitions. Integration geographical presence. Acquisitions and synergy are achieved through very close Unforeseen events and discoveries in cooperation with the acquired companies. Acquisitions provide coordination gains and the acquired companies. contribute to sector structuring. Patents, registered designs and regisProcedures and training for greater informatered trademarks. tion security and knowledge in how to manage Protection of intangible assets adds value and is Intellectual property intellectual property rights. Clear contracts to a competitive advantage. Infringement of others’ patents. prevent disputes. Hacking of data systems, theft of Strict IT policies for user authorisation, softGood IT security contributes to efficiency and IT business-critical data or sabotage of ware/hardware-related protection mechastability. critical data systems by viruses. nisms and clear instructions for use. Extreme weather conditions lead to Risk analyses, preventive measures and Good preparedness lays better foundations for Climate damage to property and the envipreparedness. Insurance cover for natural continuity and is thus a competitive advantage. ronment. disasters. A shortage of top-level expertise or Strategic HR work to recruit, retain, develop Successful recruitment, development and leadership expertise that leads to Expertise poorer product and business develand replace qualified officers and other key retention of expertise enhances innovation, individuals. business development and growth. opment. All employees at risk undergo training in anGood business principles ensure stable operati-corruption. A whistleblower function exists. tions and trust among employees, customers Lower trust in the Group. Corruption and public authorities. Business partners sign an anti-corruption High costs and litigation. clause as part of their contract. Good transacAn ethical, reliable image generates competitive tion procedures. advantages. NIBE works to ensure redundancy for critical Exploit the size of the Group to be a priority Dependence on individual suppliers. components and materials. customer. Suppliers Suppliers’ departures from ethical Suppliers are monitored continuously against Enhance supplier relations with regular folbusiness principles may have a negathe business principles and values that all low-ups and discussions to promote high tive impact on the Group’s reputation. business partners must follow, and any quality and sustainability. non-compliance must be remedied. Complexity due to wide geographical distribution. Large macroeconomic Higher sales due to increased global presence. fluctuations. Huge global market. Contributing to a sustainable society through Market Changes in energy taxes, subsidies Frequent monitoring by market and product our high-tech, sustainable products. and energy legislation. group, along with flexible manufacturing, facilitates rapid action. Continued long-term and stable relationships National differences in product with the industry. requirements. Marketing that demonstrates the advantages of our products for the environment, sustainaThe end customer chooses the lowFocus on a brand with high quality and sustainbility and customer satisfaction counteract any price range. able products. interest in the low-price range. Price Changes in exchange rates which have A global presence counteracts the impact of Changes in raw material prices often coincide a negative impact on the Group. with greater demand, and this can be offset exchange rate fluctuations. Material prices. through higher sales. The risk of much higher prices for metals can be counteracted with forward contracts. More stringent standards from naProduct development adapted to markets, Increased collaboration within the Group to tional or global legislation affecting legislation and sustainability. enhance knowledge and innovation. Become Product developenergy, emissions and substances. the market leader with a unique product portfoment Modern test facilities and top-level expertise. lio that meets market demand for performance Rapid technological development. Life cycle analyses. and sustainability. Continuous monitoring of statutory compliBeing an open, honest employer with a high Political instability or labour disputes ance, procedures and policies, and construclevel of statutory compliance and healthy Social unrest can cause production stoppages that, tive negotiations with employee representvalues will ensure well-being, motivation and in turn, lead to compensation claims. atives. efficiency. Production plants are subject to risk assessments and constant improvement with High degree of continuous improvement beneThe Group is hit by production stopongoing maintenance and new investments. fits the production process and safety. Manufacturing pages due to external circumstances. Sound procedures in the production process Switch production to another similar operation in relation to quality, the working environment within the Group as required. and the external environment. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 71 Note 1 of the votes or otherwise has a controlling influence. An acquisition that does not involve 100% of a subsidiary results in a non-controlling interest. Where the holder of the remaining interest has an option to sell it to NIBE, or NIBE has an obligation to buy, NIBE has decided to employ the Anticipated Acquisition Method (AAM), which GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE BUSINESS means that 100% of the subsidiary is considered to have been acquired at the time NIBE Industrier is an international heating technology company. Our business operof acquisition. This also means that a liability equivalent to the present value of the ations are organised in three separate Business Areas: NIBE Climate Solutions, NIBE estimated future purchase price is recognised. Consequently, no non-controlling inElement and NIBE Stoves. terest is recognised with this type of acquisition transaction. Companies acquired/ The Group has more than 13,000 employees and conducts business activities in sold are included in the consolidated income statement for the period during which 22 countries in Europe, North America, Australia and Asia. The legal structure of the they were owned. Group comprises several subsidiaries, which run their operations via their own comThe consolidated financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with panies or branch offices. the acquisition method, with the application of IAS 27 and IFRS 3. The parent, NIBE Industrier AB, is registered and domiciled in Sweden. The adItems included in the financial statements for the different units in the NIBE Group dress of the company’s head office is Hannabadsvägen 5, Markaryd. The company are valued in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the comis listed on Nasdaq Nordic. Its activities consist of Group-wide functions, such as fipany operates (functional currency). In the consolidated financial statements, the nancing, currency transactions, acquisitions, new business starts, financial control parent’s functional and presentation currency is used, which is the Swedish krona and policy matters. (SEK). This means that foreign subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities are translated at These consolidated financial statements were approved for publication by the the closing day rate. All income statement items are translated at the average rate Board on 23 March 2017. for the year. Translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. In some cases, long-term monetary dealings arise between a parent and an independent foreign operation, in which the dealings are of such a type that they are unlikely to be settled. The exchange differences arising in these are recognised in the Note 2 consolidated financial statements in other comprehensive income. IFRS 3 states, among other things, that the net assets of the acquiree are assessed based on the fair value of assets and liabilities on the acquisition date. This fair value ACCOUNTING AND VALUATION POLICIES constitutes the Group’s acquisition cost. The cost of an acquisition is the fair value of the assets transferred as consideration and the assets arising or assumed on the transfer date. The revaluation of additional consideration is recognised in profit or The NIBE Group applies International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as enloss. The difference between the acquisition cost of shares in a subsidiary and the dorsed by the EU, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial calculated value of the net assets in the acquisition analysis is recognised as consolReporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1, ‘Supplementary accounting rules for idated goodwill. If the difference is negative, it is recognised directly in profit or loss. Groups’. Changes to the standards and interpretations which came into force in 2016 Acquisition-related expenses are recognised when they arise. have had no significant effect on the Group’s financial statements. In the preparation of the consolidated balance sheet, untaxed reserves have Several new standards and changes to interpretations of existing standards which been divided into a portion recognised as a deferred tax liability under the heading will come into force in the next financial year have not been applied in preparing the ‘Non-current liabilities and provisions’, and a residual portion which is recognised Group’s financial reports for the 2016 financial year. under profit brought forward. Accordingly, appropriations in the consolidated income statement involving changes in untaxed reserves have been omitted. The tax IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments portion of these changes is recognised along with the tax expense for the year in The categories for financial assets in IAS 39 are replaced by two categories in which the income statement, while the equity portion is included in profit for the year. The measurement is at fair value or amortised cost. Most of the rules for classification percentage rate used in calculating deferred tax in Swedish subsidiaries is 22.0 (22.0) and valuation of financial liabilities coincide with the previous rules in IAS 39. The percent; the rate used for foreign subsidiaries is the appropriate tax rate in each standard has been adopted by the EU and will enter force on 1 January 2018. NIBE country. The necessary provisions have been made for internal profits. deems that the standard will not have any significant impact on the Group’s financial Transactions with non-controlling interests which do not lead to loss of control reports. are recognised as equity transactions, i.e. transactions with owners in their role as owners. For acquisitions from non-controlling interests, the difference between fair IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers value on the consideration paid and the actual acquired proportion of the carrying The standard contains new principles for recognition of revenue and includes strictamount of the subsidiary’s net assets is recognised in equity. Gains or losses on diser requirements for disclosures. IFRS 15 has been adopted by the EU and will enter posal to non-controlling interests are also recognised in equity. force on 1 January 2018. NIBE is in the process of evaluating the effects of IFRS 15. However, this work has not yet progressed far enough to provide information on Associates and joint ventures quantitative effects. Companies in which NIBE Industrier AB has a long-term shareholding equivalent to between 20 and 50 percent of the votes, or those in which it has a significant influIFRS 16 Leases ence over operations and financial management in some other way are classified in For lessees, IFRS 16 means that the current division into operating and financial leasthe accounts as associates. Holdings in associates and joint ventures are recognised ing disappears and is replaced with a model in which assets and liabilities for all leasin the Group according to the equity method and in the parent according to the cost es must be recognised in the balance sheet. Leases with a low value and leases with a method. The equity method means that the participation is initially reported at the term of no more than 12 months are excluded from the requirement for recognition value at the time of acquisition and subsequently adjusted according to the Group’s in the balance sheet. Depreciation/amortisation must be recognised in the income participation in the associate’s profit. statement separately from interest expenses attributable to the lease liability. IFRS 16 Parent’s reporting of shares in subsidiaries enters force on 1 January 2019 and the EU is expected to adopt the standard in the fourth quarter of 2017. NIBE has not yet evaluated the effects of IFRS 16. The parent reports in accordance with the cost method and capitalises costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition. Contingent consideration is recognised at IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows probable outcome. Any future adjustments will affect the carrying amount of shares in the subsidiary. The change involves certain disclosures relating to changes in liabilities that are attributable to financing activities under IAS 7. The change will be applied when the anGroup contribution and shareholders’ contribution nual report for 2017 is prepared, provided it is adopted by the EU. The EU is expected Group contributions are recognised in accordance with the alternative rule in RFR2. to adopt the standard during the second quarter of 2017. Under the alternative rule, a group contribution that a parent receives from a subsidNone of the other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that have not yet entered force are iary is recognised as an appropriation in the parent. A group contribution made by expected to have any significant impact on the Group. the parent is recognised as an appropriation. A shareholders’ contribution made to a subsidiary is recognised as an increase in shares in the subsidiary. The value is then The parent applies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Rereviewed to establish whether impairment is required. porting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 ‘Accounting for legal entities’. Where the parent follows accounting policies which differ from those of the Group, this is specified Statement of cash flows in the relevant section in this note. The parent’s accounting policies are unchanged The statement of cash flows is drawn up in accordance with IAS 7. The indirect methcompared with the previous year, except for exchange differences on loans that od has been used, which means that net income is adjusted for transactions which hedge net investments in foreign currency, which in the parent are recognised in the have not given rise to receipts or disbursements during the period, as well as for any income statement instead of as previously in the fair value reserve. This change has income and expense attributable to cash flow from investing or financing activities. been applied retroactively. Cash and equivalents include cash and immediately accessible holdings in banks, as well as investments in securities, etc. Classification Non-current assets and non-current liabilities including any relevant provisions and allocations consist of items that are expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 Revenue recognition months after the closing date. Current assets and current liabilities including any Sales revenue is recognised with deductions for VAT, returns and discounts. Revenue relevant provision and allocations are items that are expected to be recovered or is generated almost exclusively from the sale of finished products. Sales revenue is paid within 12 months after the closing date. Any deviations from this principle are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to explained in the notes to the relevant items. the buyer, when the Group no longer has possession or control over the goods and when the revenue can be measured reliably. Consolidated financial statements This means that revenue is recognised when the goods are placed at the customThe consolidated financial statements cover the parent, NIBE Industrier AB (publ) ers’ disposal in accordance with the delivery terms arranged. and subsidiaries in which NIBE Industrier directly or indirectly holds more than 50% Interest revenue is recognised using the effective interest method. Dividend revenue is recognised when the right to receive the dividend is established. 72 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Segment reporting Leasing Operationally, the Group’s activities are divided into product group orientated BusiThe Group follows IAS 17 in respect of leasing. Leased assets are classified in accordness Areas due to the differences in risk and opportunities associated with the varance with the financial substance of the lease as finance leases or operating leases. ious product groups. The reports correspond to the internal reports submitted to Leased assets classified as finance leases are recognised as non-current assets, and company management. See Note 3. future lease charges as interest-bearing liabilities. For leased assets classified as operating leases, annual lease expenses are recognised as an operating expense in the Transactions with related parties income statement. Orders between Group companies are invoiced on commercial terms and at market prices. Internal profits arising on sales between Group companies have been elimiGoodwill and trademarks nated in their entirety. Parent sales refer in their entirety to sales to Group companies. Goodwill and Group surpluses in trademarks have arisen in connection with the During the financial year, products and services worth SEK 2 million (SEK 1 million) acquisition of business operations. Trademarks are measured at fair value on the were purchased from companies in which Melker Schörling has a significant influacquisition date. The period of use of the trademarks cannot be estimated with ence. certainty, since it is dependent on several unknown factors such as technical developments and market trends. NIBE applies IFRS 38, ‘Intangible Assets’, which means Other operating income that goodwill and assets with an indeterminate period of use are not amortised. An Gains on the sale of fixed assets, exchange differences, etc. are reported under this impairment test is, however, carried out annually, or more frequently if there are indiheading. See specification in Note 10. cations that an impairment may exist, in accordance with IAS 36, in which the Group’s carrying amounts on these assets are compared with the assets’ estimated value in Accounting of income tax use based on their discounted future cash flows. The assets are valued by segment, Income tax accounting has been carried out using IAS 12. i.e. by Business Area, which involves calculating future cash flows from each segment Reported income tax includes current tax, adjustments for the previous year’s curas a cash-generating unit. When the value in use is less than the carrying amount, the rent tax and changes in deferred tax. Income tax liabilities and tax assets are valued at carrying amount is impaired to the level of the value in use. Accordingly, the assets the nominal amount in accordance with the tax regulations and tax rates approved are recognised at cost less accumulated impairment. or announced, when there is good reason to believe these will be confirmed. The NIBE Group prepares budgets for one year at a time. This means that the cash For items reported in the income statement, the associated tax effects are also flows for the first year in the period of use of the assets are based on the budget reported in profit or loss. Tax is accounted for in other comprehensive income if the approved by the Board. Cash flows up until the end of the period of use are estimattax is attributable to items recognised in other comprehensive income. ed by extrapolating the cash flows based on the prepared budget and the assumed Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance sheet method for all organic sales growth, working capital requirements and gross profit margins over essential temporary differences that arise between the value in the accounts and the period of use. the value for tax purposes of assets and liabilities. Such temporary differences have – The organic sales growth for years 2–5 can be estimated with some degree of arisen mainly through Group surpluses. Deferred tax assets in respect of losses carcaution based on the Group’s historical experience. For subsequent years, a lowried forward or other future taxable deductions are recognised to the extent that it is er growth rate has been assumed, equivalent to the estimated long-term growth probable that the deduction can be utilised against future taxable surpluses. rate for the sector. Due to the connection between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax liabil– The requirement for working capital during the period of use is estimated with ity on untaxed reserves is reported in the accounts of the parent as part of untaxed the aid of the Group’s historical experience and the assumed organic sales reserves. growth. – The gross investment margin is based on the adopted budgets for each Currency hedging cash-generating unit. The NIBE Group applies IAS 39, Financial Instruments, in the hedge accounting of – The discount rate is calculated by weighting the assessed required return on eqcurrency forward contracts. The application of this standard means, among other uity plus the standard tax rate and the estimated long-term interest level on the things, that derivatives in the form of forward contracts are recognised at fair value Group’s interest-bearing liabilities. in the balance sheet, both initially and after subsequent remeasurement. To fulfil the requirements for hedge accounting, there is a clear link between the derivative Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and the hedged items. In addition, calculations of effectiveness and all hedging conThe heading ‘Other intangible assets’ refers to tenancy rights, patents, R&D costs, ditions are documented in accordance with the requirements set out in IAS 39. In licences, computer programs, market positions and similar assets, and the Group hedging cash flows, changes in the fair value of hedging instruments, to the extent considers that these assets have a limited useful life. that the hedging is effective, are recognised under other comprehensive income until Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost the underlying hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. Ineffective portions are exless accumulated amortisation/depreciation and any impairment. Expenditure on pensed immediately. For further information on currency derivatives, please see the improving the performance of the assets, above the original level, increases the carsection on ‘Transaction risks’ in Note 7 ‘Financial instruments and risk management’. rying amount of the assets. Expenditure on repairs and maintenance is recognised as an expense on a current basis. Price hedging Amortisation/depreciation according to plan is based on cost, which, after the deThe NIBE Group applies IAS 39, Financial Instruments, in the hedge accounting of duction of any recoverable amount, is allocated over the estimated useful life of the raw materials forward contracts. The application of this recommendation involves, asset. The following percentages have been applied to amortisation/depreciation: among other things, recognising derivatives in the form of forward contracts at fair value in the balance sheet, both initially and after subsequent revaluations. To fulfil the requirements for hedge accounting, there is a clear link between the derivative Market positions 7 – 11% and the hedged items. In addition, calculations of effectiveness and all hedging conOther intangible assets 5–33% ditions are documented in accordance with the requirements set out in IAS 39. For price hedging of raw materials flows, changes in the fair value of hedging instruments Buildings 2–7% are recognised, to the extent that the hedging is effective, under other comprehensive income until the underlying hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. IneffecLand assets 2–10% tive portions are expensed immediately. For further information on raw materials Machinery and equipment 10–33% derivatives, please see the section on ‘Hedge accounting’ in Note 7 ‘Financial instruments and risk management’. Fixtures and fittings 4% Hedging of net investment Hedging of net investment in foreign operations is accounted for in a way similar to Research and development costs that used for a cash flow hedge. The portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instruExpenditure on research activities is written off as it arises. ment which is assessed as effective hedging is recognised in other comprehensive The NIBE Group incurs expenses for product development within each Busiincome. The portion that is ineffective is recognised immediately in profit or loss. See ness Area. During the development phase, several criteria are used for recognising the section on ‘Translation risks’ in Note 7 ‘Financial instruments and risk managedevelopment projects as intangible assets. The expenditure is capitalised where it ment’. Following a rule change in the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recomis technically possible and the intention is to complete the asset either for use or mendation RFR 2 ‘Accounting for legal entities’ during the year, the parent no longer sale, where the asset is expected to generate future economic benefits, where it is recognises exchange rate fluctuations in loans to hedge net investments in the fair financially possible to complete the asset, and the cost of the asset can be measured value reserve. These exchange rate fluctuations are now recognised in net financial reliably. The expenditure is capitalised from the date on which all the above criteria items instead. are met. Other development expenditure which does not meet these conditions is recInterest rate risk hedging ognised as an expense as it arises. Development expenditure which has previously To hedge the risk of change in the fair value of a bond issued with a fixed interest been expensed is not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period. rate, the NIBE Group has made an interest swap via which the Group receives fixedAmortisation according to plan is based on cost and is apportioned over the estirate interest and pays variable-rate interest. The Group applies hedge accounting to mated useful life of the assets. the swap. The swap has thus been identified as a hedging instrument in a fair value hedge. The swap is recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. At the same time, Inventories the hedged item (the bond) is remeasured at fair value in relation to the hedged risk. IAS 2 is applied to the accounting of inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of Changes in value of both the interest swap and the hedged item are recognised in cost and current cost for raw materials, consumables and finished goods purchased, net financial items. For further information on interest rate hedging, please see Note and at manufacturing cost for goods produced. In no case have inventories been 7 ‘Financial instruments and risk management’. recognised at above net realisable value. Interest is not included in the inventory values. Deliveries between Group companies are invoiced at market prices. Internal gains in Group companies’ inventories are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. These eliminations affect operating profit. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 73 Financial instruments Financial liabilities measured at accrued cost NIBE classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: financial instruLoans and other financial liabilities, such as accounts payable, are included in this ments measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets held to maturity, category. This category also includes the present value of liabilities that will be paid accounts receivable and loans receivable, financial instruments available for sale, for minority shareholders’ shares in connection with application of AAM. Financial and financial liabilities measured at accrued cost. NIBE has raw materials derivatives liabilities are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs. Financial liafor hedge accounting. NIBE also has currency derivatives for hedge accounting. See bilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost, and any difference between ‘Currency hedging’ above. amount received and repayment amount is recognised in the income statement alThe purchase and sale of financial assets is recognised on the transaction date, located over the term of the loan, using the effective interest method. Non-current i.e. the date on which the Group undertakes to purchase or sell the asset. Financial liabilities have an expected term which is longer than one year, while current liabilinstruments are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs, which applies ities have an expected term of a maximum of one year. Accounts payable and other to all financial assets not recognised at fair value through profit or loss. Financial asoperating liabilities which are expected to have a short term are, therefore, normally sets measured at fair value through profit or loss are recognised initially at fair value, recognised at nominal value. while attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss. Financial assets are derecognised from the balance sheet when the right to receive the cash flow from Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss them has expired or has been transferred, and the Group has largely transferred all This category consists of two sub-categories: financial liabilities held for trading and risks and benefits associated with ownership. Financial assets measured at fair value other financial liabilities that the company placed in this category (the fair value through profit or loss and financial assets available for sale are recognised after the option); see the description above under ‘Financial assets measured at fair value acquisition date at fair value. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are valued through profit or loss’. The first category includes Group derivatives with negative initially at fair value and subsequently at accrued cost using the effective interest rate fair value, excluding derivatives that are identified and effective hedging instruments. method. The second category includes contingent considerations attributable to acquisitions The fair value of financial instruments which are not traded in an active market is made after 1 July 2014. Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. determined using valuation techniques. In this process, market information is used as far as possible when this is available, while company-specific information is used Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency as little as possible. If all the significant inputs required to establish the fair value of Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency are valued at the closing day rate. If an instrument are observable, the instrument is classified in level two. If one or more hedge accounting is applied, see the separate section above on currency hedging. of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified in level three. Impairment of non-financial assets NIBE recognises currency derivatives, interest rate derivatives, raw material deIntangible assets which have an indeterminate useful life, such as goodwill, are not rivatives, contingent considerations attributable to acquisitions made after 1 July amortised, but are subject to an annual impairment test. Property, plant and equip2014 and investments of excess liquidity in listed securities at fair value in the annual ment and intangible assets with a defined useful life are tested for impairment if report. there is some indication that the asset may have fallen in value. Impairment is recogWhen the fair value of an asset or liability is determined, the Group uses observanised in accordance with IAS 36. When considering the requirement for impairment, ble data as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value the Group determines the recoverable amount of the asset. The recoverable amount hierarchy based on inputs used in the valuation method as follows: is the higher of the net realisable value and value in use. In assessing the value in use, Level 1: according to prices quoted on an active market for identical instruments an estimate is made of future cash flows discounted to present value using a disLevel 2: based on directly or indirectly observable market data that is count factor before tax. A weighted average cost of capital is used in this calculation. not included in level 1 An impairment is recognised whenever the carrying amount of the asset or its Level 3: based on inputs that are not observable in the market cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount. For NIBE, cash-generating Listed securities are valued according to level 1 while currency derivatives, interest units are equivalent to Business Areas. Impairments are recognised in profit or loss. rate derivatives and raw material derivatives are valued according to level 2. Contingent considerations concerning acquisitions of participations that resulted in a busiEquity ness combination come under level 3 in the valuation hierarchy. NIBE also holds financial assets classified as financial assets available for sale. The Transaction expenses directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or opassets in this category consist of unlisted shares, the fair value of which cannot be tions are recognised net after the deduction of tax outside profit or loss as a deducdetermined with sufficient reliability. For that reason, they are valued at cost less any tion from the proceeds of the issue. impairment applied. Provisions At the end of every reporting period, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that an impairment need exists for a financial asset or group of financial IAS 37 is applied to the accounting of provisions. Provisions are recognised when assets, such as the cessation of an active market or the likelihood that a debtor is unthe Group has or may be regarded as having an obligation due to events that have able to fulfil his obligations. Impairment testing of accounts receivable is described occurred, and when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic below. benefits will be required to settle the obligation. A further requirement is that it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount to be paid. Contingent considLoans receivable and accounts receivable erations for shares and participations acquired before 1 July 2014 are recognised as provisions. Guarantee risk provision is recognised on the date of sale of the products Loans receivable and accounts receivable are non-derivative financial assets. They to which the guarantee refers, and is estimated based on the cost history of equivahave fixed or determinable payments and are not quoted on an active market. They lent obligations. are included in current assets apart from items with a due date more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets. Accounts Defined-benefit pensions receivable are recognised at the amount which is expected to be received after the Defined benefit pension plans are plans for payment after retirement from employdeduction of uncertain receivables, assessed individually. The expected term of acment other than defined contribution plans. counts receivable is short, for which reason the value is recognised as the nominal The Group’s net obligations in respect of defined benefit plans are calculated amount without discounting. A provision for impairment of accounts receivable is separately for each plan through making an estimate of future payment which the made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not receive the full amount employee earned through employment in both current and previous periods This due under the original terms of the receivable. Significant financial difficulties on the payment is discounted to present value. The discount rate is the interest rate at part of the debtor, the likelihood that the debtor will go into liquidation or undergo the end of the period on an investment grade corporate bond, including mortgage financial reconstruction, as well as missed or delayed payments, are to be treated as bonds, with a term corresponding to the Group’s pension obligations. When there is indicators that an account receivable may have an impairment requirement. no active market for this type of corporate bond, the market interest rate for governFinancial assets available for sale ment bonds with an equivalent term is used instead. The calculation is carried out by a qualified actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method. In addition, the fair value Non-derivative financial assets, where the asset is identified as available for sale or of any plan assets at the end of the reporting period is calculated. not classified in any of the other categories, are included in the category of finanThe Group’s net obligations consist of the present value of the obligations less the cial assets available for sale. Assets in this category are measured continuously at fair value of plan assets adjusted for any asset limitations. fair value with fair value changes recognised in other comprehensive income to the All the components included in the cost for the period for a defined benefit plan extent that they do not involve an impairment that is assessed as significant or longare recognised in profit or loss. term. NIBE holds financial assets classified as financial assets available for sale. The The revaluation effects consist of actuarial gains and losses. The revaluation efassets in this category consist of unlisted shares, the fair value of which cannot be fects are recognised in other comprehensive income. determined with sufficient reliability. For that reason, they are valued at cost less any When the calculation leads to an asset for the Group, the carrying amount of the impairment applied. asset is limited to the lower of the plan surplus and the asset limitation calculated using the discount rate. The asset limitation consists of the present value of the future Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss economic benefits in the form of reduced future contributions or cash repayment. In This category consists of two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and calculating the present value of future repayments or payments made, any minimum other financial assets that the company initially placed in this category (per the fair funding requirements are considered. value option). Financial instruments in this category are valued on an ongoing basis Changes or reductions of a defined benefit plan are recognised at the earliest at fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. The first subgroup when the change in the plan or the reduction comes into force or when the compaincludes derivatives with positive fair value, excluding derivatives that are identified, ny recognises related reorganisation costs and compensation on termination. The effective hedging instruments and short-term investments of excess liquidity in listed changes/reductions are recognised in profit or loss. securities. The special employer’s contribution is a component of the actuarial assumptions, and is recognised, for that reason, as a part of net obligations/net assets. The part of 74 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 the special employer’s contribution which is calculated based on the Pension ObliImpairment tests for goodwill and Group-wide surpluses in trademarks gations Vesting Act is recognised, for the sake of simplicity, as an accrued cost rather Every year, the Group tests whether any impairment is required for goodwill and than as part of net obligations/net assets. Group-wide surpluses in trademarks in accordance with the accounting policy deThe tax on returns from pension funds is recognised on a current basis in profit scribed under ‘Impairment’. The estimates which must be made and the effect of or loss for the period to which the tax relates, and, for that reason, is not included in these estimates are shown under ‘Goodwill and brands/trademarks’. Additional inthe liability calculation. With funded plans, the tax is charged to the return on plan formation, including a sensitivity analysis, is contained in Note 17. assets and is recognised in other comprehensive income. For unfunded or partially unfunded plans, the tax is charged to profit for the year. Provisions Significant estimates and assumptions for accounting purposes Further information in respect of provisions for the year for the guarantee risk reserve is shown in Note 27. Provisions for the present value of post-employment benefit Company management makes estimates and assumptions about the future that afobligations are dependent on several factors determined on the basis of actuarial fect carrying amounts. Consequently, the carrying amount in these cases is rarely assumptions. Every change in these assumptions will affect the carrying amount equivalent to fair value. Estimates and assumptions which may involve a risk of sigof the post-employment benefit obligations. Significant assumptions relating to nificant adjustments in carrying amounts during the next financial year are reported post-employment benefit obligations are based partly on prevailing market condibelow. tions. Additional information, including a sensitivity analysis, is contained in Note 26. Useful life of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Additional considerations Group management determines the estimated useful life, and thereby the associatThe fair value of additional considerations is normally based on expected earnings ed amortisation/depreciation of the Group’s intangible assets and property, plant trends in acquired operations in future years. Additional considerations include both and equipment. These estimates are based on historical knowledge of the period of contingent considerations for already acquired shares and considerations for future use of equivalent assets. The period of use and the estimated recoverable amount acquisitions of minority shareholders’ shares in connection with the application of are tested for every accounting date and adjusted as necessary. AAM. If the earnings trend differs from the expected trend, this will affect the carrying amount of additional considerations and, thus, the NIBE Group’s performance. Note 3 INFORMATION ABOUT THE BUSINESS AREAS CLIMATE SOLUTIONS ELEMENT STOVES ELIMINATIONS TOTAL (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales Total net sales 11,092 9,326 5,046 4,497 1,968 1,795 – 2,758 – 2,375 15,348 13,243 Internal net sales – 1,504 – 1,295 – 794 – 739 – 202 – 143 2,500 2,177 – – External net sales 9,588 8,031 4,252 3,758 1,766 1,652 – 258 – 198 15,348 13,243 Earnings Profit per Business Area 1,396 1,209 473 342 223 206 – – 2,092 1,757 Unallocated costs – 112 – 57 Operating profit 1,980 1,700 Financial income 107 57 Financial expenses – 216 – 143 Tax for the year – 495 – 377 Net profit for the year 1,376 1,237 Other information Assets 18,103 13,107 4,294 3,360 3,274 1,814 – 12,328 – 10,834 13,343 7,447 Unallocated assets 12,681 11,157 Total assets 26,024 18,604 Liabilities 2,357 1,468 828 738 387 265 – 976 – 182 2,596 2,289 Unallocated liabilities 11,299 8,887 Total liabilities 13,895 11,176 Investments 239 232 125 118 42 34 Depreciation 362 311 122 114 59 56 SEK 2,248 million (SEK 2,062 million) of consolidated net sales relates to customers in the Swedish market, and SEK 3,940 million (SEK 2,452 million) relates to customers in the US. Of the Group’s non-current assets, SEK 949 million (SEK 900 million) is in Sweden, SEK 7,614 million (SEK 4,037 million) in the US and Mexico and SEK 5,234 million (SEK 5,026 million) in Germany and Switzerland. Unallocated costs refer primarily to the cost of acquisitions and to Group-wide costs in the parent. The parent’s sales refer in their entirety to sales to Group companies. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 75 Note 4 INCOME STATEMENT CLASSIFIED BY TYPE OF COST Group Parent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net sales 15,348 13,243 7 8 Change in inventories 81 – 58 – – Other operating income 155 127 – – 15,584 13,312 7 8 Raw materials and consumables – 6,312 – 5,416 – – Other external costs – 2,892 – 2,496 – 38 – 46 Personnel costs – 3,858 – 3,220 – 26 – 24 Depreciation – 542 – 480 – – Operating profit 1,980 1,700 – 57 – 62 Note 5 REMUNERATION OF AUDITORS Group 2016 2015 KPMG Other Total KPMG Other Total (in millions of SEK) auditors Group auditors Group Audit engagements 8 2 10 8 1 9 Other audit-related fees 2 – 2 2 – 2 Tax consulting 1 3 4 1 2 3 Other services 18 4 22 2 5 7 Total 29 9 38 13 8 21 During the year, the parent paid audit expenses of SEK 1 million (SEK 1 million) and expenses for other services of SEK 12 million (SEK 2 million). Note 6 PERSONNEL COSTS, AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AND NUMBERS OF MEN AND WOMEN IN SENIOR POSITIONS Salaries and other remuneration Board and senior executives (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Parent 16 15 SalaRetireSalaRetireSubsidiaries 3,164 2,564 ries ment ries ment and benefit and benefit Group total 3,180 2,579 other conother contri(in thousands of SEK) remutriburemubutions nerations neration tion 2016 2015 Hans Linnarson, Chair 550 – 450 – Social of which Social of which Helene Richmond 275 – 225 – security pension security pension contribuexpenses contribuexpenses Georg Brunstam 275 – 225 – tions tions Eva-Lotta Kraft 275 – 225 – (in millions of SEK) Anders Pålsson 275 – 225 – Parent 10 3 9 3 Gerteric Lindquist, CEO 4,896 960 4,100 959 Subsidiaries 611 155 529 126 Other senior Group total 621 158 538 129 executives 4 (4) individuals 14,107 5,171 12,987 3,769 SEK 1 million (SEK 1 million) of the parent’s pension costs relate to the CEO. The parent’s outstanding pension obligations for the Board of DiGroup total 20,653 6,131 18,437 4,728 rectors and the CEO amount to SEK 5 million (SEK 5 million). The corresponding amount for the Group is SEK 5 million (SEK 5 million). The Group’s outstanding pension obligations for the previous Board of Directors and CEO amount to SEK 1 million (SEK 1 million). 76 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for senior Salaries and other remuneration, excluding social security contribuexecutives tions, by country for the Board, CEO and other senior executives and In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting, other employees the following principles applied in 2016 and the Board proposes that the 2016 2015 same principles continue to apply for 2017 with certain changes. The company shall offer competitive remuneration on market terms to Board, Other Board, CEO Other attract and retain personnel. CEO and emand senior employRemuneration shall be payable as fixed salary, variable salary, retiresenior ployexecutives ees ment benefit contributions or other benefits, such as a company car. execuees (in millions of SEK) tives Directors’ fees shall not be payable to members of the Board who are employed in the Group. Parent 13 5 10 6 The period of notice from the company for the CEO shall be six Subsidiaries in Sweden 8 470 8 439 months. The CEO shall have the right to severance pay equivalent to Norway – 137 – 127 twelve months’ salary. Other senior management personnel shall receive Finland – 155 – 148 salary during a period of notice which varies from 6–12 months. Denmark1) (2 and 2) – 333 – 328 All senior management personnel shall have pension benefits correFrance – 25 – 23 sponding to the ITP occupational pension plan, section 2, up to 30 income Germany1) (1 and 1) – 193 – 179 base amounts for social security purposes. For portions of salary above Poland – 170 – 152 this, a premium of a fixed 30% is payable in accordance with the principles Czech Republic1) (1 and 1) – 78 – 70 in the defined contribution ITP plan, section 1. There shall be no special Italy – 17 – 11 agreements for senior management personnel to retire before reaching The Netherlands – 26 – 25 the official retirement age while still receiving a certain proportion of their Belgium – 2 – 2 salaries. As an incentive, senior executives will be entitled to a variable salary UK1) (3 and 5) – 131 – 130 component that is payable if set targets are achieved. The variable compoSpain – 20 – 19 nent shall be restricted to four months’ salary (in 2016, it was restricted to Russia – 10 – 12 three months’ salary, which is the only change proposed). The possibility Austria – 27 – 24 also exists to receive an additional month’s salary on condition that this Switzerland1) (2 and 1) – 382 – 380 additional payment plus another monthly salary paid as a variable bonus China – 89 – 90 is used to purchase NIBE shares. A further condition for entitlement to Malaysia – 1 – 1 receive this additional month’s remuneration is that the shares thus purAustralia – 7 – 6 chased are retained for at least three years. Under normal circumstances, Mexico – 151 – 124 shares acquired in this way shall be purchased on one occasion each year Canada – 7 – – in February/March and the purchase shall be subject to the relevant inUSA1) (0 and 3) – 725 – 266 sider trading regulations. The CEO shall not participate in any incentive Group total 21 3,161 18 2,562 programme. The Board may depart from these guidelines, if there are reasons for 1) of which bonus in millions of SEK doing so in an individual case. Agreement on severance pay Average number of employees and gender distribution Applies only to the CEO in the parent, for whom an agreement has been 2016 2015 reached on severance pay amounting to one year’s salary. Number Of Number Of Pensions of emwhich of emwhich ployees men ployees men The MD/CEO has an individual pension insurance arrangement that corresponds to ITP, section 2 (supplementary pensions for salaried employParent 8 4 9 5 ees). For 2016, the premium corresponded to 14% of salary up to 30 inSubsidiaries in Sweden 1,283 1,061 1,207 1,000 come base amounts (a statistical amount used in Sweden for calculating Norway 230 191 216 176 benefits, etc.). For salary to the MD/CEO paid in excess of this, a premium Finland 426 337 428 339 payment of 30% was made that corresponds to the defined contribution Denmark 570 421 576 429 ITP plan, section 1. Other senior executives in the Group have retirement France 48 37 48 38 benefits that correspond to the ITP plan, section 2, for that portion of their Germany 498 416 493 415 salary up to 30 income base amounts. For salary in excess of this, a premium of 30% is paid in accordance with the defined contribution ITP plan, Poland 2,114 1,099 1,917 806 section 1. An exception is made in the case of the director of one of the Czech Republic 736 392 649 356 Business Areas, who, in his capacity as Managing Director, has an individuItaly 55 33 40 24 al pension arrangement with premiums that correspond to those of other The Netherlands 52 43 52 43 senior executives. Under the Group’s policy, no further pension premium Belgium 1 1 1 1 payments are made if employment continues after the age of 65. UK 369 288 359 275 Spain 65 48 63 45 Russia 155 112 157 110 Austria 51 38 46 33 Gender distribution in the Group’s Board/senior management team Switzerland 485 399 485 388 China 958 520 956 509 2016 2015 Malaysia 18 6 19 6 Number Of Number Of Australia 17 10 19 9 which which Mexico 2,217 932 2,231 991 men men Canada 55 46 – – Board of Directors 6 4 6 4 USA 1,458 973 574 382 Senior management Group total 11,869 7,407 10,545 6,380 team Parent 2 2 2 2 Subsidiaries 3 3 3 3 Group 5 5 5 5 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 77 Note 7 Translation risks The term ‘translation risks’ refers to the risk of exchange losses on the translation of the income statements and balance sheets of foreign subFINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT sidiaries to Swedish krona, the Group’s presentation currency. To minimise translation risks, assets are financed, where possible, in the same The NIBE Group’s financial assets consist primarily of accounts receivacurrency; this means that changes in exchange rates on the borrowings ble and bank balances. The financial liabilities consist primarily of credits are recognised in other comprehensive income. At year-end 2016, the from credit institutions, bond loans and accounts payable. The various Group held net assets in foreign currencies as stated below, allowing for financial risks which may be associated with these assets and liabilities, financing. Net assets also include assets other than those classed as fiand the NIBE Group’s method of managing the risks are described below. nancial instruments. The parent’s risk management is in line with the Group’s risk management practice, unless otherwise specified below. Currency Net assets Currency hedging 2016 AUD 57 – 57 Currency risks CAD 547 – 547 The term ‘currency risks’ refers to the risk that exchange rate fluctuations CHF 4,656 – 932 3,724 may have a negative effect on the Group’s performance and position. NIBE is exposed to currency risks both through operating business transactions CZK 405 – 38 367 in various currencies and through the fact that the Group has operations in DKK 920 – 101 819 different currency zones. These risks can be divided into transaction risks EUR 881 – 40 841 and translation risks. GBP 822 – 113 709 Transaction risks HKD 48 – 48 The term ‘transaction risks’ refers to the risk of exchange losses on operatMYR 3 – 3 ing business transactions in foreign currency through, for example, an acMXN 73 – 73 count receivable in a foreign currency falling in value due to fluctuations in NOK 545 – 108 437 the exchange rate in that currency. As part of the Group’s currency hedging PLN 474 – 474 policy, operating sales and purchases which take place in foreign currencies or are linked to changes in foreign currencies, must be hedged under RUB 128 – 128 a rolling 12-month plan within the range 60–100% of the estimated flow. USD 6,027 – 536 5,491 The degree of hedging of future flows determines where in the range the Total 15,586 – 1,868 13,718 figure is to lie. During 2016 the Group’s flows in foreign currencies were as shown below. The term ‘flow’ refers to flows in currencies other than local If the Swedish krona falls in value by 1% against the named currencies, the currency. The term ‘weakening’ refers to an unhedged fall in the value of Group’s equity would be strengthened by SEK 137 million (SEK 88 million). the Swedish krona. If the Swedish krona rises in value by 1% against the named currencies, the reverse applies. Without currency hedging through financing in the same currency, the corresponding amount would have been SEK 156 milGroup Parent lion (SEK 110 million). CurrenNet flow Weakening Net flow Weakening cy in (+) / out (-) by 1% in (+) / out (-) by 1% Currency Net assets Currency hedging 2015 CHF 26 – –1 – CHF 4,505 – 891 3,614 CZK –6 – – – CZK 360 – 67 293 DKK 5 – – – DKK 895 – 105 790 EUR 137 1 –3 – EUR 1,031 – 38 993 GBP 88 1 – – GBP 852 – 565 287 NOK 145 1 – – HKD 54 – 54 PLN – 95 –1 – – MYR 2 – 2 USD 121 1 –3 – MXN 96 – 96 CNY –3 – – – NOK 470 – 93 377 HKD – 15 – – – PLN 387 – 387 RUB 5 – – – RUB 91 – 91 MXN – 210 –2 – – USD 2,285 – 492 1,793 Total 198 –7 Total 11,028 – 2,251 8,777 At the end of 2016, the Group had outstandOutstanding contracts on the closing date, net sales (+) / purchases (-) ing currency forward contracts in accordance Average Closing Unrealised Unrealised CurFlow Flow Flow Flow with the adjacent table. The total value of rency forward rate day rate gain/loss gain/loss the contracts (calculated as the net value of Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 purchase and selling contracts in each currency) translated to SEK at the closing day CHF – – 1 1 8.84 8.91 – – rate amounts to SEK 536 million (SEK 258 DKK 3 10 3 6 1.30 1.29 – – million). EUR 6 7 7 9 9.55 9.57 – 1 The difference between the total amounts GBP 1 1 1 1 11.06 11.18 – –9 of the contracts translated to SEK using the contract rate and the total amounts of the NOK 18 20 17 22 1.07 1.05 1 – contracts translated to SEK using the closing PLN –2 –1 –1 –1 2.17 2.17 – – day rate at the end of 2016 represents an unUSD 8 1 1 1 8.40 9.10 –7 1 realised exchange loss of SEK 11 million. HKD 10 19 12 11 1.18 1.17 – – The item ‘Other receivables’ in the conMXN – 74 – 42 – 28 – 0.47 0.44 –5 –5 solidated balance sheet includes derivatives with positive fair values of SEK 17 million Total – 11 – 12 (SEK 8 million). The item ‘Other liabilities’ inOf which taken to income on the closing date –8 1 cludes derivatives with negative fair values of Of which recognised in other comprehensive income on the closing SEK 20 million (SEK 21 million). date –3 – 13 78 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 The parent’s risk consists of the risk of exchange rate fluctuations on loans and Gains and losses on financial instruments provisions in foreign currency for the acquisition of foreign subsidiaries. Exchange rate fluctuations on these are recognised in net financial items. At the Group Parent end of the year, the parent had loans and provisions in foreign currency as listed (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 below. Exchange gains and exchange Currency 2016 2015 losses on currency derivatives used for hedge accounting CAD 543 – recognised in profit or loss – 20 – 24 – – CHF 864 817 recognised in other CZK 70 67 comprehensive income 10 3 9 –9 DKK 100 105 Gains and losses on raw mateEUR 281 39 rials derivatives used in hedge GBP 504 565 accounting NOK 108 93 – recognised in profit or loss –6 – 11 – – USD 127 492 – recognised in other Total 2,597 2,178 comprehensive income 9 –5 – – If the Swedish krona rises in value by 1% against the named currencies, Exchange gains and exchange the parent’s equity is strengthened by SEK 26 million (SEK 22 million). If losses in other financial assets and liabilities 27 26 –1 24 the Swedish krona falls in value by 1% against the named currencies, the reverse applies. Change in value, bond loans – 20 –2 – 20 –2 Change in value, interest swap 16 6 16 6 Bad debt losses on accounts Credit risks receivable – 11 – 16 – – The term ‘credit risk’ refers to the risk that a counterparty may not fulTotal 5 – 23 4 19 fil its obligations. In operations where goods or services are supplied against later payment, client credit losses cannot be wholly avoided. To The items recognised above as gains and losses are exchange gains, exminimise these risks, annual credit assessments are carried out on major change losses and losses on credit granted. Interest has not been included. creditors. The normal credit period is 30 days. There are regional variaThe Group’s reporting system does not permit the allocation of exchange tions with both shorter and longer credit periods. Security is not normalgains and exchange losses to other classes of financial assets and liabilly held for receivables. ities. It is our opinion that the Group has an effective credit monitoring process which has meant that the Group has not so far been adversely affected by bad debt losses of any significance. Provisions have been made after individual assessment of overdue receivables. Overdue accounts receivable (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Accounts receivable, wholly or partly impaired – overdue by less than 3 months 37 41 – overdue by more than 3 months 32 38 Accounts receivable which have not been impaired – overdue by less than 3 months 519 279 – overdue by more than 3 months 61 35 Total overdue accounts receivable 649 393 Provision for bad debt losses – 39 – 47 Total accounts receivable overdue but not impaired 610 346 Provision for bad debt losses (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Provisions brought forward 47 49 Provisions in acquired companies 6 – Established bad debt losses – 16 – 11 Reversed provisions – 11 –3 Provisions for the year 12 14 Translation differences 1 –2 Provisions carried forward 39 47 Profit for the year has been charged with SEK 11 million (SEK 16 million) in respect of bad debt losses which have arisen in the Group’s receivables. Since the Group is a net borrower from the bank, the credit risk in respect of the Group’s bank balances is insignificant. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 79 Fair value of financial instruments Fair value may deviate from carrying amount, partly because of changes in market interest rates. Since all borrowing on the reporting date is at variable interest rates, fair value is assessed as the same as the carrying amount for the Group’s financial liabilities. Fair value is assessed as the same as the carrying amount for non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities such as accounts receivable and accounts payable No instruments were offset in the balance sheet. All instruments are recognised at their gross value. For a detailed account of the measurement process, see Note 2. In respect of other financial assets and liabilities in the Group, the carrying amounts represent a reasonable approximation of their fair value. Assets 31 Dec 2016 Loan receivAssets Assets Derivatives Non-fiTotal Fair ables and held for available measured at fair nancial carrying value (in millions of SEK) accounts sale for sale value assets amount receivable Intangible assets – – – – 14,716 14,716 Property, plant and equipment – – – – 2,820 2,820 Participations in associates and joint ventures – – – – 18 18 Securities held as non-current assets – – 7 – – 7 7 Deferred tax assets – – – – 322 322 Other long-term receivables 21 – – 21 – 42 42 Inventories – – – – 2,799 2,799 Accounts receivable 2,424 – – – – 2,424 2,424 Tax assets – – – – 146 146 Other receivables 88 – – 19 – 107 107 Prepaid expenses and accrued income – – – – 121 121 Investments in securities, etc. – 160 – – – 160 160 Cash and equivalents 2,342 – – – – 2,342 2,342 Total assets 4,875 160 7 40 20,942 26,024 Assets 31 Dec 2015 Loan receivAssets Assets Derivatives Non-fiTotal Fair ables and held for available measured at nancial carrying value (in millions of SEK) accounts sale for sale fair value assets amount receivable Intangible assets – – – – 10,209 10,209 Property, plant and equipment – – – – 2,117 2,117 Participations in associates and joint ventures – – – – 10 10 Securities held as non-current assets – – 6 – – 6 6 Deferred tax assets – – – – 428 428 Other long-term receivables 18 – – 5 – 23 23 Inventories – – – – 2,115 2,115 Accounts receivable 1,627 – – – – 1,627 1,627 Tax assets – – – – 77 77 Other receivables 82 – – 8 – 90 90 Prepaid expenses and accrued income – – – – 107 107 Investments in securities, etc. – 347 – – – 347 347 Cash and equivalents 1,448 – – – – 1,448 1,448 Total assets 3,175 347 6 13 15,063 18,604 Equity and liabilities 31 Dec 2016 Financial liabilities Derivatives Financial liabilNon-fiTotal Fair valued at accrued used for ities valued at nancial carrying value cost hedge acfair value via initems amount (in millions of SEK) counting come statement Equity – – – 12,129 12,129 Provisions – – – 2,362 2,362 Non-current liabilities* 6,211 – 48 – 6,259 6,259 Current liabilities to credit institutions 2,678 – – – 2,678 2,678 Accounts payable 1,140 – – – 1,140 1,140 Advance payments from customers 28 – – – 28 28 Tax liabilities – – – 89 89 Other liabilities 281 20 32 – 333 333 Accrued expenses and deferred income 1,006 – – – 1,006 1,006 Total equity and liabilities 11,344 20 80 14,580 26,024 * Of which SEK 1,621 million refers to loans in foreign currencies to hedge net investment in foreign operations 80 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Equity and liabilities 31 Dec 2015 Financial liabilities Derivatives Financial liabilities Non-fiTotal Fair valued at accrued used for valued at fair nancial carrying value cost hedge acvalue via income items amount (in millions of SEK) counting statement Equity – – – 7,428 7,428 Provisions – – – 1,912 1,912 Non-current liabilities* 6,779 – 32 – 6,811 6,811 Current liabilities to credit institutions 164 – – – 164 164 Accounts payable 835 – – – 835 835 Advance payments from customers 18 – – – 18 18 Tax liabilities – – – 91 91 Other liabilities 584 29 – – 613 613 Accrued expenses and deferred income 732 – – – 732 732 Total equity and liabilities 9,112 29 32 9,431 18,604 * Of which SEK 2,169 million refers to loans in foreign currencies to hedge net investment in foreign operations Hedge accounting Interest rate risks In 2016, hedge accounting was applied in accordance with IAS 39 in relaInterest rate risk is the risk that changes in market interest rates will have a tion to: negative impact on cash flow or the fair value of financial assets and liabil– Cash flow hedging through currency derivatives for future receipts and ities. Since all borrowing in the NIBE Group apart from bonds is at variable disbursements in foreign currencies. See Note 2 for details. interest, the Group is exposed only to cash flow risk in respect of financial – The bond interest rate was swapped from fixed to variable. The swap borrowing. The interest rate on the Group’s only bond has been swapped is a fair value hedge, and the fair value on the balance sheet date was from fixed to variable, which also means that it is exposed to cash flow risk. SEK 22 million. The Group’s interest-bearing liabilities at year-end amounted to SEK – Price hedging of raw materials through raw materials derivatives. See 8,536 million. The average interest rate was 1.4%. A change in the interest Note 2 for details. At the end of 2016, outstanding contracts maturing rate of 1% on constant liabilities would have an impact on Group profit of in Q1 2017 totalled SEK 19 million, with SEK 2 million in unrealised SEK 85 million. gains that are recognised among other receivables. The NIBE Group’s policy is that the fixed interest period for loans shall, – Hedge accounting through financing net investments in foreign operaas far as possible, balance the commitment period of the incoming cash tions in foreign currency, which means that exchange-rate fluctuations flows. on such loan liabilities are recognised directly in other comprehensive The parent’s interest-bearing liabilities at year-end amounted to SEK income provided that there is a net asset in the consolidated balance 4,254 million. A change in the interest rate of 1% on constant liabilities sheet to hedge. would affect parent profit by SEK 43 million. For information on the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income, see the income statements on pages 58 and 68. Financing risks The term ‘financing risk’ refers to the risk that difficulties may arise in fiCapital risk nancing the Group’s operations, thus leading to an increase in costs in the The term ‘capital risk’ refers to the risk that the Group’s ability to continue short and long terms. doing business may be inhibited due to a shortage of capital. The Group The Group’s consolidated cash flow is good, and is expected to remain assesses the day-to-day risk based on the equity/assets ratio, calculated so in the future. This is of material significance in enabling necessary inas recognised equity as a percentage of total assets. The target is that the vestments to be made and other obligations to be fulfilled. The Group also equity/assets ratio should not fall below 30%. Over the most recent fivehas an aggressive policy in relation to the acquisition of other companies’ year period, the equity/assets ratio has averaged 41.9%. The Group can business operations. The policy is for annual growth of 20%. In the long counteract any shortage of capital through new issues or reductions in term, at least half of this growth should be organic. dividends. Capital is defined in the NIBE Group as total equity as recogIn individual years, the total capital requirement may exceed internal nised in the balance sheet (see pages 62 and 69). The covenants set by the cash flow. It is anticipated that there will be no difficulty in financing this Group’s external creditors were met by good margins. capital requirement and that this will not give rise to abnormal expense. This can be achieved partly through the traditional banking system and partly through the stock market. The amounts given in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Group 31 Dec 2016 Due date structure of financial liabilities (in millions of SEK) Nominal amount Total < 1 year 1–2 years 3–4 years > 5 years Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 3,535 3,689 – 3,689 – – Bond loans 1,922 2,011 – – 2,011 – Other non-current liabilities 30 30 – 30 – – Additional considerations 804 804 32 13 35 724 Current liabilities to credit institutions 2,678 2,696 2,696 – – – Accounts payable 1,140 1,140 1,140 – – – Advance payments from customers 28 28 28 – – – Derivatives used for hedge accounting 20 20 20 – – – Other current liabilities 281 281 281 – – – Accrued expenses and deferred income 1,006 1,006 1,006 – – – Financial leasing liabilities 4 4 2 2 – – Total financial liabilities 11,448 11,709 5,205 3,734 2,046 724 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 81 Group 31 Dec 2015 Due date structure of financial liabilities (in millions of SEK) Nominal amount Total < 1 year 1–2 years 3–4 years > 5 years Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 4,875 5,001 – 3,670 1,331 – Bond loans 1,902 2,030 – – 422 1,608 Other non-current liabilities 2 2 – 2 – – Additional considerations 369 369 337 – 32 – Current liabilities to credit institutions 164 165 165 – – – Accounts payable 835 835 835 – – – Advance payments from customers 18 18 18 – – – Derivatives used for hedge accounting 29 29 29 – – – Other current liabilities 247 247 247 – – – Accrued expenses and deferred income 732 732 732 – – – Financial leasing liabilities 4 4 1 3 – – Total financial liabilities 9,177 9,432 2,364 3,675 1,785 1,608 Parent 31 Dec 2016 Due date structure of financial liabilities (in millions of SEK) Nominal amount Total < 1 year 1–2 years 3–4 years > 5 years Non-current liabilities to Group companies 2,332 2,356 – 2,356 – – Bond loans 1,922 2,011 – – 2,011 – Additional considerations 40 40 – – – 40 Current liabilities to Group companies 158 160 160 – – – Accounts payable 5 5 5 – – – Other current liabilities 1 1 1 – – – Accrued expenses and deferred income 13 13 13 – – – Total financial liabilities 4,471 4,586 179 2,356 2,011 40 Parent 31 Dec 2015 Due date structure of financial liabilities (in millions of SEK) Nominal amount Total < 1 year 1–2 years 3–4 years > 5 years Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 2,752 2,838 – 1,507 1,331 – Non-current liabilities to Group companies 1,003 1,059 – 1,059 – – Bond loans 1,902 2,030 – – 422 1,608 Additional considerations 335 335 335 – – – Current liabilities to credit institutions 98 99 99 – – – Current liabilities to Group companies 2 2 2 – – – Accounts payable 3 3 3 – – – Derivatives used for hedge accounting 9 9 9 – – – Other current liabilities 2 2 2 – – – Accrued expenses and deferred income 21 21 21 – – – Total financial liabilities 6,127 6,398 471 2,566 1,753 1,608 82 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Note 8 Note 12 LEASING FINANCIAL INCOME Group Parent During the year, Group expenses relating to finance leases totalled SEK (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 1 million (SEK 1 million). Leasing charges amounting to SEK 130 million Interest income, Group (SEK 124 million) in respect of operating leases in the Group were excompanies – – – 20 pensed. The parent has no leases. The value of the Group’s agreed future leasing charges, relating to leases for which the remaining term exceeds Interest income, other 4 5 – 1 one year, is distributed as follows: Exchange gains 97 42 169 68 Other financial income 2 6 – 4 Finance leases Operating Total 103 53 169 93 leases PayInterest Present Nominal (in millions of SEK) ments value value Note 13 Due for payment within 1 year 2 – 2 113 Due for payment within FINANCIAL EXPENSES 2–5 years 2 – 2 251 Group Parent Due for payment within (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 6 years or more – – – 78 Interest expense, Group Total 4 – 4 442 companies – – 37 1 Interest expense, other 111 109 15 82 Exchange losses 94 30 170 44 Non-current assets held through finance leases Other financial expense 11 4 4 – (in millions of SEK) Cost Depreciation Carrying amount Total 216 143 226 127 Equipment and fittings 4 1 3 Note 14 Note 9 APPROPRIATIONS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Group Parent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 A total of SEK 409 million (SEK 350 million) is included under the heading Group contributions received – – 772 119 ‘Cost of goods sold’ to cover the cost of research and development. Note 15 Note 10 TAX OTHER OPERATING INCOME Group Parent Group Parent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Current tax for the year 360 424 1 6 Profit on sale of 14 3 – – Current tax attributable to non-current assets preceding years 2 1 2 – Exchange gains 91 79 – – Deferred tax 133 – 48 141 – Other 50 45 – – Total 495 377 144 6 Total 155 127 – – Tax in respect of items recognised in other comprehensive income Group Parent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note 11 Defined-benefit pensions –6 –2 – – PROFIT FROM PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES Market valuation of currency forward contracts 2 2 1 –2 Group Parent Market valuation of raw mate(in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 rials forward contracts 2 –1 – – Dividend – – 646 853 Currency hedge – – 82 – – 81 Impairment of participaCurrent tax attributable to tions in subsidiaries – – – 62 – 10 exchange differences 76 – – – Total – – 584 843 Current tax attributable to foreign net investment – 21 – – – Total 53 – 83 1 – 83 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 83 Difference between the Group’s tax expense and tax expense based on Tax rate current tax rate The applicable tax rate was calculated based on the tax rate that applies Group Parent to the parent, which is 22.0% (22.0%). See also page 59. (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Pre-tax profit 1,871 1,614 1,246 868 Temporary differences Tax at current rate 412 355 274 191 Temporary differences arise if there is a difference between the carrying Non-deductible expenses 41 28 11 3 amount and the taxation value of the assets and liabilities. Temporary Non-taxable earnings – 25 – 25 – – differences in respect of the following items have resulted in deferred tax Dividends from subsidiaries – – – 143 – 188 liabilities and deferred tax assets. Adjusted tax for preceding years 2 1 2 – Deficit deductions not carried Deferred tax assets forward 10 2 – – Group Parent Change in tax rate for deferred tax – –8 – – (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Effect of foreign tax rates 55 24 – – Deficit deductions 20 21 – – Recognised tax expense 495 377 144 6 Hedging of net investment in foreign operations – 142 – 141 Due dates for deficit deductions which have not been brought forward Provisions for pension obligations 74 62 – – Accumulated deficit deduction which is not offset by recognised deferred tax assets amounted to SEK 268 million (SEK 259 million) for the Group. The Provisions for guarantee obligations 144 122 – – due dates for deficit deductions are within the following intervals: Other 84 81 2 3 Group Total 322 428 2 144 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Due for payment within 1–5 years 23 29 Due for payment within 6–10 years 74 84 Due for payment in 10 years or more 4 12 No due date 167 134 Total 268 259 Deficit Hedging Provisions Provisions Other Total deductions net investment for pension for guarantee (in millions of SEK) in foreign operations obligations obligations Amount at start of year 21 142 62 122 81 428 Acquired companies – – – 2 9 11 Recognised as income –3 – 142 3 10 – 10 – 142 Recognised in other comprehensive – – 6 – –3 3 income Translation difference 2 – 3 10 7 22 Amount at end of year 20 – 74 144 84 322 Deferred tax liabilities Note 16 Group Parent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 MARKET POSITIONS Untaxed reserves 33 33 – – Temporary differences in Group non-current assets 969 782 – – (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Other 61 34 – – Cost Total 1,063 849 – – Opening cost 1,499 1,411 Investment for the year 806 11 Translation differences 131 77 Untaxed Temporary Other Total Closing accumulated cost reserves differences in 2,436 1,499 non-current (in millions of SEK) assets Amortisation Amount at start of year 33 782 34 849 Opening amortisation 387 258 Acquired companies 1 133 26 160 Amortisation for the year 156 122 Recognised as income – –8 –1 –9 Translation differences 30 7 Recognised in other Closing accumulated amortisation 573 387 comprehensive income – – 1 1 Closing carrying amount 1,863 1,112 Translation difference –1 62 1 62 ‘Market positions’ refers to the valuation of cash flows from identified Amount at end of year 33 969 61 1,063 customer relationships. Amortisation for the year is recognised as a selling expense in consolidated profit or loss. Deferred tax liabilities in respect of temporary differences attributable to investments in subsidiaries are not recognised, since the parent can control the date and time of the reversal of the temporary differences. 84 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Note 17 The assumed organic growth rate is the same for all cash-generating units. Apart from the most recent years, which have been subject to economic turbulence, all units have a history of organic growth well above the assumed GOODWILL AND TRADEMARKS growth rate. As in preceding years, the annual impairment test did not identify any Brands and trademarks Group impairment need. (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Cost Sensitivity analysis Opening cost 1,237 1,177 A sensitivity analysis has been carried out in respect of the significant asInvestment for the year 557 – sumptions applied in the impairment test. The following assumptions have been used to test sensitivity. Translation differences 109 60 Closing accumulated cost 1,903 1,237 – Organic growth in years 2–5 is two percentage points lower. – The gross investment margin is two percentage points lower. Amortisation – The requirement for working capital is two percentage points higher. – The discount rate is two percentage points higher. Amortisation for the year 2 – Closing accumulated amortisation 2 – None of the above assumptions resulted in an impairment need for any of the Group’s cash-generating units. Closing carrying amount 1,901 1,237 Carrying amount per Business Area NIBE Climate Solutions 1,641 1,133 NIBE Element 49 24 Note 18 NIBE Stoves 211 80 Total 1,901 1,237 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Rights of tenancy, patents, development costs, computer programs, licences, etc. Goodwill Group Group (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Cost Opening cost 7,621 7,179 Cost Investment for the year 2,406 137 Opening cost 673 587 Translation differences 629 305 Cost in acquired companies 36 – Investment for the year 96 84 Closing accumulated cost 10,656 7,621 Sales and retirements – 11 –3 Amortisation Reclassifications 22 4 Opening amortisation 82 84 Translation differences 26 1 Translation differences 3 –2 Closing accumulated cost Closing accumulated amortisation 85 82 842 673 Closing carrying amount 10,571 7,539 Amortisation Carrying amount per Business Area Opening amortisation 349 278 NIBE Climate Solutions 7,999 5,999 Sales and retirements – 10 –2 NIBE Element 1,379 1,082 Amortisation for the year 86 79 NIBE Stoves 1,193 458 Reclassifications 22 –1 Total 10,571 7,539 Translation differences 11 –5 Closing accumulated amortisation 458 349 Impairment tests Impairment Impairment testing involves the calculation of value in use. The policies Opening impairment 3 3 adopted by the Group are set out in Note 2, under the heading ‘Goodwill and Closing accumulated impairment 3 3 trademarks’. Closing carrying amount 381 321 Assumptions of the gross investment margins for each cash-generating unit are based on the approved budgets. Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets are recognised within the following functions: Significant assumptions in 2016 (2015) Group Cash-generating unit 2016 2015 (in millions of SEK) Assumptions NIBE NIBE NIBE Cost of goods sold 69 70 Climate Element Stoves Selling expenses 3 1 Solutions Administrative expenses 14 8 Growth rate, years 2–5, % 5.0 (5.0) 5.0 (5.0) 5.0 (5.0) Total 86 79 Growth rate, year 6 and later, % 2.0 (2.0) 2.0 (2.0) 2.0 (2.0) Other intangible assets consist primarily (SEK 257 million) of capitalised Working capital requirement development costs. The Group’s principles for capitalisation are described for organic growth, % 13.0 (13.0) 15.0 (15.0) 18.0 (18.0) in Note 2. Capitalised development costs are amortised during estimated Discount rate before tax, % 6.5 (6.4) 7.7 (7.1) 7.1 (7.1) useful lives. In 2016, these were between 4 and 6 years. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 85 Note 19 Note 21 LAND AND BUILDINGS CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS Group Group (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Cost Cost Opening cost 1,798 1,777 Opening cost 101 76 Cost in acquired companies 346 3 Expenses during the year 111 88 Investment for the year 43 31 Re-allocations during the year – 89 – 66 Sales and retirements – 40 –1 Translation differences 2 3 Reclassifications 26 4 Closing accumulated cost 125 101 Translation differences 68 – 16 Closing accumulated cost 2,241 1,798 Amortisation Note 22 Opening amortisation 607 559 Amortisation for the year 61 62 SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES Sales and retirements – 22 –1 Prop. of No. of Carrying Translation differences 12 – 13 equity shares amount in Closing accumulated amortisation 658 607 millions of SEK Impairment Impairment for the year 5 – ABK AS 50% 250 183 Closing accumulated impairment 5 – Akvaterm Oy 100% 2,000 65 Closing carrying amount 1,578 1,191 Air-Site AB 50% 1,000 55 Backer BHV AB 100% 37,170 186 of which, land 271 216 Backer EHP Inc. 100% 100 217 Closing carrying amount, land and buildings in Sweden 343 294 Druzstevni z. Drazice strojírna sro 100% 7 199 Eltwin A/S 100% 500 125 JSC Evan 100% 8,631 131 Jevi A/S 100% 1 30 Note 20 Kaukora Oy 100% 1,100 135 Lotus Heating Systems A/S 100% 1,076,667 50 MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT Loval Oy 100% 768 40 METRO THERM A/S 100% 3,400 181 Group Parent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 NIBE AB 100% 400,000 153 Cost NIBE Climate Solutions GmbH 100% 100 0 Opening cost 2,748 2,573 1 1 NIBE Energy Systems WFE AB 100% 100 3,785 Cost NIBE Energy Systems France SAS 100% 100 0 in acquired companies 236 3 – – NIBE Stoves Canada Corp. 100% 100 543 Investment for the year 192 206 – – NIBE Treasury AB 100% 15,000 11 Sales Nordpeis AS 100% 12,100 142 and retirements – 75 – 39 – – SAN Electro Heat A/S 100% 13 18 Reclassifications 41 58 – – Schulthess Group AG 100% 10,625,000 4,860 Translation differences 97 – 53 – – Springfield Wire de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 100% 10,000 42 Closing accumulated cost 3,239 2,748 1 1 Stovax Heating Group Ltd 100% 198,900 491 TermaTech A/S 100% 500 62 Depreciation Varde Ovne A/S 100% 4,009 11 Opening depreciation 1,920 1,786 1 1 Wiegand S.A. de C.V. 100% 15,845,989 21 Sales and – 69 – 33 – – 11,736 retirements Depreciation for the year 238 217 – – Reclassifications – 22 – – – Translation differences 51 – 50 – – Closing accumulated depreciation 2,118 1,920 1 1 Impairment Opening impairment 3 3 – – Impairment for the year 1 – – – Closing accumulated impairment 4 3 – – Closing carrying amount 1,117 825 – – 86 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Shares owned via subsidiaries Proportion No. of Cost of capital shares Opening cost 8,466 8,400 Koax Corp. 100.00% 50 Investment for the year 3,399 86 KVM-Genvex A/S 100.00% 2,500 Reduced considerations – 11 – 20 Lund & Sörensen AB 100.00% 1,000 Closing accumulated cost 11,854 8,466 Lund & Sørensen A/S 100.00% 500 Lund & Sørensen Electric Heating Equip100.00% Impairment ment Accessory Co Ltd Opening impairment 56 46 Merker AG 100.00% 2,500 Impairment for the year 62 10 METRO THERM AB 100.00% 1,000 Closing accumulated impairment 118 56 Meyer Vastus AB, Oy 100.00% 20 Closing carrying amount 11,736 8,410 Motron A/S 100.00% 1,000 myUpTech AB 100.00% 1,000 Naturenergi IWABO AB 100.00% 1,000 NIBE Beteiligungenverwaltungs GmbH 100.00% Shares owned via subsidiaries Proportion No. of NIBE-BIAWAR Sp. z o.o. 100.00% 83,962 of capital shares NIBE Energietechniek B.V. 100.00% 180 ait-deutschland GmbH 100.00% NIBE Energy Systems Inc 100.00% 100 ait-värmeteknik-sverige AB 100.00% 1,000 NIBE Energy Systems Ltd 100.00% 100 ait Schweiz AG 100.00% 250 NIBE Energy Systems Oy 100.00% 15 Askoma AG 100.00% 200,000 NIBE Foyers France S.A.S. 100.00% 370 Askoma SDN BHD 100.00% 500,000 NIBE Kamini LLC 100.00% ATE-Electronics S.r.l. 100.00% NIBE Systemtechnik GmbH 100.00% Backer Alpe S. de R.L. de C.V. 100.00% Norske Backer AS 100.00% 12,000 Backer Calesco France SARL 100.00% 12,429 Northstar Poland Sp. z o.o. 100.00% 3,134 Backer ELC AG 100.00% 34,000 Omni Control Technology Inc. 100.00% 200,000 Backer Elektro CZ a.s. 100.00% RPN-Hall Oy 100.00% 1,000 Backer Eltop s.r.o. 100.00% Schulthess Maschinen AG 100.00% 7,500 Backer Facsa S.L. 100.00% 34,502 Schulthess Maschinen GmbH 100.00% Backer Fer s.r.l. 100.00% Shel NIBE Manufacturing Co Ltd 100.00% 1,000 Backer Heating Technologies Co. Ltd 100.00% Sinus-Jevi Electric Heating B.V. 100.00% 180 Backer Heating Technologies Inc 100.00% 100 Skarabrae AB 100.00% 500 Backer Hotwatt Inc. 100.00% 100 Stovax Ltd 100.00% 190,347 Backer HTV Co. Ltd 100.00% 100 Stovax D1 Ltd 100.00% 1,000 Backer Marathon Inc. 100.00% 100 Stovax Group Ltd 100.00% 397,800 Backer OBR Sp. z o.o. 100.00% 10,000 Structurgruppen AB 100.00% 1,000 Backer-Springfield Dongguan Co. Ltd 100.00% Termorad Sp. Z.o.o. 100.00% 80,000 Backer-Wilson Elements Pty Ltd 51.00% ThermaClime Technologies Inc. 100.00% 10,000 Backer Wolff GmbH 100.00% Vølund Varmeteknik A/S 100.00% 1,000 ClimaCool Corp. 100.00% 1,000 WaterFurnace International Hong Kong Ltd 100.00% 27,300,000 Climate Control Group Inc. 100.00% 10,000 WaterFurnace International Inc. 100.00% 100 ClimateCraft Inc. 100.00% 1,000 WaterFurnace Renewable Energy Corp. 100.00% 14,666,765 ClimateMaster Inc. 100.00% 1,000 Danotherm Electric A/S 100.00% 1,000 Eltwin Sp. z.o.o. 100.00% 100 E. Braude Corrosion Control Ltd 100.00% 5,000 E. Braude (London) Ltd 100.00% 80,000 Enertech Global LLC 100.00% Fireplace Products Australia Pty Ltd 100.00% 1 Fireplace Products US Inc. 100.00% 1,000,000 FPI Fireplace Products International Ltd. 65.00% 901,498 FPI US Holding Inc. 100.00% 50,000 Gazco Ltd 100.00% 30,000 Heatrod Elements Ltd 100.00% 68,000 Heatron Inc. 100.00% 1,200,000 Høiax AS 100.00% 1,000 Hyper Engineering Pty Ltd 100.00% 25,000 Hyper Technology and Trading Comp. 100.00% 1,000 International Environmental Corp. 100.00% 300 KKT Chillers Inc. 100.00% 1,000 Kuldemesteren AS 100.00% 1,000 KNV Energietechnik GmbH 100.00% NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 87 Details of subsidiaries Corporate ID Registered office Country ABK AS 959 651 094 Oslo Norway Akvaterm Oy 1712852-9 Kokkola Finland Air-Site AB 556725-5780 Lindome Sweden ait-deutschland GmbH HRB 2991 Bayreuth Germany ait-värmeteknik-sverige AB 556936-5033 Helsingborg, Sweden Sweden ait Schweiz AG CH-100 3 017 337-2 Altishofen Switzerland Askoma AG CHE 101 048 895 Thunstetten Switzerland Askoma SDN BHD 489344-W Johor Bahru Malaysia ATE-Electronics S.r.l. 9518750964 Giaveno Italy Backer Alpe S. de R.L. de C.V. BAL0805266BA Mexico City Mexico Backer BHV AB 556053-0569 Hässleholm Sweden Backer Calesco France SARL 91379344781 Lyon France Backer EHP Inc. 99-0367868 Murfreesboro USA Backer ELC AG CH-400 3 033 814-4 Aarau Switzerland Backer Elektro CZ a.s. 60469617 Hlinsko Czech Republic Backer ELTOP s.r.o. 44795751 Miretice Czech Republic Backer Facsa S.L. B-62.928.361 Aiguafreda Spain Backer FER s.r.l. REA: 173478 Sant´Agostino (Ferrara) Italy Backer Heating Technologies Co. Ltd 440301503227017 Shenzhen China Backer Heating Technologies Inc 36-4044600 Chicago USA Backer Hotwatt Inc. 81-4435368 Wilmington USA Backer HTV Co. Ltd 1101832398 Tan Kim Vietnam Backer Marathon Inc. 47-3075187 Del Rio USA Backer OBR Sp. z o.o. 8358936 Pyrzyce Poland Backer-Springfield Dongguan Co. Ltd 441900400000302 Dongguan City China Backer-Wilson Elements Pty Ltd ACN 100 257 514 Burwood Australia Backer Wolff GmbH HRB 27026 Dortmund Germany ClimaCool Corp. 73-1409358 Oklahoma City USA Climate Control Group Inc. 73-1415062 Oklahoma City USA ClimateCraft Inc. 73-1207959 Oklahoma City USA ClimateMaster Inc. 93-0857025 Oklahoma City USA Danotherm Electric A/S 10 12 60 61 Rødovre Denmark DZD Strojírna s.r.o. 45148465 Benátky nad Jizerou Czech Republic E. Braude Corrosion Control Ltd 1282499 Sandhurst UK E. Braude (London) Ltd 585474 Sandhurst UK Eltwin A/S 13 99 24 44 Risskov Denmark Eltwin Sp. z.o.o. 394767 Stargard Poland Enertech Global LLC 45-2301710 Greenville USA Fireplace Products Australia Pty Ltd 117 303 554 Hallam Australia Fireplace Products US Inc. 601374460 Blaine USA FPI Fireplace Products International Ltd. BC0161829 Richmond Canada FPI US Holding Inc. 1998-000339453 Cheyenne USA Gazco Ltd 2228846 Exeter UK Heatrod Elements Ltd 766 637 London UK Heatron Inc. 43-1126014 Leavenworth USA Høiax AS 936 030 327 Fredrikstad Norway Hyper Engineering Pty Ltd ACN 148 010 520 Victoria Australia Hyper Technology and Trading Comp. 1939789 Hong Kong China International Environmental Corp. 73-0754306 Oklahoma City USA JSC Evan 1065260108517 Nizhniy Novgorod Russia Jevi A/S 12 85 42 77 Vejle Denmark Kaukora Oy 0138194-1 Raisio Finland KKT Chillers Inc. 83-0486747 Elk Grove USA KNV Energietechnik GmbH 78375h Schörfling Austria Koax Corp. 73-1284158 Oklahoma City USA Kuldemesteren AS 995 267 942 Oslo Norway KVM-Genvex A/S 21387649 Haderslev Denmark Lotus Heating Systems A/S 26 11 04 75 Langeskov Denmark Loval Oy 0640930-9 Lovisa Finland Lund & Sörensen AB 556731-8562 Mölndal Sweden Lund & Sørensen A/S 25 64 75 99 Vejle Denmark Lund & Sørensen Electric Heating Equipment Accessory Co Ltd 120000400007673 Tianjin China 88 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Details of subsidiaries Corporate ID Registered office Country Merker AG CH-400 3 3009 571-7 Zürich Switzerland METRO THERM AB 556554-1603 Kalmar Sweden METRO THERM A/S 20 56 71 12 Helsinge Denmark Meyer Vastus AB, Oy 0215219-8 Monninkylä Finland Motron A/S 26 41 80 97 Risskov Denmark myUptech AB 556633-8140 Markaryd Sweden Naturenergi IWABO AB 556663-0355 Bollnäs Sweden NIBE AB 556056-4485 Markaryd Sweden NIBE Beteiligungenverwaltungs GmbH 295717d Vienna Austria NIBE-BIAWAR Sp. z o.o. 50042407 Bialystok Poland NIBE Climate Solutions GmbH HRB 733204 Celle Germany NIBE Energietechniek B.V. 20111793 Willemstad The Netherlands NIBE Energy Systems France SAS 501 594 220 Reyrieux France NIBE Energy Systems Inc 99 03 68 191 Wilmington USA NIBE Energy Systems Ltd 5764 775 Sheffield UK NIBE Energy Systems Oy 9314276 Helsinki Finland NIBE Energy Systems WFE AB 556982-3262 Markaryd Sweden NIBE Foyers France S.A.S. 491 434 965 Lyon France NIBE Kamini LLC 1105 0100 00303 Dubna Russia NIBE Stoves Canada Corp. BC1093578 Richmond Canada NIBE Systemtechnik GmbH HRB 5879 Celle Germany NIBE Treasury AB 556108-0259 Markaryd Sweden Nordpeis AS 957 329 330 Lierskogen Norway Norske Backer AS 919 799 064 Kongsvinger Norway Northstar Poland Sp. z o.o. 570844191 Trzcianka Poland Omni Control Technology Inc. 04-3142926 Whitinsville USA RPN-Hall Oy 1712854-5 Kokkola Finland SAN Electro Heat A/S 42 16 59 13 Graested Denmark Schulthess Group AG CH-020 7 000 720-2 Zürich Switzerland Schulthess Maschinen AG CH-020 3 923 223-4 Zürich Switzerland Schulthess Maschinen GmbH FN 125340z Vienna Austria Shel NIBE Manufacturing Co Ltd 866 531 Hong Kong China Sinus-Jevi Electric Heating B.V. 37106129 Medemblik The Netherlands Skarabrae AB 559064-4281 Markaryd Sweden Springfield Wire de Mexico S.A. de C.V. SWM710722KW3 Nuevo Laredo Mexico Stovax Ltd 1572550 Exeter UK Stovax D1 Ltd 4826958 Exeter UK Stovax Group Ltd 7127090 Exeter UK Stovax Heating Group Ltd 8299613 Exeter UK Structurgruppen AB 556627-5870 Kungsbacka Sweden TermaTech A/S 27 24 52 77 Hasselager Denmark Termorad Sp. Z.o.o. 0000542990 Radom Poland ThermaClime Technologies Inc. 73-1553910 Oklahoma City USA Varde Ovne A/S 21 55 49 79 Gram Denmark Vølund Varmeteknik A/S 32 93 81 08 Videbæk Denmark WaterFurnace International Hong Kong Ltd 1775445 Hong Kong China WaterFurnace International Inc. 35-18737995 Fort Wayne USA WaterFurnace Renewable Energy Corp. BC 100 6504 Toronto Canada Wiegand S.A. de C.V. RFC WIE850624H79 Nuevo Laredo Mexico NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 89 Note 23 PARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Parent (in millions of SEK) Name Corporate ID Registered Prop. of No. of Dividend Carrying number office capital shares amount Produktionskonsult Väst AB 556713-5206 Gothenburg 50.0% 600 4 7 Total 4 7 Group (in millions of SEK) Name Corporate ID number Registered Prop. of No. of Profit Proportion of Carrying office capital shares participation equity amount Produktionskonsult Väst AB 556713-5206 Gothenburg 50.0% 600 4 5 10 Shanghai Canature Fireplace Prod9131 0115 7721 1410 Shanghai, China 25.0% – – 8 8 ucts Ltd. 65H WaterFurnace Shenglong HVACR 3302 0040 0074 4449 Ningbo, China 49.0% – – 2 – Climate Solutions Ltd. Total 4 15 18 The holdings in WaterFurnace Shenglong HVACR Climate Solutions and Shanghai Canature Fireplace Products are joint ventures. Group Note 24 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Book value at start of year 10 30 OTHER NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES Book value in acquired companies 8 – Dividend received –4 –2 Group Parent Share in profits for the year 4 4 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Impairment for the year – – 22 Market value, interest swap 21 5 21 5 Book value at end of year 18 10 Other 21 18 – – Total 42 23 21 5 Note 25 EQUITY A 4:1 split was implemented during the year following a resolution at the former directors and managers with around 47% of the votes, the other Annual General Meeting. Following a resolution at an extraordinary genMelker Schörling, with around 20% of the votes. At the end of 2016 the eral meeting held on 3 October, a preferential rights issue was also implecompany had no outstanding convertible loans or options that could risk mented where the company’s shareholders were offered the opportunity diluting the share capital. The situation was the same in the preceding to buy shares at a price of SEK 48 per share. The issue injected SEK 3,024 year. million into the company less issue expenses of SEK 16 million. Because of the issue, the number of shares increased by 63,002,070 and totalled Proposal for appropriation of profits 504,016,622 at year-end, distributed as follows. The financial resources at the disposal of the Annual Quota Class A Class B Total General Meeting are: value shares shares (SEK) Profit brought forward SEK 1,696 million At start of year 0.625 13,060,256 97,193,382 110,253,638 Share premium reserve SEK 4,751 million Redesignation 0.625 – 125,000 125,000 – Net profit for the year SEK 1,102 million Split 4:1 0.15625 38,805,768 291,955,146 330,760,914 Total SEK 7,549 million New share issue 0.15625 7,391,566 55,610,504 63,002,070 At end of year 0.15625 59,132,590 444,884,032 504,016,622 The Board of Directors proposes issuing a dividend of SEK 0.88 per share for a total pay-out of SEK 444 million, and that SEK 7,105 million be carried Because of the discount granted on the share price in connection with the over, of which SEK 4,751 million to the share premium reserve and SEK issue, all historical ratios for the NIBE share were recalculated for the di2,354 million to profit brought forward. lution effect. Each A share entitles the holder to ten votes at the Annual The Board of Directors considers that the proposed dividend is reasonGeneral Meeting, and each B share to one vote. For A shares, which repreable as regards the requirements that the nature, scope and inherent risks sent approximately 57% of the votes, the company’s articles of association of the business operations make of the size of equity and the company’s prescribe an obligation to give existing shareholders first refusal of any and the Group’s consolidation needs, liquidity and financial position. This shares offered for sale. All shares carry the same entitlement to dividends. must be seen against the background of the information provided in the The company has two shareholders who each hold more than 10% of Annual Report. Before proposing this dividend, the Board has paid due the votes, one of them a group of shareholders consisting of present and consideration to the investments planned. 90 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Note 26 Fund2016 UnfundTotal ed ed PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS (SEK m) plans plans Reconciliation of pension obligations ITP occupational pension plan secured via Alecta Present value at start of year 939 97 1,036 The commitments for retirement pensions and family pensions for white-colCosts related to employment 37 6 43 lar staff in Sweden are secured through an insurance policy with Alecta. In acInterest on obligations 8 3 11 cordance with a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR Contributions from employees 24 – 24 10, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the 2016 financial year, Pensions paid – 51 –3 – 54 the company has not had access to the kind of information that would enaActuarial gains (–), losses (+) during the ble it to recognise this plan in the accounts as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP period 38 7 45 occupational pension plan secured through an insurance policy with Alecta Adjustments – 10 – – 10 is, therefore, recognised as a defined-contribution plan. The contributions for the year for pension insurance policies taken out with Alecta amounted Translation differences 55 – 55 to SEK 12 million (2015: SEK 9 million). Alecta’s surplus can be distributed to Present value at end of year 1,040 110 1,150 the policyholders and/or the insured. At year-end 2016 Alecta’s surplus in the Reconciliation of plan assets form of the collective funding ratio was 149% (2015: 153%). The collective Fair value at start of year 675 – 675 funding ratio consists of the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of Interest income on plan assets 6 – 6 the insurance commitments calculated in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial commitments, which is not in conformity with IAS 19. Actuarial gains (+), losses (–) during period 17 – 17 Contributions paid in 25 – 25 Defined-benefit pensions Contributions from employees 24 – 24 The Group has defined-benefit pensions chiefly for its Swiss and SwedAdjustments – 10 – – 10 ish companies. Swiss pension plans are funded, which means that assets are held to cover pension commitments. The assets are managed by Pensions paid – 51 – – 51 fund managers which are separate legal entities. For Swedish compaTranslation differences 39 – 39 nies, calculations and payments are handled through PRI Pensionstjänst Fair value at end of year 725 – 725 AB. This is unfunded. Consequently, no plan assets are held for securing Provisions for pensions retirement benefits. As far as other countries are concerned, Norway has Retirement benefit obligations, present value 1,040 110 1,150 defined-benefit pensions which are calculated and paid by the employer. The estimated present value of the Group’s defined-benefit pension obliPlan assets, fair value – 725 – – 725 gations has been based on the actuarial assumptions set out in the table Provisions for pensions 315 110 425 below. Pension costs recognised in profit or loss Costs related to employment 37 6 43 Actuarial assumptions 2016 SwitzerSweden Interest on obligations 8 3 11 land Interest income on plan assets –6 – –6 Discount rate on 1 January 0.85% 3.00% Pension costs, defined-benefit plans 39 9 48 Discount rate on 31 December 0.35% 2.25% Pension costs, defined-contribution plans 110 Expected salary increases 1.00% 3.00% Total pension costs in profit or loss 158 Expected inflation 0.60% 2.00% Pension costs recognised in other comprehensive income Actuarial assumptions 2015 SwitzerSweden Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) in respect of: land – changed financial assumptions 66 10 76 Discount rate on 1 January 1.25% 3.00% – changed demographic assumptions – 18 –4 – 22 Discount rate on 31 December 0.85% 3.00% – experience-based adjustments – 10 1 –9 Expected salary increases 1.00% 3.00% – difference between actual yield and yield per discount rate on plan assets – 17 – – 17 Expected inflation 0.00% 2.00% – special employer’s contribution – 2 2 A sensitivity analysis has been carried out in respect of the significant Pension costs in other comprehensive income 21 9 30 assumptions applied, and the impact that changed assumptions would have on the Group’s pension liabilities is shown in the table below. Reconciliation of provisions for pensions Opening balance 264 97 361 Sensitivity analysis Pension costs, defined-benefit plans 39 9 48 Actuarial differences 21 7 28 Impact on pension liabilities (in millions of SEK) of an increase of a decrease Pensions paid – –3 –3 Contributions paid in – 25 – – 25 Discount rate – 79 + 65 Translation differences 16 – 16 0.5 percentage points Closing balance 315 110 425 Expected salary increases 0.25 percentage points –5 –5 For 2017, expected pension costs for defined-benefit plans are 41 4 45 Expected inflation 0.25 percentage points + 48 –2 Composition of plan assets Shares 42 Defined-contribution plans Interest-bearing securities 561 These plans primarily cover retirement pensions, disability pensions and Property, etc. 122 family pensions. The premiums are paid continuously throughout the year Total plan assets 725 by each Group company to a separate legal entity, such as an insurance Parent company. The size of the premium is based on salary. The pension costs The parent’s recognised pension liabilities amount to SEK 7 million (SEK for the period are included in the income statement. 6 million) and are calculated in accordance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and not IAS19. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 91 2015 Note 27 FundUnfundTotal ed ed OTHER PROVISIONS (in millions of SEK) plans plans Reconciliation of pension obligations GuaranOther Total ParPresent value at start of year 897 91 988 tee Group ent Costs related to employment 36 4 40 (in millions of SEK) risk reserve Settlement, previous years – 24 – – 24 Interest on obligations 12 3 15 Amount on 31 Dec 2014 398 602 1,000 452 Contributions from employees 24 – 24 Provisions during the year 106 42 148 28 Benefits paid – 67 –2 – 69 Amount utilised during Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) during the period 11 – 11 the year – 56 – 57 – 113 – 10 Adjustments – 10 – – 10 Reversals in provisions –8 – 89 – 97 – 20 Reclassifications – – 232 – 232 – 232 Translation differences 60 1 61 Translation differences 8 – 12 –4 – 20 Present value at end of year 939 97 1,036 Amount on 31 Dec 2015 448 254 702 198 Reconciliation of plan assets Provisions in acquired Fair value at start of year 649 – 649 companies 95 4 99 – Interest income on plan assets 9 – 9 Provisions during the year 121 47 168 15 Actuarial gains (+), losses (–) during period 3 – 3 Amount utilised during the year – 60 – 19 – 79 –2 Contributions paid in 24 – 24 Reversals in provisions – 16 –7 – 23 –3 Contributions from employees 24 – 24 Reclassifications – – 32 – 32 – Pensions paid – 67 – – 67 Translation differences 35 4 39 – Adjustments – 10 – – 10 Amount on 31 Dec 2016 623 251 874 208 Translation differences 43 – 43 Fair value at end of year 675 – 675 Guarantees are normally provided for one to three years, but longer guarantee periods may be provided in individual cases. The guarantee risk reProvisions for pensions serve is calculated based on the cost history of these commitments. Other Retirement benefit obligations, present value 939 97 1,036 provisions consist primarily of provisions for additional considerations. It Plan assets, fair value – 675 – – 675 is anticipated that these will be largely settled within three years. In certain Provisions for pensions 264 97 361 cases, there is no upper limit to the amount of the additional considerations. Most are recognised in the parent’s balance sheet. Pension costs recognised in profit or loss Costs related to employment 12 4 16 Interest on obligations 12 3 15 Interest income on plan assets –9 – –9 Note 28 Pension costs, defined-benefit plans 15 7 22 Pension costs, defined-contribution plans BOND LOANS 107 Total pension costs in profit or loss 129 Group Parent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Pension costs recognised in other comprehensive income Loan of SEK 750 million at a fixed rate of 1.8% that falls Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) in respect of: due in May 2020 772 752 772 752 – changed financial assumptions 45 – 45 Loan at a variable rate of – difference between actual yield and yield Stibor + 130 points that falls according to discount rate on plan assets –3 – –3 due in May 2020 750 750 750 750 – experience-based adjustments – 34 – – 34 Loan at a variable rate of Pension costs in other comprehensive 8 – 8 Stibor + 120 points that falls income due in June 2019 400 400 400 400 Total 1,922 1,902 1,922 1,902 Reconciliation of provisions for pensions Opening balance 248 91 339 Pension costs, defined-benefit plans 15 7 22 Actuarial differences 8 – 8 Pensions paid – –2 –2 Contributions paid in – 24 – – 24 Translation differences 17 1 18 Closing balance 264 97 361 Composition of plan assets Shares 22 Interest-bearing securities 544 Property, etc. 109 Total plan assets 675 92 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Note 29 Note 33 OTHER LIABILITIES, NON-INTEREST-BEARING PLEDGED ASSETS AddiOther Total ParGroup Parent tional Group ent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 (in millions of SEK) considerations Floating charges 136 14 – – Real estate mortgages 49 46 – – Amount on 31 Dec 2014 – 2 2 – Receivables 70 62 7 5 Entered as liabilities during the year Total pledged assets 255 122 7 5 32 – 32 Amount on 31 Dec 2015 32 2 34 – Liabilities in acquired – 26 26 – companies Note 34 Entered as liabilities during the year 731 – 731 40 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Reversed during the year – 22 – – 22 – Translation differences 31 2 33 – Group Parent Amount on 31 Dec 2016 772 30 802 40 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Pension commitments not The size of the additional considerations is dependent on the future profit entered under liabilities or trends of the acquired units. The amounts specified are based on expect2 2 – – provisions ed profit trends. In certain cases, there is no upper limit to the amount Contingent liabilities on of the additional considerations. The expected amounts are revalued on behalf of other Group a current basis. For 2016, these revaluations had no net impact on the – – 4,321 690 companies Group’s profit. Liabilities recognised for the parent concern expected additional considerations in their entirety. Total contingent liabilities 2 2 4,321 690 Soil contamination exists at three of the Group’s production plants in Denmark and the Czech Republic. No contingent liabilities were recognised for this as it is deemed extremely unlikely that any of this could entail signifiNote 30 cant costs if the Group were held liable. The parent’s contingent liabilities mainly concern surety to credit instituLIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS tions for subsidiaries’ borrowings. Since one of the Group’s credit agreements expires in 2017, the liabilities covered by the agreement were recognised as current liabilities. Current liabilities to credit institutions also include overdraft facilities. Credit facilities granted in the Group totalled SEK 465 million (SEK 517 million). The Group’s overdraft facility was reduced during the year by SEK 52 million. The parent has no overdraft facility. Note 31 OTHER LIABILITIES There are estimated additional considerations of SEK 32 million (SEK 337 million) in the Group that are due for payment within one year. The corresponding figure for the parent is SEK 0 million (SEK 335 million). Note 32 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Group Parent (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Accrued salaries 286 234 4 3 Accrued payroll overheads 89 75 3 2 Other items 631 423 6 16 Amount at end of year 1,006 732 13 21 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 93 Note 35 ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES Other acquisitions The North American company Heatron Inc. was acquired in the first quarAn acquisition that does not involve 100% of a subsidiary results in a ter. It mainly produces foil elements, high power elements and thick film non-controlling interest. Where the holder of the remaining interest has an elements for high-tech industries in the North American market. The comoption to sell it to NIBE, or NIBE has an obligation to buy, NIBE has decided pany has sales of approximately SEK 250 million and employs around 240 to employ the Anticipated Acquisition Method (AAM), which means that people. The company’s operations were consolidated under the NIBE Ele100% of the subsidiary is considered to have been acquired at the time of ment Business Area as of March 2016. acquisition. Consequently, no non-controlling interest is recognised with During the first quarter, the remaining 40% of shares in the British this type of acquisition transaction. company Stovax Heating Group Ltd were acquired. The company has a market-leading position on the British stove market. In April, 50% of the shares in Swedish company Air-Site AB were acClimate Control Group Inc. quired. The company, which has sales of SEK 26 million, is a ventilation At the end of June 2016, NIBE acquired 100% of the shares in Climate knowledge company and was consolidated under the NIBE Climate SoluControl Group Inc. (CCG) and six of its wholly owned subsidiaries from the tions Business Area as of April 2016. listed US Group LSB Industries Inc. The price paid was approximately USD The operations of the Italian resistor manufacturer ATE Electronics 364 million (SEK 3,115 million translated at the average rate for USD as at were acquired in June. The company has sales of SEK 30 million and was 31 December) in cash on a cash-free and debt-free basis. CCG was consolconsolidated under the NIBE Element Business Area as of June 2016. The idated under the NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area as from July 2016. acquisition value is still provisional. The acquisition value is still provisional. At the end of September, a conditional agreement on acquisition of CCG, which has annual sales of approximately SEK 2,300 million with parts of the British Enertech Group was made. The transaction was apan operating margin of 7.3% and around 1,250 employees, develops, proved by the competition authorities in Germany before year-end and in manufactures and markets air conditioning, ventilation, heating and Sweden after year-end – see Note 36 for further details. heat pump systems and products for cooling applications, primarily for In early November, the North American element company Omni Concommercial properties but also for single-family homes. The products are trol Technology Inc. was acquired. The company has around 40 employmainly sold under its own brands, but are also available as OEM products ees, annual sales of approximately SEK 100 million and an operating marfor other HVAC producers. gin of just over 13%. Operations were consolidated in the NIBE Element Business Area as of November 2016. The acquisition value is still proviThe acquisition means expansion of the Business Area through: sional. – stronger presence on the North American market for indoor climate In November, NIBE acquired a 65% stake in the Canadian stove manucomfort facturer, FPI Fireplace Products International Ltd, which has annual sales – access to the commercial property segment in North America of some SEK 600 million, an operating margin of 13% and 380 employees. – top-level technical expertise and new HVAC products The company’s operations were consolidated under the NIBE Stoves Business Area as of November 2016. The acquisition value is still provisional. In early December, NIBE acquired the operations of North American company Hotwatt Inc., which has annual sales of some SEK 80 million and The consideration consists of the following Group an operating margin of around zero. Operations were consolidated under (in millions of SEK) 2016 the NIBE Element Business Area as of December 2016. The acquisition valFair value of net assets acquired 1,682 ue is still provisional. Goodwill 1,433 Consideration 3,115 The consideration consists of the following Group Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies – 37 (in millions of SEK) 2016 2015 Initial considerations 995 111 Effect on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents 3,078 Additional considerations 634 36 Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the operations acquired as Total consideration 1,629 147 well as to the synergy effects, particularly in material supply and distribuFair value of net assets acquired 656 53 tion, that are anticipated within the Group. The goodwill is tax-deductible. Goodwill 973 94 Consideration 1,629 147 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired – 43 – companies Net assets acquired are as follows Group Additional considerations paid 327 60 (in millions of SEK) Fair Acquired Additional considerations not yet paid – 634 – 36 values carrying Effect on the Group’s cash and cash 1,279 171 amounts equivalents Market positions 552 – Brands and trademarks 404 – The size of the additional considerations is dependent on the future profit Other intangible assets 13 30 trends of the acquired units. The amounts specified are based on expected profit trends. The expected amounts are revalued on a current basis. For Property, plant and equipment 422 201 2016, these revaluations had no net impact on the Group’s profit. Financial assets 4 – Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the operations acquired Current receivables 432 435 as well as to the synergy effects, particularly in material supply and disInventories 212 217 tribution, that are anticipated within the Group. Tax-deductible goodwill arising from the purchase of the net assets is included at SEK 45 million Cash and equivalents 37 37 (SEK 6 million). Provisions – 61 – Liabilities – 333 – 405 Net assets acquired 1,682 515 Acquired current receivables comprise SEK 435 million, of which SEK 432 million is expected to be settled. 94 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Net assets acquired Group are as follows Fair Acquired (in millions of SEK) values carrying amounts Market positions 254 – Brands and trademarks 154 – Other intangible assets 23 – Property, plant and equipment 157 87 Financial assets 14 13 Current receivables 187 187 Inventories 224 225 Cash and equivalents 43 43 Provisions – 158 –8 Liabilities – 242 – 152 Net assets acquired 656 395 Acquired current receivables comprise SEK 187 million, all of which is expected to be settled. Note 36 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE FINANCIAL Net assets acquired Group YEAR are as follows Fair Acquired In February, 50% of the shares in the Canadian heat pump company CGC (in millions of SEK) values carrying amounts Group of Companies Inc. were acquired. The company has around 80 emMarket positions 26 – ployees, annual sales of approximately SEK 120 million and an operating Brands and trademarks 26 – margin of 19%. Operations were consolidated under the NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area as of February 2017. Property, plant and equipment 61 75 Current receivables 126 128 Enertech Group Inventories 125 180 The majority of the British Enertech Group, which has several well-known Cash and equivalents 103 103 brands such as the Swedish CTC, was also acquired in February, followProvisions – 137 – 67 ing approval by the competition authorities in Sweden and Germany. The entities acquired, which have around 460 employees, have annual sales Liabilities – 207 – 207 of just of SEK 800 million with an operating margin of 4.8%. Operations Net assets acquired 123 212 were consolidated under the NIBE Climate Solutions Business Area as of March 2017. Acquired current receivables comprise SEK 128 million, of which SEK 126 million is expected to be settled. The consideration consists of the following Group (in millions of SEK) Fair value of net assets acquired 123 Goodwill 222 Consideration 345 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies – 103 Effect on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents 242 Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the operations acquired as well as to the synergy effects, particularly in material supply and distribution, that are anticipated within the Group. Tax-deductible goodwill arising from the purchase of the net assets is included at SEK SEK 3 million. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 95 The Board of Directors’ declaration The Board of Directors and the Managing Director/CEO declare that view of the parent’s financial position and results of operations. the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in acThe Board of Directors’ Administration Report for the Group and cordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and give a fair view of the parent provides a fair review of the development of the Group’s the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The finanand the parent’s operations, financial position and results of opcial statements of the parent have been prepared in accordance with erations and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the generally accepted accounting principles in Sweden and give a fair parent and the companies included in the Group. Markaryd, Sweden, 23 March 2017 Hans Linnarson Georg Brunstam Eva-Lotta Kraft Chairman of the Board Director Director Anders Pålsson Helene Richmond Gerteric Lindquist Director Director Managing Director and CEO The Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements were, as shown above, approved for publication by the Board and the Managing Director/CEO on 23 March 2017. The consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the parent’s balance sheet and income statement will be presented for approval at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017. 96 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of NIBE Industrier AB (publ), Corporate ID no. 556374-8309 Report on the annual report and consolidated financial statements Opinions We have audited the annual report and consolidated financial statements of NIBE Industrier AB (publ) for the 2016 financial year. The annual report and consolidated financial statements of the company are included in the printed version of this document on pages 54 96. In our opinion, the annual report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent as of 31 December 2016 and of its financial performance and its cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of 31 December 2016 and of its financial performance and cash flow in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory Administration Report is consistent with the other parts of the annual report and the consolidated financial statements. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent and the Group. Basis for our opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibility under these standards is described in further detail in the ‘Auditor’s responsibility’ section. We are independent of the parent and the Group in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and have fulfilled our ethical responsibility under these standards. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the annual report and consolidated financial statements for the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and our opinion on, the annual report and consolidated financial statements as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Valuation of goodwill Response in the audit See Note 17 and the accounting policies on page 73 of the annual report We have studied the company’s impairment tests to assess whether they and consolidated financial statements for detailed information and a dewere performed in accordance with the technique prescribed. We have scription of this matter. also assessed the reasonableness of the future receipts and payments Description of the matter and the assumed discount rates by studying and evaluating the management’s written documentation and plans. We have also interviewed the As at 31 December 2016, the Group had goodwill of SEK 10,571 million, management and evaluated previous years’ assessments in relation to representing 41% of total assets. actual outcomes. Every year, goodwill must be subject to at least one impairment test We included our own valuation specialists in the audit team to ensure which contains both complexity and significant features of assessments experience and expertise in this matter, primarily for assumptions linked from the Group management. to external markets and competitors and assessment of the company’s Under the existing rules, the test must be performed using a specific assumptions for future receipts and payments. technique in which the management makes future assessments of the It has also been an important part of our work to evaluate how changbusiness’s internal and external conditions and plans. Examples of such es in assumptions may affect the valuation, i.e. a critical evaluation of the assessments are future receipts and payments, which require assumpGroup’s sensitivity analysis. tions about future market conditions, among other things, and thus indiWe have also checked the completeness of the information in the anrectly about how competitors may be expected to act. Another important nual report and assessed whether the information matches the assumpassumption is the discount rate that should be used to show that future tions applied by the company in its impairment test and whether the inforassessed receipts are subject to risk and are thus worth less than cash and mation is extensive enough to understand the assessments made by the equivalents that are directly available to the Group. company management. Group assets 16% Other assets 43% Goodwill 41% Other intangible assets NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 97 Acquisition analyses See Note 35 and the accounting policies on pages 72–73 of the annual report and consolidated financial statements for detailed information and a description of this matter. Description of the matter Response in the audit Several acquisitions were made within the Group during the year. The acWe have analysed acquisition analyses to assess whether they were prequisition of Climate Control Group Inc (CCG) and its six subsidiaries is the pared using the correct methods. We included valuation specialists in our most significant. The companies were acquired from the listed US Group team who have experience of the methods and valuations used for acLSB Industries Inc. quisitions. In our work, we focused in part on the intangible assets and Newly acquired operations must be recognised in the consolidated on whether the techniques used by the Group management to allocate financial statements, which requires the preparation of an acquisition values to these assets in the financial statements are compatible with the analysis. The preparation of this analysis involves acquired assets and rules and established valuation techniques. liabilities being identified and having amounts allocated to them that Other important parts of our work involved assessing whether the ascorrespond to their fair values on the acquisition date, whether they were sets included in the acquisition analysis exist and whether all assets, espreviously recognised or not. pecially intangible assets, were included. This assessment was based in Preparation of this analysis also requires access to knowledge of the part on inspection of contracts made and reports prepared by the external methods to be used in the analysis and knowledge of the circumstances consultants engaged by the Group to prepare basic data and calculations in the acquired business that give rise to the values to be recognised in for the acquisition analyses. the Group. We have also checked the completeness of the information in the anThe acquisition analysis requires assessments by the Group managenual report and assessed whether the information matches the informament of the assets that are to be recognised in the financial statements (intion used by the Group in its acquisition analysis and whether the infortangible assets can be particularly difficult to assess here) and the values mation is extensive enough to understand the assessments made by the allocated to them in the financial statements. These assessments affect company management. the Group’s future earnings, partly dependent on whether depreciable or non-depreciable assets are recognised in the financial statements. The value that remains after all assets and liabilities have been assessed and valued is recognised as goodwill. This goodwill is not subject to depreciation but is subject to impairment testing at least once a year. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing In preparing the annual report and consolidated financial statements, Director the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for asThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the sessing the company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going conpreparation and fair presentation of this annual report in accordance with cern. Where appropriate, they disclose circumstances that may affect the the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated financial statements in company’s ability to continue doing business and to apply a going conaccordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and cern assumption. However, a going concern assumption is not applied if the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of an annual report company or cease business operations or have no realistic alternative to and consolidated financial statements that are free from material misdoing one of these. statement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, about Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual report and whether there is any material uncertainty factor relating to events or circonsolidated financial statements do not contain any material misstatecumstances that may lead to significant doubt about the company’s and ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to submit an auditor’s report that the Group’s ability to continue their business operations. If we draw the contains our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, conclusion that there is a material uncertainty factor, we must draw atbut is no guarantee that an audit performed in accordance with ISA and tention, in the auditor’s report, to the information in the annual report generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect maand consolidated financial statements about the material uncertainty terial misstatement if such exists. Misstatements may arise due to fraud factor or, if such information is inadequate, we must modify our opinor error and are regarded as material if, individually or together, they may ion about the annual report and consolidated financial statements. Our reasonably be expected to affect the financial decisions that users make conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of based on the annual report and consolidated financial statements. the auditor’s report. However, future events or circumstances may mean As part of an audit in accordance with ISA, we employ our professional that a company and a Group are no longer able to continue to do busijudgement and assume a professionally sceptical attitude throughout the ness. audit. In addition: • We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the an• We identify and assess the risks of material misstatements in the annual nual report and consolidated financial statements, including any discloreport and consolidated financial statements, whether they are due to sures, and whether the annual report and consolidated financial statefraud or error, design and conduct audit procedures in part based on ments present the underlying transactions and events in such a way that these risks and obtain audit evidence that is adequate and appropriate they present a fair view. as a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstate• We obtain adequate, appropriate audit evidence relating to the finanment due to fraud is higher than that of a material misstatement due to cial information for the entities or business activities within the Group error as fraud may involve collusion, falsification, intentional omissions, to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are incorrect information or non-performance of internal controls. responsible for the management, monitoring and performance of the • We gain an understanding of the part of the company’s internal control consolidated audit. We bear sole responsibility for our opinions. that is of importance to our audit to design audit procedures that are We must inform the Board of Directors about matters including the appropriate to the circumstances but not to provide an opinion on the planned scope, focus and date of the audit. We must also provide inforeffectiveness of the internal control. mation about significant observations during the audit, including any sig• We evaluate the suitability of the accounting policies applied and the nificant deficiencies in the internal control that we have identified. reasonableness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement to the estimates in the financial statements and associated information. effect that we have met relevant ethical requirements regarding inde• We draw a conclusion about the suitability of the Board of Directors pendence and mention all relationships and other circumstances that and the Managing Director applying a going concern assumption in the may reasonably affect our independence and, where appropriate, take preparation of the annual report and consolidated financial statements. remedial action. 98 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Of the matters communicated to the Board of Directors, we determine these matters in the auditor’s report unless laws or other statutes prevent which of them were the most important to the audit of the annual report disclosure of the matter or where, in extremely rare cases, we deem that a and consolidated financial statements, including the risks of material mismatter should not be communicated in the auditor’s report because the statements considered to be the most significant, and which therefore repnegative consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to be resent the matters that are especially important to the audit. We describe greater than the public interest of this communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual report and consolidated financial statements, we have examined the administration by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of NIBE Industrier AB (publ) for the 2016 financial year and the proposed appropriation of the company’s profit or loss. We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profits be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Basis for our opinions We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibility under these standards is described in further detail in the ‘Auditor’s responsibility’ section. We are independent of the parent and the Group in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and have fulfilled our ethical responsibility under these standards. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing pany and management of the company’s affairs. Among other things, this Director involves continuously assessing the company’s and the Group’s financial The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriation of situation and ensuring that the company’s organisation is such that the the company’s profit or loss. Proposing a dividend involves, among other company’s accounts, asset management and other financial affairs are things, an assessment of whether the dividend is reasonable in view of subject to adequate control. the requirements that the nature, scope and inherent risks of the business The Managing Director is responsible for ongoing management in operations of the company and the Group make of the size of the equiaccordance with the guidelines and instructions issued by the Board of ty, consolidation needs, liquidity and financial position as a whole of the Directors and for taking the measures necessary to ensure that the comcompany and the Group. pany’s accounts are completed in accordance with the law and the comThe Board of Directors is responsible for the organisation of the company’s assets are managed adequately. Auditor’s responsibility company’s profit or loss is based primarily on our audit of the accounts. Our objective regarding our audit of the management of the company, Any additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional and thus our opinion on discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evijudgement regarding risk and materiality. This means that we focus the dence to be able to assess, with a reasonable level of assurance, whether examination on actions, matters and conditions that are material to the any Board member or the Managing Director has, in any material respect: business operations and where departures and non-compliance would be • taken any action or been guilty of any negligence that that may lead to of importance to the company’s situation. We review and test decisions the company being liable for damages, or made, decision data, actions taken and other matters that are relevant • in any other way acted in breach of the Swedish Companies Act, the to our opinion on discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on Swedish Annual Accounts Act or the company’s Articles of Association. the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriation of the company’s profit or Our objective regarding the audit of the proposed appropriation of the loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a seleccompany’s profit or loss, and thus our opinion on this, is to assess, with a tion of supporting evidence to be able to assess whether the proposal is in reasonable level of assurance, whether the proposal is compatible with accordance with the Companies Act. the Swedish Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is no guarantee Markaryd, Sweden, 30 March 2017 that an audit performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or negligence that may lead to the company being liable for damages or find a proposal for appropriation of the company’s profit or loss is not compatible with the Swedish Companies Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we employ our professional judgement and assume KPMG AB a professionally sceptical attitude throughout the audit. Our examination Dan Kjellqvist of the company’s management and the proposed appropriation of the Authorised Public Accountant NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 99 Corporate governance report Corporate governance in NIBE Industrier AB (publ) (NIBE) occurs via the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director/CEO in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act (Swedish Code of Statutes 2005:551), the company’s Articles of Association, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554), Nasdaq Stockholm’s listing agreement, and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code). It is good practice for Swedish companies whose shares are traded on regulated markets to comply with the Code. NIBE complies with the Code, and this corporate governance report has been drawn up in accordance with the Code. The current Code may be accessed on the Swedish Corporate Governance Board’s website, www.bolagsstyrning.se. In addition, and likewise in accordance with the Code, NIBE also provides information via the company’s website. The corporate governance report is not part of the formal annual report documents. The company’s auditors have examined the corporate governance report, and it is their opinion that the corporate governance report has been properly drawn up and that the statutory information in the report is consistent Hans Linnarson with other parts of the annual report and consolidated financial statements. Chairman of the Board Ownership Annual General Meeting NIBE has its registered office in Markaryd, The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is NIBE’s highest decision-making body. The AGM elects the Sweden, and the company’s shares have company’s Board of Directors and auditors, adopts the accounts, makes decisions on dividends and other appropriations of profits/losses, and discharges the Board of Directors and the MD/ been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since CEO from liability. 1997. The most recent AGM, held on 12 May 2016 in Markaryd, was attended by 384 shareholders. Those NIBE class B shares have also had a secondpresent represented 53% of the shares and 71% of the total number of votes in the company. The ary listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange since AGM was attended by the Board of Directors, the MD/CEO and the company’s auditors. The minAugust 2011. On 30 December 2016, NIBE had utes of the AGM and the company’s articles of association are available on the company’s website. 34,486 registered shareholders, excluding There are no limitations in the articles of association as to the number of votes a shareholder previous shareholders in Schulthess Group may hold at a general meeting of the company. Nor are there any provisions on the appointment AG who have become shareholders in NIBE. or dismissal of directors of the company, or changes to the company’s articles of association. As the Swiss authorities do not report any The 2016 AGM gave the Board of Directors a mandate to issue new class B shares in the comdetails relating to individual shareholders in pany, on one or more occasions and with or without regard for the shareholders’ preferential Switzerland to NIBE, it is not possible to derights, to be used to finance the acquisition of companies or businesses. This mandate is valid termine the total number of shareholders. until the 2017 AGM and is restricted to a maximum of 10% of the number of shares issued at the The ten largest shareholders comprise time of the AGM. the constellation of ‘current and former An extraordinary general meeting was also held on 3 October 2016. The reason for the extraorboard members and senior executives’ with dinary general meeting was to approve the Board’s decision of 30 August 2016 to hold a new share a total of 22% of the capital and 47% of the issue with preferential rights for NIBE shareholders and to pass a resolution to amend the Articles voting rights, followed by Melker Schörling, of Association concerning the limits of the share capital and the number of shares in order to be who holds 11% of the capital and 20% of the able to hold the new share issue. The preferential rights issue was fully subscribed and resulted voting rights, and seven institutional invesin an injection of SEK 3,024 million into NIBE, increasing the share capital from SEK 69 million to tors with a total of 20% of the capital and 10% SEK 79 million. of the voting rights, one of whom represents previous shareholders in Schulthess Group AG. Together these ten constellations of investors hold a total of 53% of the capital in Communication with the stock market the company and 77% of the votes. The ambition is to maintain a high standard of financial information issued by the Group. Such information must be accurate and transparent to create long-term confidence in the company. Earnings and a summary of the Group’s financial position are presented quarterly and, like the annual report, are issued in printed form to all shareholders who so wish. All takeovers and other information that may influence the company’s share price are announced via press releases. All financial information is also available on the website, www.nibe.com. Press releases and reports are posted there at the same time as they are made public. During the year there were a number of meetings with Swedish and foreign investors and financial analysts, the media and Aktiespararna, the Swedish Shareholders’ Association. 100 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Board procedures Decision-making process The NIBE Board of Directors consists of six members, elected by the AGM. Directors of the company and the Chairman of the Board are elected annually by the AGM to serve for the period The NIBE Board deals with all matters of until the next AGM. Company employees participate in Board meetings as required to submit significance. reports or to contribute expert knowledge in individual matters. Issues such as the composition of the Board The Board of Directors in 2016 comprised Hans Linnarson (Chair), Georg Brunstam, Eva-Lotta and directors’ fees are dealt with once a year Kraft, Anders Pålsson, Helene Richmond and Gerteric Lindquist (CEO of the NIBE Group). Apart prior to the AGM, when the Chairman of the from the CEO, none of the directors of the company is employed by the company or has any Board contacts major shareholders personoperational responsibilities in the company. ally. It is the opinion of the Board of Directors that all directors apart from the CEO are independThe company’s auditor makes his report ent of the company. Please see page 104 for a brief presentation of the directors of the company. to the full Board. The work of the Board is governed by formal rules of procedure adopted annually to regulate The company does not have a Nominathe decision-making processes within the company, authority to sign for the company, meetings tion Committee (Section III, item 2.1, of the of the Board and the duties of the Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors has not otherCode), a Remuneration Committee (Section wise distributed responsibilities among its members. However, some directors are more familiar III, item 9.1, of the Code) or an Audit Comwith certain matters than others because their particular expertise and experience. mittee (Section III, item 7.2, of the Code). The Board of Directors oversees the work of the MD/CEO and is responsible for ensuring that NIBE does not comply with the Code in rethe organisation, management and administrative guidelines for the company’s funds are suitaspect of nominations because of the clear ble for the purpose. The Board is also responsible for developing and following up the company’s ownership structure with two principal strategies through plans and objectives, decisions on acquisitions, major investments, appointshareholder constellations, which togethments to managerial positions and the continual supervision of operations during the year. In er control 70% of the company’s votes, and addition, the Board sets the budget and is responsible for the annual report. which also enjoy mutually cordial relations. The Chairman leads the work of the Board and ensures that it is carried out in accordance The Board of Directors is not too large to with the Swedish Companies Act and other relevant legislation. The Chairman follows the procarry out the audit and remuneration tasks gress of operations through consultations with the MD, and is responsible for ensuring that other in a manner consistent with the Swedish members of the Board receive the necessary information to enable them to hold highly relevant Companies Act and the Code. discussions and make the best possible decisions. The Board of Directors evaluates its work every year. The evaluation is carried out by means of a survey of the directors. The results of the survey are then presented to the full Board, which uses them to make specific proposals on how its work can be developed, improved and made more efficient, where necessary. The Board survey for 2016 revealed an open, constructive climate with well-functioning control and decision-making processes. The areas covered by the evaluation included the composition, working methods, communication and internal control of the Board, the Board’s evaluation of the MD and other company management, and the need for committees. The work of the Board in 2016 The agenda includes several standing items, which are considered at every meeting. Status report Report of significant events affecting operations that have not been listed in the written report that has been circulated. Financial report Review of the financial information circulated. Investments Decisions regarding investments exceeding SEK 10 million, based on the data circulated. Legal processes Review of new or ongoing legal processes, where appropriate. Acquisitions Report on ongoing discussions and decisions concerning the acquisition of companies, as and when appropriate. Press releases, etc. Where appropriate, a review of proposals for external reports to be published after the meeting. Internal control Report on the internal control work. Every ordinary board meeting focuses on one principal topic of discussion February May August November December Financial statements The Inaugural meeting Strategy In August, the Auditor’s review In NoBudget At the meeting in February conFollowing the AGM, the Board holds strategic vember, the company’s end of the siders the financial stateBoard of Directors holds discussions over two auditor gives his view year, the Board ments for the preceding its inaugural meeting, at working days. on the interim figures discusses the year. The company auditor which the Board discusses for the period January Group’s budget presents his comments to the rules of procedure to September. for the coming the entire Board of Direcand determines who has year. tors on this occasion. authority to sign for the company. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 101 Group management Election Shareholders Information Annual General Meeting Auditor The CEO, who is also appointed by the Board of Directors as Managing Director of the parInformation Board of Directors ent, exercises day-to-day control of the Group, and the three directors of the Group’s Business Targets Reports Areas report to him. Strategies Internal controls Policies The CEO leads operations in accordance with the instructions adopted by the Board in reMD and CEO Group Administration spect of the division of duties between the Board and the MD/CEO. The work of the MD/ BUSINESS AREAS CEO and of senior management is evaluated annually. Financing, currency management, corpoNIBE Climate Solutions NIBE Element NIBE Stoves rate acquisitions, new establishments, financial control, financial information, human resources policy, sustainability and other overall policy matters are coordinated at Group level. Remuneration, 2016 Severance pay The 2016 AGM resolved that the fees to the No severance pay or other benefits apply to Board of Directors and the fees to the auditors the Chairman of the Board or to the directors, Governance of Business Areas should be paid in accordance with approved apart from the MD/CEO. accounts. NIBE has three Business Areas. At the same time, policies for the remuneration of The period of notice for the MD/CEO is six the MD/CEO and other key management personmonths if the company gives notice. In addiEach Business Area has its own operational nel were detailed and approved. Further information to salary during the period of notice, the management with profit responsibility. Each tion about the principles that apply can be found MD/CEO is entitled to severance pay equal to Business Area has a Business Area Board in Note 6 to the annual report and on NIBE’s web12 months’ salary. Other senior executives are chaired by the Group’s CEO. These Business site at www.nibe.com. entitled to receive their salaries during a peArea Boards also include external members Remuneration to the Managing Director/CEO riod of notice which varies between 6 and 12 with expertise within the respective areas. is a matter decided by the Board, but the premonths. Each Business Area Board, in addition to paratory work for this decision is undertaken by responsibility for day-to-day operations, is the Chairman of the Board after discussions with also responsible to the NIBE Board of Directhe Managing Director/CEO. The remuneration of tors for the strategic development of its respecother senior personnel is determined by the ManPensions tive Business Area. Each Business Area Board aging Director in consultation with the Chairman meets once a quarter. of the Board. Decisions in this regard are reported The Chairman of the Board and the directors of to the Board of Directors. the company receive no retirement benefits in Information on the fees paid to directors, as respect of their work on the Board. well as the salary and other remuneration paid to Management of the Group’s sustainabilthe MD/CEO and other senior executives can be ity work No special agreements have been reached that found in Note 6 to the annual report. entitle senior executives to retire before the ofIncentive programme ficial retirement age while still retaining part of The Group’s working group for sustainability their salary in the interim. reports to the Sustainability Council, which Information on the retirement benefits of An incentive programme applies to certain consists of the working group, the Managing the Managing Director/CEO and other senior key members of staff/senior executives, under Director, the CFO and the Business Area Direcexecutives can be found in Note 6 to the annuwhich they are paid a variable bonus if set tartors. al report. gets are met. Under the Group’s policy, no further penA large proportion of the work is governed by The variable bonus is limited to a maximum of sion premium payments are made if employnational legislation, for example environmenthree months’ salary. It is also possible for an ment continues after the age of 65. tal legislation and labour law, but we are also additional month’s salary to be paid on condiunder an obligation to comply with regional tion that this additional payment plus another and international law and voluntary undertakmonthly salary paid as a variable bonus or part ings such as the Global Compact. of a variable bonus is used to purchase NIBE The management of each company is reshares on the stock market. A further condition sponsible for local operational sustainability for entitlement to receive this additional month’s remuneration is that the NIBE shares purchased work and for compliance with Group guideare retained for at least three years. Under norlines. These managers report to the Business mal circumstances, shares acquired in this way Area Directors in each area. by members of staff shall be purchased on one The Group’s working group for sustainabiloccasion each year in February/March and the ity regularly visits the companies in the Group purchase shall be subject to the relevant insider to monitor compliance with common policies trading regulations. No incentive programme and guidelines. The working group is also reis offered to the MD/CEO. Certain key individusponsible for the work at a strategic level and als in the foreign companies acquired during reports on sustainability issues to the Boards recent years have incentive programmes that, of Directors at Group and Business Area level. in certain respects, deviate from the principles for remuneration that are otherwise applied in the NIBE Group. Further information about the principles that apply for senior executives can be found in Note 6 to the annual report. 102 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Internal controls of financial reporting in 2016 External auditors Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board of Directors is responsible for internal NIBE’s auditors were elected at the AGM to controls. serve for a period of one year. This report on internal controls and risk management regarding financial reporting complies with The registered public accounting firm KPMG AB the requirements in Chapter 6, Section 6, of the Annual Accounts Act. has held the position of the company’s audiInternal controls were an important component of corporate governance even before the new tors since the AGM in 2013. Dan Kjellqvist has code was introduced. been auditor in charge since the AGM in 2016. NIBE is characterised by simplicity in its legal and operational structure, transparency in its orThe engagement partner has continual ganisation, clear divisions of responsibility and an efficient management and control system. access to the approved minutes of company NIBE complies not only with external laws and regulations in respect of financial reporting, but Board meetings and the monthly reports that also with internal instructions and policies set out in the Group’s Finance Handbook. These are apthe Board receives. plied by all companies in the Group, along with systems aimed at ensuring effective internal controls The auditor in charge reports his observain financial reporting. tions from the audit and his assessment of the Consolidated financial reports containing comprehensive analyses and comments are drawn up company’s internal controls to the full Board. each quarter for the Group and its Business Areas. Results are also monitored every month. Over and above normal auditing duties, There are finance functions and controllers with responsibility for accounting, reporting and the KPMG AB assists with due diligence reviews in analysis of financial trends at Group level, Business Area level and unit level. conjunction with corporate acquisitions and In addition to the statutory audits of the annual report and statutory audits of the parent and with accounting consultations. Information on all subsidiaries, the auditors carry out an annual review of how the companies are organised, of the remuneration of auditors is given in Note 5 existing routines and of compliance with the instructions issued, based on guidelines drawn up by to the annual report. corporate management and approved by the Board of Directors. A summary of internal control procedures is presented each year as part of the Board meeting that deals with the year-end financial statements. The Board also has the option of requesting a special audit of a selected business or operations during the year if this is deemed necessary. During 2016, the project aimed at reviewing and further reinforcing internal controls was continued. It is our opinion that this review increases insight and awareness, provides explicit instructions and proposes a clear organisation in respect of internal controls. It is therefore the opinion of the Board that, because of the implementation of this review, there is no need for any separate internal control (internal audit) (item 7.3 in the Code). The auditor’s statement on the corporate governance report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of NIBE Industrier AB (publ) Corporate ID no. 556374-8309 The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the corporate governance report for 2016 on pages 100 103, and for ensuring that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. We have read the corporate governance report, and based on this and our knowledge of the company and the Group, we consider that we have sufficient grounds for our statement. This means that our statutory review of the corporate governance report has a different focus and is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing practices in Sweden. We consider that the corporate governance report has been properly drawn up and that the statutory information in the report is consistent with other parts of the annual report and consolidated financial statements. Markaryd, Sweden, 30 March 2017 KPMG AB Dan Kjellqvist Authorised Public Accountant NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 103 Board of Directors HANS LINNARSON GERTERIC LINDQUIST GEORG BRUNSTAM born 1952 born 1951 born 1957 Elected to NIBE’s Board of Directors 2006, Chair in 2015 1989 2003 Training and education B.Sc. (Electrical Engineering) M.Sc. in Engineering and M.Sc. in M.Sc. in Engineering Business & Economics Directorships Chairman of the Board of HP Tronic CEO and MD of NIBE Industrier AB CEO and director of HEXPOL AB. DiAB, director of Zinkteknik AB, Plasand NIBE AB. rector of Beckers Industrial Coatings tinject AB, Nordiska Plast AB, LWW Holding AB. Group AB and Eolusvind AB. Experience Several different positions as ManagMore than 35 years’ experience of More than 30 years’ experience in ing Director of international Swedish international industrial operations, international industrial compaindustrial companies over more than including as Exports Director of ASSA nies, including CEO of Nolato AB, 30 years, such as Enertec CompoStenman AB, now ASSA Abloy. Business Area Director and member nent AB, CTC AB, Asko Cylinda AB. of the Group Management Team of Executive positions in the Electrolux Trelleborg AB, MD of Trioplast AB Group and MD and CEO of Husqvarand various appointments within the na AB. Perstorp Group. Fees SEK 550,000 No fee payable SEK 275,000 Present at Board meetings 15/15 15/15 15/15 Shareholding in NIBE Industrier AB 914 B shares 6,877,988 A shares and 16,290,011 1,828 B shares B shares Independence Yes In view of his position, his shareholdYes ing and the length of time during which he has been a member of the Board, Gerteric Lindquist cannot be considered an independent director of the company EVA-LOTTA KRAFT ANDERS PÅLSSON HELENE RICHMOND born 1951 born 1958 born 1960 Elected to NIBE’s Board of Directors 2010 2010 2015 Training and education M.Sc. in Engineering and MBA M.Sc. in Business & Economics M.Sc. in Engineering Directorships Director of Advenica AB, Xano IndusChairman of the Board of GARO AB Sales and Marketing Director, trier AB and Försvarshögskolan (the and Lammhults Design Group AB. Cooper Roller Bearings Co. Ltd, Swedish Defence University). Director of Midway Holding AB and a company in the SKF Group. Trioplast AB. Experience Senior positions at companies in More than 30 years’ experience in Considerable experience of interthe manufacturing industry and international industrial companies, national sales and solid industrial medical technology, as well as reincluding MD and CEO of Hilding experience from several different search institutes, including Regional Anders and Divisional Director at positions at SKF. Director at Alfa Laval and Head of Trelleborg AB and in PLM/Rexam. Division and Vice-President at SieWorked at Gambro and the E.on mens Elema. Previous directorships Group. include Biotage, Munters, Siemens, Svolder and ÅF. Fees SEK 275,000 SEK 275,000 SEK 275,000 Present at Board meetings 15/15 15/15 15/15 Shareholding in NIBE Industrier AB 4,571 B shares 22,857 B shares 9,142 B shares Independence Yes Yes Yes 104 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Group management CEO and CFO GERTERIC LINDQUIST HANS BACKMAN born 1951 born 1966 Period of service 1988 2011 Training and M.Sc. in Engineering and M.Sc. M.Sc. in Business & Economics education in Business & Economics and MBA Position CEO and MD of NIBE Industrier Financial Director, NIBE IndusAB and NIBE AB trier AB Shareholding 6,877,988 A shares and 17,371 B shares 16,290,011 B shares Group management Business Area Directors KJELL EKERMO CHRISTER FREDRIKSSON NIKLAS GUNNARSSON born 1956 born 1955 born 1965 Period of service 1998 1992 1987 Training and eduM.Sc. in Engineering M.Sc. in Engineering Engineer cation Position Business Area Director at Business Area Director at NIBE Business Area Director at NIBE Climate Solutions Element and MD of Backer NIBE Stoves BHV AB. Shareholding 509,005 B shares 1,718,125 A shares and 505,142 B shares 2,867,840 B shares Auditor DAN KJELLQVIST born 1954 Elected 2016 Training and education Authorised Public Accountant Position Auditor in charge Accounting firm KPMG AB NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 105 Group companies NORDIC REGION EUROPE OTHER COUNTRIES SWEDEN FRANCE AUSTRALIA NIBE Industrier AB MARKARYD Backer Calesco France Sarl LYON Backer-Wilson Elements Pty Ltd BURWOOD NIBE AB MARKARYD NIBE Energy Systems France SAS REYIEUX Fireplace Products Australia HALLAM Air-Site AB LINDOME NIBE Foyers France SAS REVENTIN Pty Ltd ait-värmeteknik-sverige AB HELSINGBORG Hyper Engineering Pty Ltd VICTORIA Backer BHV AB SÖSDALA ITALY Backer Calesco KOLBÄCK ATE-Electronics S.r.l. GIAVENO CANADA Lund & Sörensen AB MÖLNDAL Backer FER s.r.l. S. AGOSTINO FPI Fireplace Products DELTA METRO THERM AB KALMAR REBA Div. Resistor MILAN International Ltd. myUpTech AB MARKARYD NIBE Stoves Canada Corp. DELTA Naturenergi IWABO AB BOLLNÄS THE NETHERLANDS WaterFurnace Renewable TORONTO NIBE Energy Systems WFE AB MARKARYD NIBE Energietechniek B.V. OOSTERHOUT Energy Corp. NIBE Treasury AB MARKARYD Sinus-Jevi Electric Heating B.V MEDEMBLIK Skarabrae AB MARKARYD CHINA Structurgruppen AB KUNGSBACKA POLAND Backer Heating Technologies SHENZHEN Backer OBR Sp. z o.o. PYRZYCE Co. Ltd DENMARK Eltwin Sp. z.o.o. STARGARD Backer-Springfield DONGGUAN Danotherm Electric A/S RØDOVRE NIBE-BIAWAR Sp. z o.o. BIALYSTOK Hyper Technology and Trading HONG KONG Eltwin A/S RISSKOV Northstar Poland Sp. z o.o. TRZCIANKA Comp. JEVI A/S VEJLE Termorad Sp.z.o.o RADOM Lund & Sörensen Electric H. TIANJIN KVM-Genvex A/S HADERSLEV Equipment Acc. Co. Lt Lotus Heating Systems A/S LANGESKOV SWITZERLAND Shel NIBE Man. Co. Ltd SHENZHEN Lund & Sørensen A/S VEJLE ait Schweiz AG ALTISHOFEN WaterFurnace International HONG KONG METRO THERM A/S HELSINGE Askoma AG BÜTZBERG Hong Kong Ltd Motron A/S RISSKOV Backer ELC AG AARAU NIBE Wind Components ESBJERG Merker AG REGENSDORF MALAYSIA SAN Electro Heat A/S GRÆSTED Schulthess Group AG WOLFHAUSEN Askoma SDN BHD JOHOR BAHRU TermaTech A/S HASSELAGER Schulthess Maschinen AG WOLFHAUSEN Varde Ovne A/S VEJLE MEXICO Vølund Varmeteknik A/S VIDEBÆK SPAIN Backer Alpe, S. de R.L.de C.V TLAHUAC Backer Facsa S.L. AIGUAFREDA Springfield Wire de Mexico S.A. NUEVO LAREDO FINLAND Backer Facsa Resistor LLANERA de C.V Akvaterm Oy KOKKOLA Wiegand S.A. de C.V NUEVO LAREDO Kaukora Oy RAISIO Loval Oy LOVISA UK RUSSIA NIBE Energy Systems Oy VANTAA E. Braude Corrosion Control Ltd SANDHURST JSC Evan NIZ. NOVGOROD Oy Meyer Vastus AB MONNINKYLÄ E. Braude (London) Ltd SANDHURST NIBE Kamini LLC DUBNA RPN-Hall Oy KOKKOLA Gazco Ltd EXETER Heatrod Elements Ltd MANCHESTER USA NORWAY NIBE Energy Systems Ltd CHESTERFIELD Backer EHP Inc. MURFREESBORO, TN ABK AS OSLO Stovax D1 Ltd EXETER Backer Heating Technologies CHICAGO, IL Høiax AS FREDRIKSTAD Stovax Group Ltd EXETER Inc Kuldemesteren AS OSLO Stovax Heating Group Ltd EXETER Backer Hotwatt Inc. DANVERS, MA Nordpeis AS LIERSKOGEN Stovax Ltd EXETER Backer Marathon Inc DEL RIO, TX Norske Backer AS KONGSVINGER ClimaCool Corp. OKLAHOMA CITY, OK CZECH REPUBLIC Backer Elektro CZ a.s. HLINSKO Climate Control Group Inc. OKLAHOMA CITY, OK DZ Drazice – Strojírna s.r.o. B. NAD JIZEROU ClimateCraft Inc. OKLAHOMA CITY, OK Backer-ELTOP s.r.o. MIRETICE ClimateMaster Inc. OKLAHOMA CITY, OK Enertech Global LLC GREENVILLE, IL GERMANY Fireplace Products US Inc. BLAINE, WA ait-deutschland GmbH KASENDORF FPI US Holding Inc. CHEYENNE, WY Backer Wolff GmbH DORTMUND Heatron Inc. LEAVENWORTH, KS NIBE Climate Solutions GmbH CELLE International Environmental OKLAHOMA CITY, OK NIBE Systemtechnik GmbH CELLE Corp. KKT Chillers Inc. ELK GROVE, IL AUSTRIA Koax Corp. OKLAHOMA CITY, OK KNV Energietechnik GmbH SCHÖRFLING NIBE Energy Systems Inc MURFREESBORO, TN NIBE Beteiligungenverwaltungs VIENNA Omni Control Technology Inc. WHITINSVILLE, MA GmbH ThermaClime Technologies Inc. OKLAHOMA CITY, OK Schulthess Maschinen GmbH VIENNA WaterFurnace International Inc FORT WAYNE, IN VIETNAM Backer HTV Co. Ltd TAN KIM For further information about Group companies or operations, please visit www.nibe.com. 106 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB · ANNUAL REPORT · 2016 Production: NIBE Industrier AB Photos: NIBE, Lucky Look/Alamy, Magnus Neale and others Printed by: Trydells AB, Laholm, Sweden. ÅRV SE 1712 NIAB 2017 100137 NIBE Industrier AB (publ) · Box 14 · SE-285 21 MARKARYD Sweden · Tel +46 433 27 30 00 www.nibe.com · Corporate ID number: 55 63 74 8309 LJÖMÄRKT MI The complete annual report and AGM notice are sent to all shareholders unless they have informed the company that they do not wish to 341 091 receive any written information. The annual report is also published on our website at www.nibe.com.
