CSR Report 2017 C or p or ate S o cial Re sp on sibil i t y Rep or t A new frontier, a new lifestyle. Sekisui Chemical Group — produce a better world with creative technologies. The onrush of a conquering force is like the bursting of pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand fathoms deep Sun Tzu Editorial Policy CONTENTS The pages of this report are structured in line with the Sekisui Chemical 2 TOP MESSAGE Group’s concept of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in terms of 6 The Sekisui Chemical Group’s Value Creation Cycle Three Prominences—in the Environment, Customer Satisfaction (CS) & 8 New Medium-term Management Plan Quality, and Human Resources—along with the Group’s “Pledge to Society” 10 CSR Management in connection with its Working environment, Safety, Compliance and Respect for human rights, Stakeholder engagement, and Governance. SPECIAL ISSUE: The Current Status and Future of the Sekisui Chemical Group ●We have decided on the information that should be covered in this report based PART.1 About the Future 12 DIRECTOR INTERVIEW on its importance both to society and to the Sekisui Chemical Group, taking into Sekisui Chemical Group’ s The head of Corporate Research and Development outlines his view of the Group’s future. consideration inputs, including surveys conducted within and outside the Group and independent review. 14 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE (DIGEST) The Sekisui Chemical Group’s future vision and efforts to realize a sustainable society. ●To ensure that information is both comprehensive and easy to read, data posted Philosophy for CSR on the Sekisui Chemical Group’s website conforms to the Global Reporting PART.2 About the Present Initiative’s (GRI’s) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This report is a digest version 18 COMPANY PRESIDENT MESSAGE: HOUSING COMPANY of this information, focusing on key CSR issues specified in the Medium-term KEY PERSON’S MESSAGE Management Plan. Growing prevalence of homes powered entirely by renewable energy ［Report version］ 20 COMPANY PRESIDENT MESSAGE: URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE & High ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCTS (UIEP) COMPANY KEY PERSON’S MESSAGE Importance to society This Developing plastics that are friendly to the global environment while creating Sekisui Chemical Group aims to meet the expectations of its report social infrastructure with a long service life stakeholders and contribute to society through its business activities, 22 COMPANY PRESIDENT MESSAGE: HIGH PERFORMANCE PLASTICS (HPP) COMPANY Principal Website KEY PERSON’S MESSAGE and has embodied this ambition in its Corporate Philosophy called the text Developing high-performance interlayer films that are extremely effective “3S Principles”(Service, Speed, and Superiority). Important to the High ［Website version］ Data Book (PDF) in reducing environmental impact Sekisui Chemical Group Three Prominences Our Group Vision clariﬁes that we will endeavor to improve the lives (Scheduled to be online by the end of Sept. 2017) 24 Environment Environmental Management System / Environment-contributing Products / of the people of the world and the Earth’ s environment, while Web for details denotes there is more detailed information Environmental Impact Reduction / Natural Environment Conservation available on our website. deﬁning Creation of Housing / Social Infrastructure and Chemical 28 CS & Quality Related data and materials are accessible on our website as the CSR Attractive Products, Technologies, and Services / Quality Improvement Solutions as areas of society on which to focus our eﬀorts. Report 2017 Data Book (PDF). 32 Human Resources Diversity Management Access the following URL to download PDF files Building an Organizational Culture in which Employees Are Able to Make the Most of https://www.sekisuichemical.com/csr/report/index.html Their Unique Features and Talents; Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel: Women, Our desire is to continue opening new horizons through Sekisui Chemical Corporate Social Corporate Social People with Disabilities, All Employees Irrespective of Age, Nationality, and Career History home page → CSR → Responsibility Report → Responsibility Report 2017 Pledge to Society prominence in technology and quality under our Group slogan ●The calculation criteria for the key performance indicators (KPIs) 36 Working Environment “A new frontier, a new lifestyle.” used in this report are shown in the PDF Data Book. Putting in Place a Healthy and Invigorating Workplace and Systems ●To ensure the reliability of this report, the content of environmental 37 Safety Building a Safe and Secure Company and social reporting is subject to independent practitioner’s As globalization of our businesses advances and the stakeholders assurance. 38 Compliance and Respect for Human Rights Compliance with whom we interact grow more diverse, we have prepared this Reference Guidelines 39 Respect for Human Rights ●The website version is presented in accordance with the “Core” CSR Report to communicate to stakeholders around the world the standards of the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver. 4. Stakeholder Engagement 40 Communication unchanging ideas and eﬀorts of the Sekisui Chemical Group. ●A GRI Guidelines comparison table is available on the Sekisui Chemical Group website. 41 Social Contribution Activities ●In preparing this report, we also refer to the Environmental Governance Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition) issued by Japan’s Environment 42 Corporate Governance Ministry. 43 Risk Management Scope of This Report 44 Cyber Security Entities Encompassed by This Report: The basic function of this 45 External Evaluations report is to comment on the activities of the Sekisui Chemical Group, Sekisui means “pent-up water” and is an expression used in Sun Tzu’s “Art of War,” an focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those 46 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance ancient Chinese classic. Just as “the onrush of a conquering force is like the bursting of activities. Origin of the 47 Third-party Opinion / In Response to the Third-party Opinion pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand fathoms deep,” it is vital for “the victor of any Timeframe Encompassed by This Report: April 2016-March 2017 battle to take the necessary preparatory steps for success before sweeping in with (Includes some activities that occurred outside this timeframe.) Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report “Sekisui” tremendous force, just as a full body of water (pent-up water or “Sekisui”) drops into a deep gorge.” The expansion of business activities will inevitably encounter problems Scope of Independent Practitioner’ s Assurance includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. and its affiliates, but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections Company Name Disclaimer and management plans and management policies as of the time of publication. and challenges. To overcome such difficulties, it is important to gain a full The environmental and social information contained in the CSR Report Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the understanding of and to analyze one’s opponent’s circumstances, to consolidate one’s 2017 (the Report version and PDF Data Book) is subject to future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the own structure, and then release the power of pent-up waters to be victorious in battle. independent practitioner’s assurance for the appropriateness of figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted calculation methods and the accuracy of calculation results. through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be Information that falls within the scope of independent practitioner’s equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal assurance is identified by mark. years has been revised in line with expansion in the scope of summation, revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 1 Through its prominence in Operating Environment of the Sekisui Chemical Group technology and quality the Tell us about the business environment in fiscal 2016. Sekisui Chemical Group will open up new frontiers and help We achieved record high profits financial market confusion as a result of the U.K.’s decision to withdraw from environment and capable of securing sustainable growth, we achieved in fiscal 2016 by strengthening to improve people’ s lives and the European Union throughout the record highs at each major level of our earnings power while at the the global environment. same time implementing first half. Amid sudden and dramatic profit. In specific terms, operating income climbed 6% compared with In this manner, we will maintain growth strategies. fluctuations in foreign currency the previous year. our strong corporate presence exchange rates and other changes in While future trends in the Group’s In overall terms, the rate of global the external environment, the Sekisui operating environment are uncertain, economic growth in 2016 fell short of for 100 years and beyond. the level recorded in 2015. Despite a Chemical Group worked diligently to the need to improve the quality of strengthen its earnings power while at people’s lives together with the modest recovery during the second the same time implementing frontier, environment remains constant. half of the year, this slowdown was co-creation, and innovation business Looking ahead, we are confident in our largely attributable to stagnant strategies. Thanks also to efforts aimed ability to secure growth by capitalizing conditions in the U.S., concerns at building a business structure that is on opportunities through each of our surrounding a downturn in the rate of resilient to changes in the external business activities. President and Representative Director economic growth in China, and About the Medium-term Management Plan What results did you achieve under the Medium-term Management Plan and what are OP ESSAGE the essential features of the new Medium-term Management Plan that began from fiscal 2017? Under the three-year period of our and the Life Sciences field, where the focus improvements in profitability and the recently completed Medium-term has been on growth in diagnostic reagent allocation of resources to promising fields Management Plan, we were able to systems. Moreover, bold and timely after taking into consideration changes in make certain advances (SHINKA) decisions regarding structural reforms and demand from 2020 and beyond. In this toward the next phase of growth. other endeavors were critical in improving manner, the Group has codified efforts to Throughout the three-year period from profitability and securing definitive profit enhance its corporate value over the long fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2016 of the previous growth. In overall terms, the three-year term. As a result, we will rally to calls for a Medium-term Management Plan, external period of the recently completed major “SHIFT*” as we endeavor to expand operating conditions were volatile. Despite Medium-term Management Plan has the scale of our performance as well as the this volatility, the Sekisui Chemical Group allowed us to make certain advances quality of our growth. In addition to Heralding the Company’ s 70th Anniversary reported three consecutive periods of (SHINKA) toward the next phase of growth. providing a roadmap for achieving our record high operating income. By the end Under the new “SHIFT 2019 numerical targets for fiscal 2019, through of the Plan, our operating income ratio and -Fusion-” Medium-term Management Plan, such initiatives as aggressive strategic What are your thoughts after celebrating the Company’s 70th anniversary and your aspirations going forward? ROE came in at 9% and 11.2%, respectively. the Sekisui Chemical Group is taking one investment, the Fusion of technology, This exceeded original targets. For the most step forward toward a new phase of growth. opportunity, and resources, and steps to I would like to express my expanded our business by providing strengths, we have constantly overcome part, profit growth was largely driven by This new phase encompasses quantitative further strengthen CSR management, the products which meet our daily needs, challenges and opened new doors. higher sales in global strategic fields. This growth and the need to improve the quality new Medium-term Management Plan deep appreciation to all such as tape and PVC buckets, materials In line with our Group Vision, we will included the Automobiles and of people’s lives and the Earth’s environment provides the framework for putting in place stakeholders. that support government and private continue to contribute to improving Transportation field, which has positioned as espoused under the Group Vision, and a a structure that is capable of securing the I would like to take this opportunity to sector infrastructure such as pipes and people’s lives and the global environment eco-friendly materials as a growth domain, qualitative transition through ongoing next phase of growth. offer my heartfelt thanks to all guttering, high-performance materials for by further developing the frontiers of stakeholders as well as the Group’s past electronics and vehicles, and detached “residential and social infrastructure and current employees for their support houses. Over the years, there have been creation” as well as “chemical solutions” and hard work. both frustrations and expectations, but through our prominent technology and Establish a sustainable business base Strengthen the 70 years ago, on March 3, 1947, our employees have always come quality. Furthermore, we will double our from E/S/G viewpoint business base Sekisui was established with the aim of together to solve these issues based on efforts in order to maintain our strong Empowerment of diverse employees being a comprehensive plastics business. the Sekisui Chemical Group’s “3S Principles” corporate presence for 100 years and who support the business This was a new and innovative material in (Service, Speed, and Superiority). By beyond. Japan at that time. Since then, we have working together and combining our Create new products and new businesses 3 actions with prominent technologies and quality Develop new fields, Accelerate 3 actions Corporate Service Speed Superiority new area, and new applications with “Fusion” Philosophy Creating value for Transforming markets Earning the trust of Promote transformation Technology Fusion (strengthening earnings power) and Opportunity Fusion “3S Principles” society through with all the power and society through establish a strong business structure Resources Fusion business activities vitality of a prominence in mighty waterfall technology and quality Group Vision * SHIFT includes the meaning to change the quality of growth in both the scale of business results and corporate attitude, and is an acronym that describes the basic strategy involved.｠S (Sustainable) and H (Human resources) provide Through prominence in technology and quality, the Sekisui Chemical the platform for building a sustainable business base from E/S/G viewpoint. I (Innovation), F (Frontier), and T Group will contribute to improving the lives of the people of the world (Transformation) encapsulate the Group’s focus areas to date of “innovation,” “pioneering frontiers,” and “strengthening Management Strategies and the Earth’s environment, by continuing to open up new frontiers earnings power.” Positioning each of these 3 actions as important components of our basic strategy, we will accelerate in residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions. the pace of growth by incorporating the additional component of “Fusion.” 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 3 TOP MESSAGE About the New CSR Medium-term Plan Stakeholder Engagement The Group has put in place a new CSR Medium-term Plan while at the same time revising its CSR conceptual What steps are you taking to increase awareness and understanding of Sekisui Chemical’s scheme. What led you to taking these steps and what are the key features of the new plan and scheme? concept and approach toward CSR both within and outside the Company? We made sure to reflect our processes. In addition to once again documenting We have newly established the Management Office, reporting directly to the other departments work in unison, we are Prominences commitment and determination to our determination to further strengthen our Development of Star CSR Management Office, Business Strategy Department, in April 2017, in order strengthening our ability to rollout initiatives across governance platform in unison with business applications and Growth to deepen and broaden awareness and Group companies in Japan and overseas, and realize our Group Vision in a newly activities, we took steps to review important issues. areas engine which reports directly to the understanding of our concept and approach improving the quality and quantity of information = Competitive edge revised CSR conceptual scheme. We also positioned business categories in a Business Strategy Department. toward CSR both within and outside the Company. disclosure. By reinforcing our rollout and I am convinced that fulfilling our corporate social matrix format according to the two“prominences” Our new Medium-term Management Plan places We are also bolstering our internal and communication skills, we are generating increased responsibility is part and parcel of efforts to put into and“living and environmental contribution”axes the utmost importance on balancing the need to external communication skills. Every effort is being mutual understanding with stakeholders. We are Structural Brushing up made to increase collaboration between also seeing a growing number of opportunities to effect the“3S Principles”of our Corporate Philosophy. under the new Medium-term Management Plan, enhance both social and corporate value as a part of reform prominences departments including the CSR Management Office garner important input and feedback that extends As such CSR concerns are a focal point of our and are hammering out business strategies to create efforts to ensure the sustainable growth of society management strategy. On this basis, we will work to a number of star businesses that are capable of and the Sekisui Chemical Group. Having taken steps and Business Planning within the Business Strategy well beyond the Group’s pool of accumulated help solve social problems and fulfill our solving both social and environmental issues in a to better clarify the Group’s CSR management Department. Ensuring that overseas regional knowledge. responsibilities to society through our business substantial manner. Living and environmental contribution initiatives, we newly established the CSR headquarters, corporate communications, IR, and = Possibility of market cultivation The Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Degree of Diversity Management Progress Realization of Our Group Vision What progress have you made in promoting diversity management in fiscal 2016 since launching initiatives in fiscal 2015? Do you believe that any measures have had an effect? Environment Enhancing natural capital to keep the balance Three prominences We have worked diligently to diversity management is vital to our future as a measures including career training and Corporate Human Resources CS&Quality Group. development specially targeting women. Thanks Philosophy Promoting diversity Providing products and nurture an organizational services that inspire In fiscal 2016, we paid particular attention largely to these endeavors, improvements in the culture that is conducive to to nurturing an organizational culture that would hiring rates of women, retention rates, and the Business Local Communities ensuring diversity. help realize diversity. This included rolling out number of female employees promoted to Group Vision partners and the Environment Sekisui Chemical announced details of its programs in support of the independent management positions are beginning to Shareholders Employees diversity management policy in fiscal 2015. As a activities of diversity promotion officers within emerge. Moreover, Sekisui Chemical Group Customers first step in promoting diversity management on each department. As a result, we are seeing companies have been recognized for their efforts a Group-wide basis, energies were directed growing awareness throughout the Group. As far to promote diversity management. We are Management Strategy toward the empowerment of women. Through as the empowerment of women is concerned, honored by our selection as a Nadeshiko brand diversity, we are better positioned to capitalize we made every effort to expand opportunities and inclusion in the Diversity Management Resolving social issues Working through business activities Safety on opportunities, overcome hurdles, and stay for women to excel. In addition to actively hiring Selection 100. This recognition serves as an Environment one step ahead of our rivals. I am convinced that female employees, we implemented various incentive to ramp up initiatives going forward. Social responsibility in business processes Compliance and Respect for Human Rights Message to Stakeholders In closing, is there anything that you would like to say to stakeholders? About Expanding the Scope of Environment-contributing Product Application The Sekisui Chemical Group will work and every member of the Group will in unison to deliver increased value to endeavor to enhance our corporate value society. from a medium-to-long-term perspective The application of environment-contributing products has expanded not only throughout the natural To mark the major milestone of our 70th and thus provide additional value to society. environment, but also in social contribution fields. What is the significance of this expansion? anniversary in 2017, we have put in place the new “SHIFT 2019 -Fusion-” Through constructive dialogue, we Medium-term Management Plan in a bid hope to secure the unwavering support We will channel our energies toward we have placed equal weight on contributing to closely aligned to this Group Vision. At the same time, to take a resolute step forward to a new and understanding of all stakeholders. society in order to expand our endeavors. Taking into we are placing considerable attention on creating environment-contributing products phase of growth. Working in unison, each consideration our desire to improve the quality of and market expansion of environment-contributing that help address a wide range of people’s lives as outlined in our Group Vision, we have products that will help overcome many of the issues identified under SDGs. taken steps to clarify our ambitions toward solving impediments to a sustainable society detailed under To date, our efforts to develop issues related to the social environment. In this regard, SDGs stipulated by the United Nations. Ultimately, we environment-contributing products have focused on we are upgrading and expanding the development are accelerating the pace of growth by focusing concerns for the natural environment. More recently, of environment-contributing products that are more equally on enhancing social and corporate value. 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 5 The Sekisui Chemical Group’ s Value Creation Cycle Guided by the “3S Principles” of its Corporate Philosophy, the Sekisui Chemical Group creates new value that it shares with society through the fusion of those technologies and strengths inherent in each of its three division companies (entities) and corporate department. In this manner, the Group is working diligently to help realize a sustainable society. Moving forward, we will provide products and services that utilize the various forms of capital present in society to help solve a host of issues relating to people’s lives and the environment. The Social Capital That Supports Items and Things Provided Value Provided the Sekisui Chemical Group to Stakeholders to Stakeholders INPUTS OUTPUTS OUTCOMES Financial capital Living spaces Newly built houses The Sekisui Chemical Group’ s Business Process Improvement in the quality of life and the environment Finance required to provide and environments Security and Residential and Social products and services Renovation Corporate Living environments Business activities performed by and energy safety the headquarters and three division companies Philosophy Piping materials “The 3S Construction Manufacturing capital Principles” and construction Construction materials Infrastructure Creation Facilities and equipment methods required to provide products Housing production and FFU and services infrastructure construction Comfort New and Functional sheets Design and Headquarters Residential Housing innovative Intellectual capital materials analysis CFRP Accumulated knowledge, Products design and technologies, and know-how Group structural analysis Interlayer ﬁlms Fusion Vision Health Fusion Tapes Human capital UIEP HPP Processing Employee skills and Fire-resistant materials Optimum process design Chemical Solutions experience and function assignment Adhesives Energy R&D FPD materials Urbanization Natural capital control Nature and life Environmental resources and Production, Sales Bio-resource utilization Foams materials required to provide and the life sciences products and services Automotive molds Present Development time axis Future The Social capital Materials Rechargeable batteries Management Resin design and environment Collaboration with stakeholders Strategies reaction control Diagnostic reagent systems and the local community 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 7 New Medium-term Basic Strategy Management Plan SHIFT includes the meaning to change the quality of growth in both the scale of business results and corporate attitude, and is an acronym that describes the basic strategy involved as explained below. accelerate involvement in the three “innovation,” “frontier,” and “strengthening profitability” pillars. We plan to create new value and to accelerate growth through the fusion both inside and outside the Company of technologies, business opportunities, As well as involvement in strengthening the business base human resources, and other resources that exceed the upon which the “new phase of growth” is predicated, we will frameworks of the three division companies. Amid uncertainties surrounding business conditions in the future, In order to maintain a strong corporate presence for 100 years Approach Toward the New Medium-term Management Plan SHIFT 2019 -Fusionthe Sekisui Chemical Group launched the new “SHIFT2019 and beyond, we plan to double our current level of sales and -Fusion-” Medium-term Management Plan in an effort to SHIFT operating income during the 2020s through the two “housing Strengthen the toward a “new phase of growth” by grasping business and social infrastructure creation” and “chemical solutions” vehicles SHIFT the nature Establish a sustainable business base from E/S/G viewpoint business base opportunities as well as reinforcing links both inside and outside cited in our Group Vision. of growth Empowerment of diverse employees who support the business the Company through “fusion.” Balanced quantitative Create new products and new businesses 3 actions growth with a with prominent technologies and quality qualitative transition Develop new fields, Accelerate 3 actions new area, and new applications with “Fusion” Sustainable growth with social Promote transformation Technology Fusion (strengthening earnings power) and Opportunity Fusion responsibility Resources Fusion establish a strong business structure 2020s Positioning of the New Medium-term Management Plan Net Sales 2 trillion yen Overview of the Group’ s Medium-term Strategy Operating 200 billion Adopted a Divisional New MediumIncome yen Company system term Management Plan In light of the Group Vision announced in 2009, the Sekisui businesses” that are capable of creating high social value through of gr Chemical Group has set up a new business framework. contributions to people’s lives and the environment. ow th Through each of the “innovation,” “frontier,” and “strengthening In fiscal 2019, the aim is to form more than ten star businesses ph profitability” initiatives, the Group is assiduously promoting in the five growth fields of housing, social housing infrastructure ase structural reform and forward-looking investments. At the same materials, mobility materials, electronics materials, and life science N time, we are making the most of our prominences to expand “star materials and systems. ew 1.2 trillion yen Overview of the New Medium-term Management Plan SHIFT 2019 -FusionStrategy 120 billion yen **FY2016 example 96.5 Opportunity-fusion tar Net Sales 89.8 Incubation and Creation Theme y s th a on 85.8 n luti ma wi te sses sence evo Frontier New New a and business business e Cr sine pre , Prominences th Hope Star bu rong , g row Tax raise and various st ry Development of ove backlashes after Growth engine Rec Tokyo Olympics applications and areas Technology-fusion **Semiconductor materials, Housing, **High-performance interlayer films, Functional • Fusion with Functional materials, etc. plastic sheet, Diagnostic reagents, etc. potential Innovation =Competitive edge partners through Operating Reborn M&A, etc. Potential Income Structural reform • Expand strategic Brushing up prominences investment 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 2X Transformation Resources(strengthen earnings power) fusion **High-functionality resin, Molding **Domestic general-purpose product business materials, Real estate, etc. From 2000 to the previous From the new medium-term management plan Medium-term Corporate Living & environmental contribution =Possibility of market cultivation Management Plan Philosophy Manufacturing / technological development to the 2020s Sustainable Business Group Vision Empowerment of base Human Resources Management Strategies 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 9 CSR Management Overview of the CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2014 to Fiscal 2016) Guided by its medium-term plan that ran through to the end of fiscal 2016, promoted measures designed to further fortify our management and under the overarching slogan “Group, Global, Communication,” the foundation. Among a host of accomplishments, we reduced the incidence Sekisui Chemical Group worked diligently to strengthen CSR management. of compliance issues to zero and achieved our disaster-prevention system As a result, we were able to successfully achieve certain targets over utilization rate target. New CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2017 to Fiscal 2019) Targets three prominence fields. This included reducing the amount of CO2 Over the period of the next CSR Medium-term Plan, we place emissions, cutting back major quality issues to zero, and increasing the ratio particular emphasis on pushing forward measure that integrate both of women to the total number of employees hired. business and CSR concerns. We will again identify issues that are important In its new Medium-term Management Plan SHIFT 2019 -Fusion(→ to identify what is required to fulfill its corporate social responsibility while As far as the Group’s three attitudes of sincerity are concerned, we to the Group and revise our CSR conceptual scheme and views. P8-9), the Sekisui Chemical Group places considerable emphasis on promoting long-term growth. With this in mind, we have positioned the balancing the needs to secure both social and corporate value. The main “three prominences” of the environment, customer service (CS) and quality, thrust throughout the period of the Plan is therefore to engage in CSR and human resources, our pledge to society encompassing safety, management that is in tune with business activities. compliance and respect for human rights, and the working environment, as Three Prominences Key Measures FY2016 Targets FY2016 Results In addition to creating social value, the Group is conscious of the need well as governance and stakeholder engagement as important issues. 1.Expand the environment-contributing product market Net sales ratio: 50% or more Net sales ratio: 45.2% Three Prominences Key Measures FY2017 Targets Medium-term Targets 1) Reduce Achieved the target with a reduction of 0.3% greenhousegas Maintain total volume (vs. FY2013) 1.Manage progress using integrated indices (sustainability index) Secure a rate of return on natural capital of 85% Secure a rate of return on natural capital of 90% or more emissions (11.3% reduction in Japan and a 7.5% increase overseas) 2.Expand and create 1) Environment-contributing 50% product sales ratio 60% or more 2.Reduce 7.5% increase markets for environment2) Number of newly 2) Reduce waste Reduce per unit of output by 12% (vs. FY2013) contributing products 10 30 or more Environment environment (9.9% increase in Japan and a 4.2% reduction overseas) registered products impact Environment 1) Reduce greenhousegas 3% (vs. FY2013) 6% or more (vs. FY2013) emissions Ascertain the status of current conditions Completed investigations and surveys by FY2015 3.Reduce environmental 3) Address water risks ①Reduce water usage by 1% (vs. FY2016) ①Reduce water usage by 3% or more (vs. FY2016) and put forward countermeasures and confirmed that countermeasures were unnecessary impact 2) Maintain water resources ②Reduce the total amount of river discharge water ②Reduce the total amount of river discharge water chemical oxygen demand (COD) by 1% (vs FY2016) chemical oxygen demand (COD) by 3% or more (vs FY2016) 1) Secure an employee participation rate of 100% 1) Employee participation rate of 70% Secure an employee participation rate in Secure an employee participation rate in 4.Conserve the natural environment Sekisui Environment Week of 85% Sekisui Environment Week of 100% 3.Conserve the natural environment 2) Improve the JBIB Land Use Score Card by 10 points TM 2) Improvement in the JBIB Land Use Score CardTM of 13.4 points 1) Reduce the number of major quality issues to zero 1) Reduce the number of major quality issues to zero 1.Improve basic qualities CS & Quality 2) Clarify the definition of new product external failure cost 2) Reduce new product external failure costs to zero 1) Reduce the number of major quality issues to zero 1) Reduced the number of major quality issues to zero 1.Improve basic qualities 2.Improve attractive qualities Introduce three new attractive quality products Introduce nine new attractive quality products CS & Quality 2) Halve external failure costs (vs. FY2013) 2) Reduced external failure costs by 12.4% ①Maintain a ratio of 30-39% of women to total hires ①Raise the ratio of 35% of women to total hires Increased customer confidence in CS & Quality by 4 points 1) Empower women ②Raise the number of women in management ②Raise the number of women in 2.Improve attractive qualities Increase customer satisfaction vs. previous survey Human Resources Promote diversity positions to 145 management positions to 200 2) Develop global Raise the number of participants in the Raise the number of participants in the Global 1.Strengthen Group human resources Increase internal job postings by 30/year Increased internal job postings by 44/year talent employees Global Trainee Program to 10 Trainee Program to 20 Halve the incidence of occupational injuries Reduce the incidence of occupational injuries 2.Train global talent employees Secure 400 number of global talent employees Secure 341 global talent employees Safety Reduce the incidence of occupational injuries Human Resources Pledge to Society attributable to machinery and equipment (vs. FY2016) attributable to machinery and equipment to zero Compliance and 1.Prevent major violations of laws and ordinances Reduce the incidence of major violations of laws and Reduce the incidence of major violations of laws and that impact society ordinances that impact society to zero ordinances that impact society to zero 1) Secure a 30% ratio of women to total new hires 1) Secured a 31.3% ratio of women to total new hires Respect for Human 3.Promote diversity 2) Secure a 20% ratio of international hires 2) Secured a 19.5% ratio of international hires Rights 2.Expand the area and scope of CSR procurement Undertake CSR procurement in the China area Undertake CSR procurement in five global areas 1. Manage and control prolonged working hours Reduce the number of Group companies where employees work Reduce the number of Group companies where employees Working (in excess of 2,000 hours annually) more than 2,000 hours on an annual basis by 20% (vs. FY2016) work more than 2,000 hours on an annual basis to zero Environment Lift the number of Group companies certified as an Excellent Lift the number of Group companies certified as an Excellent 2.Promote health management Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management – White 500 Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management – White 500 by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to four by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to 21 1. Put in place a structure of overseas regional Establish a structure and systems for the Asia Three Attitudes Key Measures FY2016 Targets FY2016 Results Governance management companies and Oceania regions Complete area coverage of Sincerity 2.Increase the effectiveness of risk management (prevent risks before they occur) Achieve effectiveness of 60% Achieve effectiveness of 70% or more 1.Prevent corruption and fraud Ensure zero occurrences Ensured zero occurrences Stakeholder Promote active engagement between Ensure that investors and Ensure that investors and Engagement investors and management management engage on 60 occasions management engage on 200 occasions Compliance The Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR 2.Prevent major compliance issues Ensure zero occurrences Ensured zero occurrences Realization of Our Group Vision 1.Thoroughly prevent risks Improve the quality of risk management before they occur activities Reduced risk score by 15% Environment Enhancing natural capital to keep the balance Three prominences 2.Strengthen risk management Secure a disaster-prevention system Secured a disaster-prevention system Risk Management systems (Japan) utilization rate of 90% utilization rate of 92% Corporate Human Resources CS&Quality Promoting diversity Providing products and Philosophy services that inspire 3.Strengthen risk management Ensure site-specific risk management Ensured site-specific risk management Business Local Communities systems (overseas) manuals developed at 100% of sites manuals developed at 92% of sites Group Vision partners and the Environment Shareholders Customers Employees 1.Undertake dialogue with stakeholders Maintain selection to key SRI indices Maintained selection to key SRI indices Management Strategy 2.Address human rights and Resolving social issues Communication supply chain initiatives Promote CSR procurement globally Implemented with major suppliers in Japan Working through business activities Safety (child labor, discrimination) Environment Social responsibility 3.Promote social contribution in business processes Compliance and Respect Increase employee participation (vs. FY2013) Increased the TABLE FOR TWO participation rate by 21.0% for Human Rights activities 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 11 The Current Status and Future of the Sekisui Chemical Group SPECIAL ISSUE Building a Sekisui Chemical “comfort,” “health,” and “urbanization,” and seeds should come first, though I believe That is Loved and Respected Sekisui Chemical is well positioned in each the concept of “need to do” is especially Around the World of these areas to fulfill the hopes of society. important. The corporate nature of the I look forward to continuing to work Center allows research and development I think that the goal – and it is an towards this goal with a real sense of to focus its efforts in this direction. achievable goal – of Sekisui Chemical is to mission. On this same “need to do” basis, the be a company that develops businesses The Corporate R&D Center has the R&D Center is concentrating its work on that offer strong levels of value for society, freedom to conduct operations that the environment and energy domains. We and to become a company that is both sometimes contrast with those at the very much look forward to our work well known and loved around the world. company as a whole. As the company puts producing favorable results. If the 1980s to 1990s was the age of in its best effort in its operations, R&D is the semiconductor, the years from 2000 focused on producing results that are both were the age of IT. Now we have to ask socially responsible and add value to what technologies will usher in the next society, even if these efforts are in areas Satoshi Uenoyama DIRECTOR age. I’m certain the answer is in chemicals. I that are slightly beyond the scope of the believe keywords in adding value to company’s current businesses. R&D Senior Managing Executive Ofﬁcer society include “the environment,” “safety,” frequently asks itself whether needs or Responsible for Corporate Research and Development INTERVIEW Head of LB Project 1 The head of Corporate Research and Development The “Future Information Box” as Learning from reading alone indicates company worthy of the love of society, that a Tool to Bolster Creativity passiveness, and passiveness does not give those supporting the group can show PART outlines his view of the Group’ s future. About the Future rise to creativity. Rather, I believe creativity leadership in creativity, and that they can I have seen some dramatic changes in the comes from the ability to transmit what is spend happy and fulfilling days as they not 60 years I’ve been alive. I also note that the felt, and we are of course looking forward only create but also play leading roles in pace of change is becoming faster and to the active contributions of all. I will our future. faster, and it is very possible the world 20 admit that when I was younger, I was not to 30 years from now will be almost particularly creative. However, I have unrecognizable. Something else to realized that I have come to consider how consider is that those who are young today to best use creativity in many of the things will be in their prime in 20 to 30 years. I’m I have thought about over so many years. really hoping that those working at Sekisui By using the “future information box,” I Chemical can not only anticipate these believe I can little by little transfer my own My Background from their efforts without making a similar contribution of your own. Of course, my changes, but also play a leading role in experience to others. Since joining Sekisui Chemical about forty aim is to launch new businesses and pass instigating them. The future is always It is my fervent hope that the Sekisui years ago, I have worked continuously in on my sense of gratitude to those who uncertain, but also inevitable. I believe it Chemical Group can continue to be a the establishment of new businesses and came before me to those joining Sekisui should be met head-on with no fear and a in R&D. The launching of new businesses is Chemical now and in the future. I strongly sense of anticipation. The future is, after all, more difficult than I imagined, and there believe that this is the correct course of part of one’s own life. have been a series of setbacks and action and in this respect the Company When I think of business, I think less of challenges. However, I have never believed itself should be viewed as something of a continuity and more of creation. Amid in quitting when faced with adversity. In dynamic, never-ending relay game. fierce competition, it is vital to employ fact, it often instills within me a drive to try The second point is that the bases for extreme levels of creativity to move faster even harder. I believe there are two reasons Sekisui Chemical’s main businesses, than other companies and to do things for this. First, the more you learn about the including housing, pipes, tapes, foam, that no other company can do. Creativity is difficulties in setting up a new business, the interlayer films, and other businesses, were not a special term reserved exclusively for more you come to appreciate the all built prior to 1980. To put it in more those in new businesses and those challenges the founders of Sekisui extreme terms, R&D since the 1980s has engaged in R&D – it is a vital concept for Chemical faced when building a base for not been a primary driver in the formation anyone in any kind of competitive the Company. Moreover, as you of the Company’s current mainstay environment. understand that the Company is only businesses. I am driven by the need to not The concept of a “future information where it is due to the struggles of those only reflect carefully on why this is so, but box” involves actively sharpening creativity first leaders, you come to feel a certain also enact strategies to fundamentally in every situation in order to play a leading sense of guilt in that you are benefiting change the way we advance R&D. role in a dramatically changing future. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 13 SPECIAL ISSUE The Current Status and Future of the Sekisui Chemical Group [PART1] About the Future Are You Looking Some Years the expectation that the future lies beyond an Ahead When Conducting accumulation of those inconsequential things R&D? forms my own motivation. R&D Center Attendee Nakano: Are you all looking some years ahead Soichiro Suzuki Suzuki: The short term of the next one to two as you conduct your day-to-day R&D? I think Doctor of Engineering years will naturally see an improvement in Clean-Technology and that you are most likely mixing recent awareness dye-sensitized solar cell (DSC) performance. Over Advanced Materials Institute with visions of the future but, as someone in the the medium term, in around five years’time, the Corporate R&D Center same research profession, I participated today as ‘how nice it would be if the project were I would like to ask whether you are all looking completed in the near future’process will be some years ahead. under way. I cannot divulge the nature of the research, but I am giving consideration to a Teranishi: Although I think long-term viewpoints project that looks into the future, and R&D Center Attendee are needed, I have not had much opportunity to experiments are being conducted overseas. give them much thought. In my case, the Nobuhiro Mori Recently, a child was born. For my long-term day-to-day objectives involve burning issues: Clean-Technology and vision, more than 10 years hence, in the future in Advanced Materials Institute making society’s use of power storage which that child will be living, I am painting a Corporate R&D Center technologies more widespread; bringing to picture in which I want to realize a garbage-free fruition the effective use of energy; and realizing world through the power of chemistry. a reduction in CO2. As a team, however, there are moves to look even further ahead, beyond lithium-ion batteries, and to set up a department R&D Center Attendee to develop next-generation batteries. Rie Teranishi STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Corporate Mori: I am looking at both the short term and Lithium-ion Battery (LB) Project the long term. From the point of view of the final Business Development Ofﬁce objective, what we will be able to do in the near future is really of little consequence, but I feel that [ DIGEST ] R&D Center Attendee Dasanayake Aluthge Rasika Sanjeewa The Sekisui Chemical Researcher Clean-Technology and Advanced Materials Institute Corporate R&D Center Group’ s future vision Kikuchi: The Company is working together Suzuki: One or two years away is medium with Dr. Suzuki on the DSC project. I am term? (Laughs) creating a range of security-related products and eﬀorts to realize under the Internet of Things (IoT) banner but, Rasika: In my case, the “effective utilization of CSR Expert in my case, I get the feeling that CO2” project I’m engaged in at the moment is R&D Center Attendee Mitsuo Ogawa commercialization will be at intervals of three itself “generation after next” rather than next Yoshinori Nakano a sustainable society. President to six months. When seen from our generation. It is positioned in the really far-off Manager Craig Consulting Co., Ltd. future. The project is at the stage at which we perspective, one or two years hence is Clean-Technology and medium term. are drawing on technologies possessed by Advanced Materials Institute Corporate R&D Center research institutions, such as Japanese and In fiscal 2017, the Sekisui Chemical Group will revise its CSR Nagafusa: I see, there are slight differences in overseas universities, and investigating Medium-term Plan and set out approaches, such as the inclusion of your sense of speed. whether those technologies can be used in Stakeholder Attendee “stakeholder engagement” in its CSR activities system, which will the utilization of CO2. Masato Arai enhance dialogue with society. This time, we invited a CSR expert and Kikuchi: In major corporations, is there not a Moderator Technical Planning Group, external stakeholders and held a round-table discussion, in keeping with high ratio of scenarios in which some Arai: I was unaware that Sekisui Chemical is Business Planning Ofﬁce long-awaited technology did not quite lead researching uses for CO2. Even our company Isamu Nagafusa the Special Issue’s common theme of “The Current Status and Future of TEPCO Power Grid, Inc. to product commercialization, and the has yet to start anything like that, so I would General Manager, the Sekisui Chemical Group,” with employees responsible for Environmental Management Group future-oriented R&D. In this booklet, we present what was said at the research outcomes, which were immensely imagine that it’s a progressive initiative. Business Strategy Department discussion in digest form in the time-consuming and costly, are lying convenience of a magazine format. dormant? I feel that unearthing these scenarios, and bringing them to Stakeholder Attendee April 5, 2017 commercialization within a short period of R&D Center, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. time, would be a way to give rise to one Masakazu Kikuchi innovation. Executive Vice President and Chief Business Ofﬁcer (CBO) Secual, Inc. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 15 SPECIAL ISSUE The Current Status and Future of the Sekisui Chemical Group [PART1] About the Future STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE [DIGEST] management in the home and on how to Kikuchi: Taking the case of mobile phone Expectations for “Integration” Suzuki: The film-type, dye-sensitized solar cell Nakano: Including each divisional company, use storage batteries. That is of benefit to us, batteries, for example, consumer interest lies of Each R&D Project that I am involved with enables power how would you go about integrating each R&D and I think that it will likely be of major in them lasting 100 times longer than they generation at a light intensity of 500 lux or less, project that is under way? That might be a benefit to Sekisui Chemical, too. do now, in being able to charge the battery Rasika: Although we have not dealt with and leverages its two unique characteristics: a problem in the future. at 1/100th of the speed or even in being specifics up to now, I am considering if there is thinness of less than 1mm and bendability. We Mori: Despite being a manufacturer of able to charge using indoor light. I think that any way to create value from CO2, which is plan to launch sales as an independent power Kikuchi: I think so, too, but when looked at on chemicals, as you know we took on the this kind of technological revolution, which being dismissed as the arch villain in global source for electronic billboards and IoT sensors an individual basis, even when cooperation challenges of the electricity business, but the is happening close at hand, will easily gain warming, through the power of chemistry. Since during 2017. This is precisely the project to be appears difficult, for example with the talk of fact is that we kind of jumped in knowing access to the hearts and minds of most it would have a major impact on the world if working in partnership with Secual. the energy management of an entire town absolutely nothing of the lie of the land and consumers. Sekisui Chemical possesses CO2 could be put to good use, I believe that it being advanced with TEPCO Power Grid, there without any inkling of industry common upgraded and expanded resources would lead to something that would also assist Mori: Working with TEPCO Power Grid right are areas of overlap with the security the country I come from, Sri Lanka. now, I am in the middle of a demonstration test management of an entire town for which we practice. There have been many aspects that characteristic of a major corporation that we I have gained an awareness of through my don’t have, and thus by all means we would of a virtual power plant that interconnects are aiming. How to make cities in which people Nakano: I utilized the characteristics of carbon household storage batteries on subdivisions in can live in a safe, secure and comfortable way. exchanges with Mr. Arai. like to effectively utilize those resources and Awareness Born of fiber-reinforced plastic (CFRP), which is strong the city of Tsukuba in Ibaraki Prefecture. When mutual aims are close, I would like to open up the future that lies ahead. Differences in Priorities, but lightweight, and commercialized Integrating and controlling 20 energy make a joint contribution. Suzuki: Since I was not aware of the value of Paths Open Up waterproof panels that can be easily handled by self-sufficient homes and Tsukuba business successful customer communication, I could Nagafusa: From what I have seen in this the elderly. As the waterproof panels are sites through TEMS, the power plant utilizes the Nagafusa: In closing, perhaps Mr. Ogawa Ogawa: For Mr. Suzuki and Mr. Kikuchi to not effectively convey the products appeal discussion, I am gaining a feel for how the installed at the entrances to underground existing distribution network to match the would be so kind as to give us his thoughts and have different definitions of short term and three years ago, when I joined the DSC Sekisui Chemical Group should be tackling shopping malls to prevent floods, for example at power usage status of the entire impressions on today’s discussion. medium term, I think that their own project. However, through having had a its R&D initiatives for the future. I would now times of sudden torrential rainfall, and the ages demonstration test site and shares the priorities often differ from those of their variety of sessions with customers, including like to hear opinions on the projects on of the people who install them are now electricity stored in the household storage Ogawa: I get the feeling that you have shown business partners. I feel that is of vital Mr. Kikuchi, over the past year or so, I feel which you are currently working. increasing, there was a problem that the batteries. us the potential with regard to Sekisui importance to exchange opinions when there have been many factors that have conventional aluminum panels were heavy and Chemical’s environment and energy fields. The priorities are at odds from each other. There enabled me to increase speed at a stroke could not be used, a problem that we were able Arai: Mainly with Sekisui Chemical, I am world is currently undergoing major change, is an awareness that when you say “Oh, is toward the realization of my research. to resolve by deciding to make the panels out of working on a demonstration test with and society has great expectations with regard that so?” paths will suddenly open up. But CFRP. household storage batteries, but I think that we to companies that are seeking to change. As I hasn’t everyone had that kind of experience? Kikuchi: It is because we see consumers and customers in front of us. Conversely, there will also be targeting the automotive storage think you are one such company, and you are Teranishi: Under the LB project, we completed battery that Ms. Teranishi was speaking about. on record as having said that “the Sekisui Nakano: In the case of the R&D Center, the are areas in the information relating to the the development of a high-capacity, film-type Today, I have been able to find out about Chemical Group has a dream to create that researchers themselves possess the unique materials and technologies with which I’m lithium-ion battery. This is installed in the “Smart Sekisui Chemical’s wide-ranging initiatives, such kind of world in 10 or 20 years’ time,” I would like ability to conduct technological unfamiliar. Power Station ‘100% Edition’ ” that was launched as battery development and the effective to see you by all means call attention to that development while engaging in PR activities as a household storage battery in January 2017. utilization of CO2. In that sense, I have felt that it sort of vision through your R&D. For that reason, with customers. At divisional companies, I Suzuki: When it comes to technologies, we Going forward, we will also begin its would probably be better if we were to I would like to make more use of stakeholder believe few researchers come into contact are able to manage somehow or another on development and evaluation as an automotive strengthen partnerships within Sekisui feedback. with customers, although here the number our own, but where things get difficult is storage battery. I would like the battery to be Chemical and collaborate with researchers of people that do is surprisingly high. knowing where those technologies should given a thorough evaluation by an automobile from various fields on the occasions of Nagafusa: I thank you all so much for lending be applied and who will be interested. manufacture that would lead to the next phase demonstration tests of this kind. your valuable opinions to today’s proceedings. Mori: I myself have received battery-related of R&D. requests from Mr. Arai. The giving of advice is of really great assistance in, for example, enabling his company to contribute to the safe implementation of the power For the full version of transmission network and in making the use of renewable energy more widespread. this stakeholder dialogue, please visit the Arai: Sekisui Chemical has a wealth of Company website at: housing-related expertise at its disposal. In contrast, although TEPCO Power Grid possesses knowledge as a power business http://www.sekisuichemical.ｃom/csr/ contractor, we do not know that much about housing, where electric power is ultimately used. Our company has received a number of proposals from Sekisui Chemical covering, for example, the technologies necessary for energy 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 17 2 SPECIAL ISSUE The Current Status and Future of the Sekisui Chemical Group [PART2] About the Present PART About bout the The Housing Company’s Current Future-oriented Initiatives Growing prevalence of homes powered entirely by renewable energy Present Shunichi Sekiguchi President Housing Company Homes that help achieve zero power uncertainties enable reduced CO2 emissions and are friendly to people and the environment. In 2017, the Housing Company began selling a sources and that allow people to go about My dream is to see homes that are new type of house, called the Smart Power their everyday lives unhindered even during energy-self-sufficient, without uncertainties HOUSING COMPANY Station 100% Edition. Meant as an ideal for power outages, but this has proven impossible about electric power, become the standard for Japanese homes of the future, in this house all to achieve with solar power generation housing throughout Japan. I think that if in of life’s power requirements are satisfied equipment alone. For this reason, the addition to homes, we can achieve a society through electricity generated by solar power. company took up the challenge of combining free of uncertainties about electric power The Housing Company Today Creating Homes from the Staying a Step Ahead of the Developed under a concept of “ultimate living power-storage technologies, such as installing supplies at the town and community level, we Homeowner’s Perspective Competition in Addressing with zero power uncertainties,” our aim was to storage batteries and making use of the power will be able to address more imminent societal Since its start of operations, the Housing Company has Societal Issues create a home in which people could live stored in electric vehicles. Through these issues. pursued the industrialization of housing production using As well as being an individual’s greatest asset, I without having to depend on purchasing efforts, Sekisui Heim was able to meet its goal the unit construction method, addressing various societal believe that homes provide the foundation for Taking the initiative on societal issues of the time power from electric utilities every day of the of meeting 100% of energy needs. As all issues by meeting the needs of the times, such as by healthy and cultural lifestyles and have a in this manner has contributed greatly to the year. The Company’s proprietarily developed electricity is provided by renewable energy, enhancing performance and quality and providing profound impact on the environment and safety Housing Company’s growth. We have always high-capacity film-type lithium-ion batteries CO2 emissions are reduced by 3.4 tons* per environmentally considerate “smart houses.” of local communities. Accordingly, as a provider sought to be at the industry’s forefront on such and vehicle-to-home (VtoH) system provide year, around four times the reduction generally Nowadays, more homes are being equipped with of homes we recognize that the work we issues. In the 1970s, we met calls for more than a day’s worth of electricity. achieved by homes with solar power solar power generation systems and storage batteries, as undertake comes with substantial social higher-quality housing with industrialization and To prevent global warming, Sekisui Heim generation equipment. well as home energy management systems (HEMS), to responsibilities. quality management methods. As expectations has been working to develop homes that are * Calculation assumptions: TEPCO Energy Partner’s address environmental problems and prepare for disaster. At For instance, in recent years the aging of of an aging Japanese society mounted in the adjusted emission factor of 0.000491 (actual value for self-sufficient on renewable energy power fiscal 2015, in t-CO2/kWh) x 7,000kWh (the median the same time, efforts are underway to make effective use of society has been accompanied by a growing 1980s, we built homes that took seniors’ needs value for electricity consumed in one year) resources through sales of second-hand homes and other percentage of seniors affected by earthquakes, into consideration. In the 1990s, we entered the methods of activating the housing stock. fires and other disasters. Many seniors find it renovation business as the need to leverage ●Electricity (Energy Flow) In fiscal 2016, in collaboration with corporate R&D difficult to evacuate to safe locations, sometimes housing stocks became more apparent. As departments and other companies, we moved forward with having no option but to remain in their homes. global environmental problems materialized in Mainly use Charge electric vehicles Generate using solar panels Power being used (EVs) smart town verification tests employing a virtual power Furthermore, due to an insufficient number of the 2000s, we commenced sales of smart houses electricity plant (VPP)* and a cloud-based energy management facilities to accommodate the growing number that make use of renewable energy. Our stance from Electricity from solar generation solar Charge storage batteries system (EMS). We also commenced sales of the world’s first of elderly people, in-home nursing care is toward addressing such issues is unchanged, generation Use in homes equipped with film-type storage batteries. Adopting expected to become mainstream, and homes and we will remain at the forefront of societal the home (sunrise) of electricity Ryuji Oka generated “fusion” as our keyword, we are promoting R&D that goes need to satisfy such demands. Recognizing this issues moving forward. I invite you to look (sunset) beyond organizational and departmental boundaries in trend, the Housing Company is working to forward to our efforts with anticipation. At night, of electricity stored pursuit of more effective and swifter commercialization. resolve issues that will emerge as society ages, use electricity Peace of mind due to double Executive Chief Engineer stored in storage, from * A virtual power plant (VPP) is a system that functions virtually as a such as by providing homes that are highly storage batteries and EVs Interior Decoration & Facilities Development storage Electricity from EVs Electricity from single power plant by using a communication network to manage storage batteries House Development Division multiple dispersed power sources (such as compact private power effective at mitigating disaster and conducting batteries Discharge from storage batteries and EVs Product Development Division generation systems, solar power generators, fuel cells and storage refurbishment that facilitates nursing care. Use electricity of electricity batteries). purchased Housing Company 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 19 SPECIAL ISSUE The Current Status and Future of the Sekisui Chemical Group [PART2] About the Present The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products (UIEP) Company’s Current Future-oriented Initiatives Developing plastics that are friendly to the global environment while creating social infrastructure with a long service life Hajime Kubo President Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Through plastic piping materials, we are contributing to the creation URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENTAL of social infrastructure that is friendly to the global environment. PRODUCTS (UIEP) COMPANY To date, semiconductor plants’ ultrapure water in such fields as aquaculture and agriculture. contributing to a reduction of 4.2 x 105 tons of lines have mainly employed stainless steel piping As Taiwan is a small island nation, its CO2. This equates to the amount of CO2 absorbed materials. However, in Japan we have developed awareness is particularly high with regard to over the course of one year by some 30 million The Urban Infrastructure & Collaboration with Other Product Value Equates to an alternative product using our mainstay clean societal issues such as global warming and energy pine trees. Environmental Products Entities Essential for Creating “Environmental Contribution” piping material to achieve light weight and simple conservation, as well as problems with water Company Today New Products In infrastructure products, which have a close construction. Companies in Southeast Asia (China, resources. As a result, the country has set high * Calculation assumptions: Minus 1.94 x 104kg (per 15A x Now that half a century has passed since Japan’s The type of infrastructure we are involved with are connection to people’s lifestyles, I am convinced that South Korea and Taiwan) are currently making regulations on the percentage of waste water 1km) [According to the Vinyl Environmental Council] period of rapid economic growth, much of the social assets belonging to all of society. The Company product value is “environmental contribution” in and aggressive capital investments in semiconductor recycling and reuse. We expect plastic piping, infrastructure built during that time has become cannot complete such infrastructure alone, of itself. In that sense, you could say that all the UIEP and LCD plants. Our materials are produced in which is highly resistant to deterioration over time, Products such as LCD TVs and smartphones superannuated, and measures to address this situation particularly when it involves developing new Company’s products contribute to the environment Taiwan, which is convenient, and are being used to find use in various government-directed make our lives more convenient, and our are urgently needed. Demand for products and technologies. in some way. by numerous customers. Notably, our ESLON projects that are underway, including the products are in the background, assisting in their technologies to update, rehabilitate and repair this To maximize the effectiveness of our limited Meanwhile, in fiscal 2017 we will conduct a valves have the high product quality and product construction of reclaimed water treatment plants manufacture. For this reason, I consider infrastructure is growing on a daily basis. As a management resources, we consider alliances with major overhaul of our technology development lineup required of Japanese factories and at industrial parks, the erection of rainwater continuing to respond to high quality demands to pioneering plastics manufacturer that was the first in other companies and affiliated companies and the departments in the interest of further accelerating semiconductor and LCD plants. They are the only storage systems and seawater desalination. be our company’s mission. Japan to succeed in the mass production of polyvinyl joint development of new products and new product development. such product in Taiwan to have NSF certification. From the perspective of waste reduction, chloride (PVC) piping 65 years ago, the Urban technologies to be an extremely effective option. Based on the concept of “fusion” raised in our Their high quality level means that they can be plastic piping is more environmentally friendly Infrastructure & Environmental Products (UIEP) As with social infrastructure, there is also a new medium-term management plan, we will used with peace of mind and have earned the than metal piping as it is more lightweight and Company has been working to address this growing growing need for measures to address factory aggressively pursue R&D that goes beyond the products a strong reputation. longer lasting. Also, less CO2 is emitted in the social demand as quickly as possible with measures to obsolescence. We are uniquely positioned with the boundaries of the UIEP Company in order to cultivate We also manufacture and sell our own Mefco production of plastic piping. We manufacture repair aging infrastructure. extensive product capabilities to support the stable new demand and develop business in new domains. brand of valves, which are broadly used with around 5,500 tons of such piping annually, Under the themes of finding substitutes for operations of plant production equipment, I am proud that each of our business facilities is industrial wastewater and waste fluids, as well as metals, developing new materials and cultivating new enabling us to propose to customers optimal actively engaged in measures to protect the natural uses, we continue striving to help reduce piping materials for lines that have long lives and environment, and that they are spreading out into environmental impact on local communities by are easy to install. unique activities closely linked with the regions making use of plastic materials in a wide range of I believe our greatest strengths lie in the track where the facilities are located. As our employees fields. record we have built up over the years and a solid engage in these activities, they obtain hints on In fiscal 2017, we are launching the InfraGuard network of partners in a variety of fields. viewing things from a different perspective. I Jojo Hu series of products to repair and strengthen degraded anticipate a virtuous cycle in which these concrete and other structural materials. By deploying perspectives are linked to new product the series broadly in Japan and overseas, our new developments, and the new products increase our Sales Manager medium-term management plan calls for us to steadily contribution to housing and social infrastructure. Taipei Ofﬁce roll out new, environmentally considerate products. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Plant Hyper BK Mefco valve 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 21 SPECIAL ISSUE The Current Status and Future of the Sekisui Chemical Group [PART2] About the Present The High Performance Plastics (HPP) Company’s Current Future-oriented Initiatives Developing high-performance interlayer ﬁlms that are extremely effective in reducing environmental impact Keita Kato President High Performance Plastics Company Our interlayer film has acquired the HIGH PERFORMANCE PLASTICS (HPP) functions needed to achieve a sustainable society. COMPANY S-LECTM Sound Acoustic Film, the world’s first “sound insulating/heat Recently, the use of wedge-shaped commercialized in 1998, is a product that shielding interlayer film” in 2005. High interlayer film for Head-up Displays to can maintain in-vehicle quietness, even with multilayer extrusion technology is required project clear images on windshields has The High Performance Plastic For example, in the Automobiles and In the years ahead, we will increase the thin glass, and contribute to making for sound insulation, and high technology is been growing due to the need for greater (HPP) Company Today Transportation business, S-LECTM Solar number of products that not only automobiles lighter while improving required to uniformly distribute heat safety. Historically, interlayer film has Control Film has become widely recognized contribute to the natural environment, but comfort. On the other hand, S-LECTM Solar shielding particles for heat shielding. It was produced a variety of products that reflect The Company supplies high-performance as a product that helps lower automobile to the social environment in all the Control Film, commercialized in 2001, can an extremely difficult mission as we had to social needs including S-LECTM Sound materials daily in a wide range of business fuel consumption. Our current focus of Company’s business domains. reduce the air conditioner’s power achieve these two technologies Acoustic Film, S-LECTM Solar Control Film, fields close to our lives such as automobiles, development in the electronics field is consumption and improve fuel economy by simultaneously and needed the capacity to and wedge-shaped interlayer film for mobile phones, and housing. In our new Medium-term Management OLED materials, which hold promise as Developing the Groundwork for shielding and insulating heat outside the perform stable mass production. Head-up Displays. In partnership with other Plan started in fiscal 2017, we will continue next-generation energy conserving the Future vehicle and controlling rising temperatures Until now, these products were mainly divisions, I will develop new products after displays. within the vehicle. used for windshields, but due to stricter fuel these that will enrich future life. I want to to more strongly position the four strategic What values will we create and what social We are preparing to expand energy Demand for the two functions of sound consumption regulations established by each contribute to solving environmental issues fields of Electronics, Automobiles and issues will we solve? By constantly keeping conservation activities, mainly pursued at insulating and heat shielding with one country and the increasing environmental by growing and spreading these new Transportation, Building and Infrastructure, that question in mind and conducting domestic plants, to overseas plants. On the interlayer film has increased, especially from awareness of drivers, the opportunity is there products until they become the Company’s and Life Science. At the same time, we want research and development, the added value other hand, considering that there are many manufacturers that produce eco-cars with to pursue higher environmental performance mainstay products. to focus particularly on businesses and of the products we create naturally diverse issues aside from the natural high environmental performance standards. standards, and therefore the use of these projects that have integrated the Sekisui increases. environment in our society, we have Therefore, to meet market expectations, we products in other glass parts, such as side Chemical Group’s strength, such as car We are committed to developing expanded the scope of application of pursued original R&D and commercialized windows, is expected to rise. electronics materials, which extends across indispensable high-performance materials “environment-contributing products” to the strategic fields, materials for transport and to providing these products in the include the area of “social contribution” in aircrafts and vehicles and overseas future so that everyday products that reach our new environmental medium-term plan. infrastructure materials, which are the hands of stakeholders are more In the field of Life Science, not only are promoted across the company. environmentally friendly and safe and we manufacturing environment-friendly Standard PVB layers Heat-insulating secure for society. products that enable a 70% or more nanoparticles Environment-contributing reduction in waste, but also developing Products for New Domains in innovative diagnostic reagents that enable 2017 two tests to be conducted at one time. We Ever since the Sekisui Chemical adopted also offer a range of products that environmental management, the High Performance Plastics (HPP) Company has contribute to solving social issues that will speed up disease recovery, prevention and Sound-insulating layer Sho Fujioka pursued environment-friendly products and treatment support. High Performance Plastics (HPP) S-LECTMSound Acoustic Film S-LECTMSolar Control Film Company manufacturing processes. （Sound-insulating interlayer ﬁlm） （Heat shielding interlayer ﬁlm） SEKISUI S-LEC B.V. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 23 Three Environmental Management System Environment-contributing Products Three Prominences Prominences Web for details Environment Web for details Create and Expand Markets for Products That Display Significant Environmental Contribution Building Systems and Platforms for Advancing Activities and Reaching Targets Effectiveness during Customer Use Environment Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 Advance System for Environment-contributing Products Data Book P11 CS & Quality In 2013, the Sekisui Chemical Group formulated the biodiversity. With this in mind, the Sekisui Chemical Over the three years of the CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal environment + social environment” in reference to the issues Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 as its Group recognizes that by solving a host of important 2014–2016), a total of 45 products were newly registered as highlighted by the United Nation’s SDGs and the Sekisui Long-Term Environmental Management Vision with the issues including climate change, the depletion of natural Environment-contributing Products, exceeding the target for Chemical Group’s most important issues for helping to solve aim of realizing “the Earth with maintained biodiversity.” resources, and ecosystem degradation, it is better 30 products. The sales ratio for Environment-contributing issues through its business activities. Human Resources Corporate activities and all issues relating to the earth’s placed to realize “an Earth with maintained biodiversity.” environment have both a direct and indirect impact on Products was 45.2%, short of the target for 50%. The ●Conceptual Diagram of framework of the Environment-contributing Product system Environment-contributing was expanded to “assessment of contributions to the natural The Sekisui Chemical Group is aware that its business activities depend on natural capital. Products ●Number of new Environment-contributing Product registrations Pledge to Society Medium-term Management Plan Target Final Result tural Capita lize Na 30 45 Uti l Contribute from three approaches Enviro Expand and create Products nment-Contributing Environment-contributing Product Registrations in FY2016 (product examples) Reduce environmental imp act Stakeholder Product name: Geothermal Eslo Heat Product name: Kucho Hyper CH Engagement Environmental Environmental Conse contribution contribution rve natural environment category: category: GHG GHG reductions Earth with A talented group with excellent environmental reductions maintained biodiversity Contribute to return of Natural Capital activity promotional skills (Sekisui Chemical Group) Governance LCA Energy Reduce Waste Conservation Give back more to the Earth than is taken via three approaches This system utilizes underground thermal energy by installing heat Kucho Hyper CH is a high-performance polyethylene tube for air Realization of “the Earth with maintained biodiversity” collection pipes (underground heat exchanger) in the earth where conditioner piping. This polyethylene tubes is optimal for cold temperatures remain stable throughout the year. With the water applications. Compared with conventional carbon steel pipes development of new high-performance heat collection pipes, it is used in this application, this polyethylene tubes is lighter and now possible to install a horizontally oriented system for heat excels in corrosion resistance, making it possible to reduce CO2 1｜Expand framework for Environment-contributing Products removal in shallow layers located 1-10 meters underground. emissions throughout the product lifecycle. Creation of the next environmental (augment with social and environmental contributions) medium-term plan (2017-2019) by 2｜ Reduce greenhouse gases in business activities (6% or more compared with FY2013) Product name: Advasol, Water-soluble Film Environmental Product name: High-Capacity FilmEnvironmental back-casting from long-term vision 3｜ Encourage participation of all business sites and employees in Sekisui Environment Week with Harsh Chemical Resistance contribution Type Lithium-Ion Battery contribution category: category: Intermediate materials* GHG reductions Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index Data Book P10 The Sekisui Chemical Group has been using the ●Return of natural capital* Reduce Waste Energy Storage Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index since fiscal Energy Conservation FY2015 FY2016 2014 as a single indicator of the level of 76.4 76.9 environmental impact by its corporate activities (i.e. use of natural capital) and contributions back to the This material is used in individual packaging, making it easier to The Sekisui Chemical Group successfully developed a film-type lithium-ion handle pool disinfectant and water treatment chemicals, for battery utilizing its proprietary electrode coating type insulation materials environment (i.e. return of natural capital). * With environmental impact equal to 100 representing the use of natural example. This water-soluble film has harsh chemical resistance. and process technologies. Leveraging thin and lightweight properties as capital, the return of natural capital as contributions back to the environment It can be dissolved in water, thereby helping to reduce waste. well as the ability to accommodate diverse configurations, this (A more detailed explanation is available on our website.) * An indispensable material for products that contribute to the environment development is opening the door to a variety of applications. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 25 Three Environmental Impact Reduction Natural Environment Conservation Three Prominences Prominences Web for details Environment Web for details Working to Return to the Planet Natural Capital Used in Business Activities Working to Protect the Natural Environment, including Biodiversity Environment Reducing greenhouse gases Data Book P14 SEKISUI Environment Week CS & Quality We aim to keep the overall volume of greenhouse ●Reducing Greenhouse Gases vs. FY2013/Japan and overseas The Sekisui Chemical Group holds the SEKISUI Environment gas emitted during manufacturing pegged to the Week annually during the week starting on August 1 as an FY2015 FY2016 fiscal 2013 level, and reduce by 1% every year the opportunity for all employees to participate in environmental 4.5％reduction 0.3％reduction amount of energy consumed per unit of output. contribution activities. In fiscal 2016, the participation rate Human Resources Total emissions of greenhouse gases were reduced exceeded 70% with more than 20,000 employees taking part in a wide array of activities, such as local cleanup drives, by 0.3% in fiscal 2016. nature observation meetings, and tree planting. ●SEKISUI Environment Week: Number of participating employees Promote Energy-saving Investments FY2015 FY2016 Pledge to Society 19,677 20,449 We aggressively make investments that contribute funding system for capital investments that Activities to remove non-native plants in New York’s Central Park to the environment in order to address global effectively reduce CO2 emissions during production. warming. In January 2017, we initiated an internal Greening of Business Sites Renewal as an Eco Factory We are moving forward with efforts to improve green space quality with the aim of maintaining flora and Stakeholder Engagement At Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., the first phase of fauna habitats around business sites. In fiscal 2016, we factory renovations was completed in June 2016. The New Heim improved our average score on the JBIB Land Use Plant was reborn as an environmentally friendly eco factory. Score CardTM by 13.4 points compared with fiscal 2013. ●JBIB Land Use Score CardTM* average score Governance Principal Environmental Considerations FY2015 FY2016 Storage batteries and solar 1 ｜Thermally insulated roof and walls 4 ｜ power generation systems VS. FY2013 VS. FY2013 Fauna and flora observation at 8.0pt 13.4pt 2 ｜Geothermal air conditioning system 5 ｜LED lighting in all buildings greened areas of Taga Plant 3 ｜Rainwater storage tanks ＋ ＋ *JBIB Land Use Score CardTM : A tool for evaluating the level of efforts to preserve biodiversity ●Comparison of CO2 emissions to conventional factory of similar size (Emissions from a conventional factory indexed to 100) Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd.’s new Heim Plant Conventional Factory New Heim Plant 100 82 TOPICS Creation of Grassland Biotope at Kyoto Research & 2016 Development Laboratories Waste Reduction Data Book P16 Starting in fiscal 2015, Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories has reassessed its Blooming Dianthus superbus greenery in relation to Kyoto City’s Biodiversity Plan. The Sekisui Chemical Group engages in zero emissions ●Number of Business Sites with Zero Emissions We came up with a concept for creating green activities that reuses all waste as resources through the Medium-term spaces, and as our first foray based on this concept, Management Plan Target FY2016 Results strict application of the 3Rs throughout product lifecycles. we created a biotope that mimics the grasslands of Japan and Japan and Five domestic business sites and seven overseas business overseas total overseas total Miyako with ten varieties of plants centered on the 12business 12business wild thoroughwort. When the thoroughworts bloomed sites achieved zero emissions, versus our environmental in autumn 2016, employees from Kyoto Research & Parantica sita on a thoroughwort in the medium-term plan’s target for four domestic business sites Development Laboratories observed the biotope and biotope and eight overseas business sites by fiscal 2016. sites sites surveyed the fauna and flora in their habitat. Blooming thoroughwort plants 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 27 Three Attractive Products and Services Three Prominences Prominences CS & Quality Advancing Development of Systems, Human Resources, Web for details and a Culture Enabling the Creation of Attractive Qualities Environment Self-declaration for Customer-oriented Management Training to Increase Attractive Qualities CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical agrees with the Consumer Affairs Agency policies. Sekisui Chemical plans to disclose the outcome of CS & Quality seminars are seminars taught by guest products and Basic Qualities Edition seminars focus and its initiative to realize customer-oriented management, its activities and current status of initiatives in its CSR instructors from various fields of expertise who are on how to enhance basic quality. In fiscal 2016, the CS and has made a declaration for pursuing customer-oriented reports published each year from 2018. invited to help improve awareness of customer & Quality Seminar: Attractive Qualities Edition was management* as an expression of its principles and action * Companies declare on their own accord to engage in consumer-oriented management, take action satisfaction and quality. Attractive Qualities Edition held a total of three times at the head office in Tokyo Human Resources based on their declarations and disclose the outcomes of their initiatives. seminars discuss methods for creating compelling with 235 people in attendance. More details are given on the Consumer Affairs Agency website (Japanese) http://www.caa.go.jp/policies/policy/consumer_research/consumer_oriented_management/propulsion_organization/#participant_company ● Fiscal 2016 CS & Quality Seminar: Attractive Qualities Edition Improve Responsiveness of Customers Consultant Section Pledge to Society Data Book P22 Each and every employee in Customers Consultant having to forward the call to another department. As a Section learns as much as possible about our products result of these efforts, we have seen an increase in and technologies in order to satisfactorily answer the compliments given by our customers who took inquiries of customers received by telephone, without advantage of our Customers Consultant Section. Secrets to Highest Nationwide Customer Make Work Fun, Creating Teams of People at QB House ● One-stop response rate for Customers Consultant Section ● Fiscal 2016 Call Breakdown Stakeholder Satisfaction at Nets Toyota Nangoku Do Not Limit Yourself People Key in the End Emphasis on Customer Happiness, Joy of Work A Path to Enjoyment Engagement FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Complaints Requests for repairs 249cases(2.4%) 90cases(0.9%) 42.9％ 48.8％ 55.5％ Speaker: Takaaki Yuki, Vista Works Inc. Speaker: Yukie Miura,“boxed lunch meister”at Speaker: Yasuo Kitano, Compliments Nippon Restaurant Enterprise Co., Ltd. President of QB Net Co., Ltd. 20cases(0.2%) Governance ● Number of compliments for Customers Consultant Section FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2016 Internal Dissemination of the Story of Attractive Qualities 3 20 20 10,240 cases The Sekisui Chemical Group has set up the Attractive Qualities Screening System for evaluating Inquiries its Attractive Quality products from an external 9,881cases (96.5%) third-party viewpoint, in order to accelerate the creation of attractive qualities and provide value to customers and society beyond sales and profits. We put together the Story of Attractive Qualities as a Internal Penetration of CS & Quality Management compendium of stories about the development of products regarded highly under this system, and The Sekisui Chemical Group has been conducting ● Number of respondents to CS & Quality assessments distribute these stories over our intranet. customer satisfaction (CS) and quality assessments for As of the end of fiscal 2016, we had assembled FY2014 FY2016 ten stories for the Story of Attractive Qualities An interview and meeting to edit the Story of Attractive Qualities held in 2016 domestic employees once every two years. These 8,957 16,243 assessments are intended to determine the degree of CS publication, which is viewable over the intranet by & Quality management penetration internally by gauging all employees of the Sekisui Chemical Group. Some CS & Quality-related awareness and actions among of these stories are also available on Sekisui employees as well as to identify issues and stipulate Chemical’s website. action guidelines. In the fiscal 2016 assessment, the Maximize Use of Space Under Floors! An Innovative Building Air Conditioning System (Comfort Airy) (Japanese) number of respondents had doubled compared with http://www.sekisui.co.jp/person/recruit/work_person/story/top.html fiscal 2014, and scores have improved in all categories. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 29 Three Quality Improvement Three Prominences Prominences Web for details CS & Quality Pursuing the “Three Zeros” in Accidents, Waste, and Complaints Environment Three Zeros Initiatives Training for Improving Basic Qualities CS & Quality Based on the idea that costs arise from poor ● Accidents, waste, and complaints compared to fiscal 2013 Since fiscal 2011 the CS & Quality Seminar: Basic ●Fiscal 2016 CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition quality in the form of losses and Number of Occupational Waste Generated Costs of Responding to Claims Qualities Edition has been held during Quality wastefulness, such as responding to Accidents per Unit of Output (External Failure Costs) Month every November with the goal of raising the TQM at Ricoh decrease of increase of decrease of level of Basic Qualities throughout the entire Efforts to Date and for the Future 26.9% 12.4% customer complaints and increasing waste, 7.5% Human Resources Sekisui Chemical Group. In fiscal 2016, the guest we aim to achieve the “Three Zeros” of zero speaker was Mr. Hidetoshi Kumai from Ricoh Co., Ltd. Speaker: Hidetoshi Kumai, Executive Specialist accidents, zero waste, and zero complaints. Ricoh Quality Promotion Department, Data Book P25 Data Book P16 Data Book P21 Quality Management Division, Ricoh Co., Ltd. * Japan *Japan and overseas *Japan and overseas Major Quality Issues Initiatives Rebuilding Our Manufacturing Education System Pledge to Society Data Book P21 Since fiscal 2013, the Sekisui Chemical Group has been rebuilding its ●Participants in employee grade-based training system Sekisui Chemical defines Major Quality Issues as ●Major Quality Issues employee grade-based training system for managers in production for managers in production departments (cumulative) problems related to product, technology and service departments in order to spread knowledge of manufacturing FY2015 FY2016 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 1,780 2,252 quality that could cause significant damage to throughout all levels, and to pass down the expertise of veteran 0 0 0 customers, society, or the Sekisui Chemical Group if technicians to younger employees. We offer 16 courses in the three not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis and works fields of technical skills, human skills and conceptual skills. A cumulative diligently to prevent these problems from arising. For total of 2,252 employees had undertaken course up to fiscal 2016. three consecutive years since fiscal 2014, we have Stakeholder Engagement had zero occurrences of Major Quality Issues. Acquisition of QC Certification* ●Number of people with QC Certification Review of the Quality Assurance System The Sekisui Chemical Group also employs QC Certification* effectively to measure levels of quality knowledge, and as of FY2015 FY2016 Following an update of the ISO 9001 standard in The focus of the review was simplifying QMS by the end of fiscal 2016, over 4,100 members of the Company 3,500 4,103 Governance fiscal 2015, Sekisui Chemical embarked on a review streamlining systems that had become overly had attained QC Certification. * QC Certification: A certification system conducted by the Japanese Standards Association and the of quality management systems (QMS) at each complex as a result of past additions and updates, Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers and certified by the Japanese Society internal company and Group company in fiscal 2016. making them easier to understand. for Quality Control. * Figures show the total number of employees who have acquired QC Certification levels 1 through 3. Training to Prevent Quality Problems Group KAIZEN Activities We held the Development Risk Prevention Seminar aimed Group KAIZEN Activities are an initiative in which at acquiring effective risk prevention methods as well as employees form small groups to address various topics the DR Reviewer Training Seminar to improve design such as improvements in quality and productivity and reviewer skills. Both seminars are based on the topic of increasing operational efficiency, and to take on various preventing quality problems before they arise. subjects such as policy management. Once a year in Maya Stary receives the special award on behalf of ●Number of participants in the Development Risk Prevention Seminar January, presentations are made about the best activities the S-LEC Market Creators team to spread information and help each other improve. of SEKISUI S-LEC B.V. FY2015 FY2016 196 302 Improve and Maintain the Quality of Partner Companies At the Housing Company, the Sekisui Heim Mutual ●Number of participants in the DR Reviewer Training Seminar Development Risk Prevention Seminar Prosperity Association, an organization of partner FY2015 FY2016 companies that supply Sekisui Heim materials and parts, holds study sessions about quality for 102 166 DR Reviewer Training Seminar member companies with the aim of maintaining and improving quality throughout the supply chain. Quality study session 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 31 Three Diversity Management Three Prominences Prominences Web for details Human Resources Building an Organizational Culture in which Employees Are Able to Make the Most of Their Unique Features and Talents Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel: Women Environment Formulation of a Diversity Management Policy Women’s Empowerment Data Book P23-24 CS & Quality Not only perceiving diversity by differences understood from that include careers, values and personality while As a first step in diversity management, we are seeking to become ●Percentage of women among ●Number of female new graduate hires management outward appearance—such as gender, age and nationality— understanding, recognizing and utilizing the differences an organization where women can truly thrive and, since fiscal the Sekisui Chemical Group will also focus on differences between each and every employee as strengths. 2016, have been implementing a raft of measures that are being FY2016 FY2016 31.3％ 111 rolled out throughout the entire Group. Human Resources Diversity Management Policy With regard to the percentage of new graduate hires accounted for by women and the number of women in management Based on the realization that diversity is essential to becoming a sustainable company that can maintain its strong corporate value for a positions, we have also established specific numerical targets. century, we understand and recognize that each and every employee’s orientation to work and life and their distinctive characteristics are different and thus we actively take advantage of that. To create an organizational culture, we will continue, through employee dialogue, to provide employment and participation opportunities and a variety of environmental improvements that support growth. Raising the Retention Rate of Young Female Employees We are conducting two seminars with the aim of raising the retention rate of Pledge to Society Preparation of an Original Booklet, “D-Book” young female employees. Conducted before and after assignment, the New Female Hire Assignment Support Seminar has been devised to raise the The Company prepared and distributed to all retention rate among new female hires by increasing awareness from the domestic Group employees an original booklet, the point of view of those attending the seminars. Geared toward those in “D-Book.” The information provided in the “D-Book” management positions with female subordinates who are up to their third year includes a message relating to Sekisui Chemical since joining the Company, the Female Subordinate Management Seminar Group’s diversity management from President and provides day-to-day guidance and the opportunity to learn training methods. Stakeholder Representative Director Teiji Koge, previous case ●New female hire assignment ●Female subordinate management studies, and a Q&A. support seminar attendees seminar attendees FY2016 FY2016 Engagement Organizational Unit Diversity Implementation Activities Support Program for Those Responsible for and Managers in Charge of 114 144 Employees in management positions learning guidance and training methods for female subordinates Diversity Management Promotion Governance Fostering Women as Candidates To create an organizational culture that realizes diversity management, we initiated small group activities on organizational ●Number of organizations implementing activities for Management Positions culture reform through 140 domestic organizations. FY2016 Targeting women employees and direct supervisors who are highly likely 61companies Putting in place those responsible for and managers in to be appointed to management positions within five years, the Company charge of diversity management promotion at each business is conducting a career development program for women, an educational 140organizations department and Group company organization, these efforts have program that has been put in place with the aim of fostering awareness the aim of creating a better organizational culture through and gaining the achievements appropriate for management positions. We diversity promotion by means of each organization’s independent have been deploying this program as essential training across the entire A group discussion toward the activities. creation of a better organization Group since fiscal 2016. Number of Degree of satisfaction ●Career development with participants educational program 90 4.72 Educational Programs on Diversity Management Implementation That Utilize program for women Women candidates for management positions attend a career development program. the Attitudes and Distinctive Characteristics of Each and Every Team Member (out of a maximum of 5.0) In working toward the realization of diversity management, since it is ●Numbers of participants at important for superiors, who play a key role, to understand, recognize educational programs on diversity TOPICS and utilize the fact that attitudes to work and life and distinctive management implementation 2016 Recognized as a Nadeshiko Brand characteristics differ from one team member to another, we are FY2016 1,168 implementing educational programs on diversity management that are geared toward the managers of groups and sections from domestic Having advocated women’s empowerment since fiscal 2007, the Company has been implementing Group companies. At these educational programs, participants are diversity management initiatives across the entire Group since fiscal 2015. Having evaluated these learning the way that business leaders ought to act as well as efforts, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry as well as the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. recognized A general view of participants at an educational the Company as a Nadeshiko brand in fiscal 2017. In aiming to become a corporate group with a presence communications and management styles that discover new possibilities program on diversity management implementation and which they are putting into practice at their actual workplaces. strong enough to last a century, the Company will make even greater efforts to promote diversity. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 33 Three Diversity Management Three Prominences Prominences Web for details Human Resources Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel: People with Disabilities, All Employees Irrespective of Age Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel: All Employees Irrespective of Nationality and Career History Environment Efforts to Promote Employment of People with Disabilities Data Book P23 Providing Opportunities to Succeed Overseas CS & Quality As part of its diversity management efforts to enable each and every ●Employment ratio of ●Number of Group companies that The Sekisui Chemical Group has established the Global Trainee Program to enable ●Number enlisted in Global Trainee employee to display his or her distinctive capabilities, the Company people with disabilities participated in brainstorming participants to build up real-world experience overseas. This program assigns Program works to employ people with disabilities across the entire Group. (Sekisui Chemical including special sessions on employment applicants with sufficient levels of experience in positions such as sales, provision subsidiary) of people with disabilities FY2016 As a new initiative in fiscal 2016, we conducted brainstorming accounting, and development to actual positions at overseas affiliates. 7 Human Resources sessions for people with disabilities on a joint Group basis. Through FY2016 FY2016 In fiscal 2016, seven employees enlisted in this program and were newly 2.29％ 21companies case studies and other methods, we gained a better understanding assigned overseas. In the years to come, we will strive to enhance the program so of the knowledge required with regard to the employment of people that greater numbers of employees can build up work experience around the world. with disabilities and drafted employment plans. Developing Personnel to be Immediately Effective Overseas (global talent employees) Kofu Sekisui Sangyo Pledge to Society TOPICS The Company set up a global talent employee system to nurture global Data Book P23 2016 talents, currently, there are 1,700 registered domestic Group employees ●Number of global talent employees “New Diversity Management Selection 100” registered. Registered employees receive the training in cultural As of the end of March 2017 Winner differences and specialist tuition necessary for their reassignment 341 overseas. Toward an increased target of 400 global talent employees by fiscal 2020, the Company has been promoting measures designed to Group company Kofu Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. employs 16 people with disabilities, enable them to actually gain overseas business experience. including eight who are classed as having severe disabilities. These employees are Stakeholder assigned to departments where they can make the most of their special qualities. The company has also prepared operating manuals filled with instructional photos, Foster Global Management Personnel (Global Saijuku School) Engagement set up displays and labels that are both easy to see and follow, and put in place a framework in which all employees can carry out their duties without error. These Since overseas human resource development has become an initiatives not only encompass employees with disabilities, but also all general staff. urgent task amid the rapid expansion of business globalization, The efforts by Kofu Sekisui Sangyo have further helped to improve business we put the Global Saijuku School into operation to develop the activities through increased productivity and a reduction in claims. In recognition of next generation of management personnel who will play an these measures, the company received a “New Diversity Management Selection So that they are easily understood, effective use is made of color photos and diagrams on work Governance instruction manuals and equipment displays, devices that make it difficult for mistakes to be made. active role in global markets. Nine executives from Group 100” award certificate from Japan’s Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry. companies in North America, Europe, Oceania and Japan, took part in a program to enhance the management skills required for personnel to play an active role on the global stage by Supporting Autonomous Career Development of Each and Every Employee Data Book P24 teaching them about Sekisui’s values while reinforcing management and business creation capabilities. Faced with their own attitudes toward work and life and ●Number of participants at career plan training by age A discussion at the Global Saijuku School distinctive characteristics, the Company is conducting career plan FY2015 FY2016 training by age (young employees and employees aged in their Building Active Cornerstones That Draw on Knowledge, Experience and Values 330 1,164 30s, 40s, and 50s) to give employees an opportunity to consider their future careers for themselves. From fiscal 2016, career plan (follow-up training for new, mid-career employees) training is being extended to cover all domestic Group employees. We are conducting training to draft career plans. With the aim of, for example, acquiring knowledge from outside the Company and enhancing its business potential, Sekisui Chemical is increasingly active in mid-career appointments (the hiring of More Active Participation of Seniors Data Book P24 experienced personnel). Having joined the Company, there are few examples of a lack of understanding with regard to the workplace As a way of working for those aged 60 or over, the Company For that reason, at Sekisui Chemical there are initiatives in culture or in-house systems on the part of the mid-career hires has introduced a post-retirement reemployment system to help place that lead to the smooth transition to reemployment of themselves proving to be an obstacle to the process of having them those employees approaching retirement age but who wish to seniors and their active participation. The Career Plan 57 display their skills at an early stage. Providing new, mid-career remain in employment continue to work with motivation up to educational program fosters “preparedness and motivation” that employees (those hired based on their previous experience) with the 65 years of age. Regardless of their age, we believe it to be looks ahead to age 65 and, at age 59, interviews about careers opportunity to gainat basic understanding about such key information as important for the sustainable growth of the Sekisui Chemical past the age of 60 are conducted with outside counselors. the Company’s unique history, culture, policies, and systems, the Group that employees in their 60s excel as a major workforce Sekisui Chemical Group draws on the high levels of competence and New, mid-career employees gain a basic understanding about the ●Number of participants in Career FY2016 Sekisui Chemical Group. even more than they already have. specialized skills they have accumulated up until their previous positions Plan 57 educational program 64 and implements follow-up training for new, mid-career hires so they can demonstrate those attributes and participate actively at an early stage. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 35 Three Healthy, Vibrant Workplaces and Systems Building a Safe and Secure Company Pledge to Society Pledge to Society Prominences Workplace Putting in Place a Various Measures Aimed at Improving Web for details Safety Targeting Zero Occupational Accidents through Risk Reduction Web for details Environment Environment the Workstyles of Each and Every Employee by All Personnel, from Top Management to Individual Workplaces Part of Body Minimum Space Illustration Necessary Updates to Health Management Systems Review of Equipment Safety Standards CS & Quality Finger ２５ The Sekisui Chemical Group believes employees are precious management at 222 business sites covering the entire Group Sekisui Chemical reviewed equipment safety design Hand assets bestowed on us by society, and takes steps to promote through cooperation with health insurance associations. standards with the intention of installing safe equipment that Wrist １００ the mental and physical well-being of all employees. We have In 2017, we will create the Health Promotion Office at are unlikely to cause accidents, Fist ●Number of employees created the welfare and health assistance group in the Human Sekisui Chemical’s Head Office and promote the health of the in order to prevent serious who took equipment Human Resources (Example of a standard) Resources Department and put people in charge of health entire Group. occupational injuries. We also safety training courses Minimum space necessary to provided training to employees prevent accidental crushing FY 2016 in charge of installing equipment Stress Checks 327 and ensuring safety, explaining in detail the new standards and Employee training Since 2016, stress checks have been performed every June. The ●Stress check related legal requirements. purpose of these stress checks is to create workplaces that implementation ratio Pledge to Society facilitate work through the improvement of work environments by collecting and analyzing stress levels in each section, as well FY2016 Training to Improve the Ability to Identify Risks 72％ as to help each and every employee understand their stress As an effort to create a culture that levels and prevent mental illness. In the first fiscal year of this prioritizes safety above all else, instead program, reading workshops were held on learning how to * Includes some affiliated of relying on specialists, we encourage correctly read group analysis. These workshops were attended companies plant floor supervisors and workers to Reading workshops by 60 business sites including Group companies. train their eyes for better identifying Stakeholder hazardous situations. To enhance each employee’s ability Stress Management Training to identify risks, we began offering Engagement educational programs centered on Stress management training called mindbics is given over An analysis of outcomes has Practicing safety checks at the beginning of and after training Training to patrol plant floors patrolling plant floors in fiscal 2016. the telephone to newly appointed managers, staff confirmed that the training has had a dispatched overseas, and mid-career hires who are likely to major positive impact. Approximately Managers Lead by Example in Safety Activities Governance have high stress levels so that they can manage their own 400 employees take the training stress. Courses can be taken at home or while out on each year as an essential course at business trips over the telephone, making it easier for those the Sekisui Chemical Group. We understand the importance of having top taking the courses to fit it in their business schedules. managers lead by example in safety activities. Managers newly assigned to positions in fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016 attended safety seminars designed specifically for newly TOPICS Recognized as a 2017 Certified Health and appointed leaders. The 2016 President and leaders from Productivity Management Organization each division declared their commitment to safe A safety declaration posted on the intranet business practices, and Sekisui Chemical was recognized as a 2017 Certified Health and Five Highlighted Key Initiatives their personally written Productivity Management Organization* under the large enterprise 1 ｜Reinforcement of the 3 ｜Identify and solve health issues declarations were category (White 500) by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and organizational published on the intranet Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi for its initiatives to solve structures 4 ｜Work style innovation Leading by example in safety activities by employees taking the top safety seminar employee health-related issues. for employees to see. Above: Disaster prevention drill Below: Plant floor patrol (right side) 2 ｜Compliance with laws 5 ｜Counseling and employee * This system recognizes companies that practice excellent health management based on initiatives to promote health being advanced by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. and regulations training ●Number of work sites that conducted drills, number of times, Improving Emergency Response Capabilities number of participants At the Sekisui Chemical Group, we conduct training Work Hour Shortening Committee to fortify the decision-making abilities of all our FY 2015 Six business sites, FY 2016 Five business sites, In fiscal 2016, we created the Work Hour Shortening Committee discusses ways to shorten work hours, employees in emergency situations. Every year, an 15 departments,91 times 21 departments,107 times increasing number of departments are conducting 681 838 Committee in order to realize work environments that encourage employees to take vacation, and introduce let each and every employee work with vitality. The flexible work styles. these drills, with 21 conducting one in fiscal 2016. 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 37 Three Compliance Respect for Human Rights Pledge to Society Compliance and Prominences Web for details Web for details Respect for Human Rights Aiming to Remain a Company Trusted by Society by Strengthening Compliance Respect for Human Rights across the Supply Chain, Addressing Human Rights Issues Environment Prevent Major Compliance Issues Caring about Human Rights in Procurement Activities CS & Quality In the CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2014-2016), Sekisui 2015, we have had zero occurrences of either. We will Along with its entire supply chain, the Sekisui does not meet the prescribed standards, a request Chemical aims to achieve zero major compliance issues continue strengthening management of compliance and Chemical Group engages in business activities that is made to ensure that the necessary steps are and zero incidents of corruption and fraud. Since fiscal work to prevent compliance issues before they occur. respect human rights as part of its obligation to all taken to resolve any issues. Sekisui Chemical works stakeholders. Through CSR procurement with our together with suppliers in the implementation of Human Resources ●Major compliance issues ●Occurrences of corruption and fraud suppliers, we make sure our business partners appropriate measures. respect human rights. In the event that a supplier FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 1 0 0 0 0 0 Conducting CSR Procurement Surveys Pledge to Society Guided by its procurement policy, Sekisui Chemical were conducted at 146 major business partners in Enhance Awareness of Compliance began conducting surveys as a part of the process Japan that are associated with the Urban Sekisui Chemical Group has compiled the to select new suppliers in Japan from 2007. Through Infrastructure & Environmental Products (UIEP) Compliance Manual, containing matters that these surveys, the Company works to ascertain the Company and the High Performance Plastics (HPP) each Group employee should adhere to, and stance of each supplier toward human rights and Company at Sekisui Chemical. All these business created a pocket version called the environmental protection as well as the status of partners have cleared the Company’s standards. Compliance Card in order to instill awareness each supplier’s CSR activities. In fiscal 2016, surveys Stakeholder Engagement of compliance in each and every employee. Sekisui Chemical also has the S.C.A.N. (Sekisui Compliance Assist Network) intra-company whistle-blowing system. Every year, the number of reports filed The conveniently sized Compliance Card Addressing the Issue of Conflict Minerals through this system has increased as a Governance Sekisui Chemical is concerned about the conflict environment. We have conducted surveys on the result of efforts to raise awareness of it. The Company’s Compliance Manual mineral problem, namely the mineral resources use of conflict minerals at companies throughout controlled by armed forces in the Democratic our supply chain. In fiscal 2016, we created Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries guidelines for surveys about conflict minerals, and that commit human rights violations and destroy the they are being applied from April 2017. Stamping Out Harassment In fiscal 2016, the Company focused efforts on training and education related to harassment after receiving a number of internal reports about harassment that occurred in the previous fiscal year, holding open seminars Training and Education about Human Rights during Compliance Reinforcement Month, providing The Sekisui Chemical Group implements employee is designed to increase awareness of issues related training sessions at Group companies, and promoting training on key occasions, such as when they join to human rights, such as forced labor, child labor, e-learning with a focus on preventing harassment. the company or receive a promotion, in order to and harassment. maintain awareness of human rights. The curriculum Content of e-learning courses 1 ｜What is harassment? 2 ｜How harassment adversely affects the Company 3 ｜What managers can do to prevent harassment A deep discussion about harassment Respecting and Protecting Intellectual Property 4 ｜What employees can do to prevent harassment The Company has taken measures to avoid and protect our rights, including quickly filing patent 5 ｜Internal consultation and reporting services prevent the infringement of intellectual property applications for new discoveries, while properly ● Compliance declaration owned by another party. We also aggressively using intellectual property. Attentive and caring participants 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 39 Three Communication Web for details Social Contribution Activities Web for details Prominences Stakeholder Engagement Working to Strengthen Dialogue with Stakeholders and thereby Improve Corporate Value Actively Helping Relations between Employees and Society Environment Dialogue with Stakeholders Main Social Contribution Activities Implemented in Fiscal 2016 Data Book P28 CS & Quality To build relationships of trust with its five with investors and research institutions in a proactive As a company that exists in partnership with local “the environment,” “fostering the next generation,” stakeholders—customers, shareholders, employees, manner. These include Customer And Top (CAT) communities in which it operates, we proactively roll and “the revitalization of local communities.” business partners as well as local communities, and Meetings, at which top management in housing sales out social contribution activities under the themes of the environment—the Sekisui Chemical Group companies meet customers to receive feedback Human Resources considers appropriate and active information disclosure directly, Dialogue with Top Management, where the and two-way communication activities important. As part of that, the Company conducts president and top management talk directly with employees, and the Heim Mutual Prosperity Group. Environment communications with business partners and interviews The Sekisui Chemical Group advances three approaches toward the realization of its Long-term Environmental Management Vision. As a specific initiative toward the Customer And Top (CAT) Meetings conservation of the natural environment, which is one of Pledge to Society those approaches, its employees are developing In fiscal 2016, the Company held CAT Meetings, met ●Number of participants (customers) in Customer And activities to conserve the natural environment in various Top (CAT) Meetings regions around the world. with many customers, and heard feedback directly. FY2015 FY2016 ●Main activities in fiscal 2016 3,613 2,867 Forest conservation activities by housing sales companies/ Biodiversity conservation in local regions/ A forest conservation activity conducted by the Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Group. Stakeholder Greening and cleanup activities, etc. Dialogue with Top Management Engagement Based on its belief that it is essential to resolve Next Generation problems faced by the Company as well as Aiming for a society in which the children who will form the work-related issues through direct communication next generation can develop and healthily grow into Governance between top management and employees, the adulthood, we provide educational programs that draw on Sekisui Chemical Group has been providing our business activities. These programs include lessons opportunities for employees to communicate directly given by Company employees for science classes and with top management since fiscal 2002. support and assistance for research activities based on In fiscal 2016, the Company’s president visited innovations inspired by nature. Group companies in Japan to provide an explanation ●Main activities in fiscal 2016 of progress under the Medium-term Plan and to address any questions. During the exchanges of Houses and the environment learning program/ Science class projects/ Science classroom given by Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. opinions that followed, there were lively discussions on a number of topics, including “our Company’s A face-to-face constructive exchange of opinions with and from Science classroom/Science lesson top management competitive strengths from now on” and “how should the Company and we ourselves change in the future?” Local Communities As a member of the local communities in which it operates, the Sekisui Chemical Group encourages Dialogue with Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Agencies activities that bring joy to local communities, such as Interest in undertaking socially responsible as with investors. Due to our wide-ranging business creating safe and secure cities in collaboration with investment in companies that actively engage in CSR domains, we believe it is important to take the time local communities and supporting programs that activities continues to mount, while ratings agencies to explain to each agency the business assist developing countries. are increasingly undertaking surveys. Every year, the characteristics and CSR initiatives of the Group as a ●Main activities in fiscal 2016 Sekisui Chemical Group communicates directly with whole in order to convey a sufficient and accurate Activities to improve civic order in regions/ SRI ratings agencies in Europe and other regions, understanding of our operations. TABLE FOR TWO/BOOK MAGIC/ financial institutions inside and outside Japan as well Heart+Action/Traffic safety courses Children hold donated helmets at a traffic safety course (Thailand) 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 41 Three Corporate Governance Web for details Risk Management Web for details Prominences Governance The Sekisui Chemical Group Has Put in Place Its Own Corporate Governance System The Company Further Strengthens the Risk Management System to Increase Sensitivity to Environment That Reflects Its Division Company Structure Risks and Improve the Quality of Risk Management Activities Corporate Governance System Measures to Prevent Risks Data Book P27 CS & Quality The Board of Directors strives to achieve continual of Directors to the Executive Committee. In establishing a set Considering increasing employees’ sensitivity to risk ●Number of organizations undertaking risk management improvements in corporate value as an organization responsible of rules that pertain to outside directors, the Company has to be essential in addressing risks that are constantly activities / Percentage of sales for upholding the basic policies of the Sekisui Chemical Group adopted a policy of not selecting candidates for the position of changing, the Sekisui Chemical Group continues to as well as high-level management decision-making and outside director from such stakeholders as major shareholders run through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle of risk FY2016 FY2017 (Estimate) Human Resources supervision of business execution. Together with assigning to and business partners. This is to ensure the independence of management in accordance with the ISO 31000 148 organizations 170 organizations each division company operating officers specializing in outside directors. international standard. In fiscal 2017, there are a total business execution, an Executive Committee has been established to serve as the top decision-making body. As such, a broad range of authority has been transferred from the Board In accordance with the SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles, the Sekisui Chemical Group will promote increasingly transparent and fair business operations. of 170 participating organizations in Japan and around the world. These organizations account for about 98% of consolidated net sales. 89％ 98％ ●Corporate Governance System Pledge to Society General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Strengthening of the Risk Management System in Japan Data Book P27 Having completely revised its crisis management Nominating and Remuneration Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board system in fiscal 2011 in light of the experience gained Advisory Committee Audit Cooperation 10 Directors Five Audit & Supervisory from the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Group has (including two outside directors) Board Member (including three outside Audit since then continued to upgrade this system. The & Supervisory Board Members) Stakeholder utilization rate of disaster prevention systems (33-item President Policy Committee Accounting Auditor self-evaluation checklist) for all domestic business Engagement Environmental Committee CSR Committee Budget Committee sites (approximately 800) stood at 92% on average as Cooperation Cooperation of January 2017, continuously increasing compared CS Quality Committee R&D Committee Division Company Executive Officers Committee with the previous fiscal year over the five years since Human Resources Committee Corporate Audit the Company began these activities in 2011. Department Audit Governance Compliance Committee Audit Affiliated Company Auditor ●Utilization rate of disaster prevention systems 33-item disaster prevention checklist Safety Committee Audit (average utilization rate of disaster prevention systems at business sites in Japan) Division companies, Headquarters Audit FY2011 FY2016 Affiliated companies Improving the Internal Control System 41％ 92％ Sekisui Chemical takes steps to ensure that the Board of In addition, acknowledging the importance of improving Directors, executive officers, and employees maintain a high its internal control and risk management systems, the Strengthening of the Risk Management System Overseas level of corporate ethics. The Company also takes steps to Company has established a division tasked with enhancing strictly adhere to these corporate ethics by complying with internal supervision and implementing crisis management Based on internal rules for overseas safety domestic and overseas legal regulations, international rules, measures and has put in place internal regulations required management, the Sekisui Chemical Group has set up and internal regulations as well as making transparent and to address various risks while undertaking employee training a scheme for Global Crisis Management fair business transactions its top priority. programs and awareness raising activities. Organizations with the director in charge of overseas crisis management scheme, followed by the head of overseas crisis management departments, regional Declaration of Support for the United Nations Global Compact heads, and heads of individual sites. Centered on this organization, we support personnel traveling or Global Crisis Management Organizations The Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and stationed overseas as well as local employees by standards regarding CSR, including the Universal Declaration of *United Nations Global Compact: sharing crisis management information, raising Human Rights, ISO 26000, the OECD’s Guidelines for A voluntary program in which top management of awareness of issues in a timely fashion, and firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 Multinational Enterprises, the ILO’s International Labor Standards, principles on subjects such as human rights, labor implementing measures in response to emergency and the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and standards, the environment, and anti-corruption situations such as issuing guidance on travel efforts within the scopes of influence of their Posting of safety management supervisors to nine overseas regions Human Rights (Ruggie Framework). In March 2009, Sekisui firms and participate in building a global restrictions. Chemical signed the United Nations Global Compact. framework for realizing sustainable growth. 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 43 Three Cyber Security Web for details External Evaluations Web for details Prominences Governance Maintaining an Effective Management System to Address Various Main Evaluations from Society during Fiscal 2016 Environment Information-related Risks Cyber Management System CSR in General CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical has established a comprehensive business sites. Even in the case of organizational ● Earned selection to the Dow Jones Sustainability Group-wide information management system headed changes or transfers, the Company is constantly aware Indices (DJSI) Industry Leader, World, by the CSR Committee chaired by the president, of the presence or absence of security management and Asia Pacific posting at least one security administrator at its supervisors through its registry management system. Human Resources ● Earned RobecoSAM sustainability rating ●Cyber Security System Framework Gold Class ● Earned selection to the FTSE4Good Index CSR Committee Chair: President ● Earned selection to the MSCI Global THE INCLUSION OF Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE Compliance Committee Chair: Executive Officer Sustainability Indexes MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Sekisui Pledge to Society Chemical Co., Ltd BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE ● Earned selection to the Ethibel PIONEER and MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI Cyber Security Committee Secretariat: Information System Group Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Registers AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. ● Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index Network Management Center Manager: Information System Group Manager ● Ranked 46th in the Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking Information System Information System Information System Information System Information System Information System “Sekisui Chemical Co. Ltd. has been reconﬁrmed for inclusion in the Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel （2017／1／4） Stakeholder Administrator Administrator Administrator Administrator Administrator Administrator EXCELLENCE Investment Registers since 09/12/2016. This selection by Forum ETHIBEL (www.forumethibel.org) indicates that the company can Each division/site Engagement be qualiﬁed as a sector leader in terms of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).” Measures to Address Information Leakage Risks Environment The Company takes every measure possible in both security of customer (including personal) and internal ● Ranked 43rd in the Nikkei Environmental Management Ranking Governance system and human areas in order to maintain the (including confidential) information. Key System-related (Tangible) Measures Key Human-related (Intangible) Measures CS & Quality 1 ｜Establish firewalls to completely separate external and internal 1 ｜Conduct security audits as needed at business sites in Japan ● Ranked 11th in the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers Quality CS and Quality Management networks and overseas ● Awarded the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers’ Deming Prize (Sekisui Chemical senior advisor Naotake Okubo) 2 ｜Monitor and record data through network management centers 2 ｜Adopt entry/exit ID authentication (headquarters) ● Awarded the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers’ The Japan Quality Recognition Award Ranking 3 ｜Employ the latest security measures for company computers and and secondary verification when logging into systems update software 3 ｜Conduct e-learning programs every fiscal year 4 ｜Enhance security measures through in-house e-mail systems (passing grade required to access the Internet) Human Resources ● Earned selection to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Diversity Measures to Address Natural Disaster-related Risks ● Management Selection 100 for fiscal 2013 Earned selection to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry/ Sekisui Chemical operates numerous data centers are damaged during a major earthquake. In addition, Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Nadeshiko brand for fiscal 2016 located in remote areas to maintain business the Company is taking steps to completely duplicate operations even in the event that backbone systems critical operation systems. ● Certified as Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry/ Nippon Kenko Kaigi as a company that achieved superior health management in 2017 Protecting Personal Information ● Ranked 75th in the Nikkei Ranking of Companies that Fully Utilize Human Resources Sekisui Chemical has formulated its Personal Information appropriately protect personal information through the Policy, which is available on the Company’s website. Based creation of voluntary rules and systems. ● Kofu Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. on this policy, the Company complies with legal regulations Personal Information Protection Policy (Japanese) Received the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s New Diversity and norms regarding personal information while working to http://www.sekisui.co.jp/privacy_policy/index.html Management Selection 100 in fiscal 2016 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 45 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Third-Party Opinion President Mitsuo Ogawa Craig Consulting Co., Ltd. Mr. Ogawa graduated from Waseda University and gained experience at a major manufacturer of automotive-related products before earning a The Sekisui Chemical Group CSR Report: Master of Business Administration at the University of Pittsburgh. He then worked at Sanwa Research Institute and PwC Consulting before striking out on his own in 2004. Engaged in the field of consulting through to the CSR in SHIFT 2019 present day, Mr. Ogawa’s fields of expertise include organizational theory and the revitalization of human resources. Among a host of publications, he has authored such articles as “How ISO 26000 Will Change Management” and “How to Raise CSR Corporate Value” both issued by Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. Mr. Ogawa is a visiting professor of the Commerce and Business Graduate School of Management at Nagoya University. 䠄TRANSLATION䠅 More than just a regular report, the integrated report is a narrative about the its management plans. However, there are a few issues that I would like to Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report future vision of a company, a story about how it improves corporate value, one point out. Firstly, I would like to see a stronger correlation between the key June 12, 2017 Mr. Teiji Koge, that organically ties together financial and non-financial information. An performance indicators (KPIs) of the new CSR Medium-term Plan and the President and Representative Director, increasing number of companies are publishing integrated reports, but many Medium-term Management Plan. Page 10 of the CSR Report presents the Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Masahiko Sugiyama of these reports merely tack on some CSR articles to the financial information Company’s new targets. Instead of just listing targets for the three Representative Director Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. section, missing the point of publishing an integrated report. Companies that prominences as KPIs for CSR, I think an explanation about how they tie in with 3-3-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo are genuinely trying to link CSR to their corporate value will describe in detail the management targets of SHIFT 2019 and their impact would be useful. how CSR measures impact corporate value in their medium-term While a challenge to do, I believe this would help readers’ understanding of We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the material sustainability information (the “sustainability information”) indicated with for the year ended March 31, 2017 included in the “CSR Report 2017” (including the “CSR management plans, for example. The Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR report is how the new CSR targets fit in the story about improving corporate value. Report 2017 Data Book (PDF)”) (the “Report”) of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (the “Company”). well worth reading in this regard. In 2017, the Sekisui Chemical Group unveiled The second issue is personnel-related targets. Human resources are The Company’s Responsibility The Company is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in accordance with the calculation and a new Medium-term Management Plan called “SHIFT 2019 -Fusion-”. This positioned as a key element in the management foundation of SHIFT 2019. As reporting standard adopted by the Company (CSR Report 2017 Data Book (PDF): Calculation Standards of Key Performance Indicators) and “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” issued by the management plan clearly outlines how ESG (environment, society and a company engaged in globalization, it is satisfying to see Sekisui Chemical aim Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (the “J-sus”). Greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty for reasons such as incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine governance) will lead to improvements in corporate value. In the truest sense, for more diversity in its management strategy, but the main focus is on emissions factors and numerical data needed to combine emissions of different gases. Our Independence and Quality Control this signifies the beginnings of an ambitious and innovative drive to take on empowering women and hiring people with disabilities, which seems We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, challenges and tell an “integrated” story with financial and non-financial somewhat lacking as a KPI. I think the Sekisui Chemical Group should set more objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and information to all, both inside and outside the Company. I give high marks to ambitious targets, like increasing the ratio of local hires in management Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and management’s forward-looking stance on these disclosures. positions for its global workforce. applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our Responsibility To be more specific, I hope everyone has read President Teiji Koge’s A third issue is internal dissemination. Pages 14-17 of the CSR Report Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the sustainability information based on the procedures we feature a dialogue between the R&D division and external development have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with concisely conveyed opening remarks in the Top Message of this CSR report. On the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board page four, he explains the Company’s two-pronged growth strategy based on partners. Last year, I wrote in a third-party opinion that Sekisui Chemical should (“IAASB”), and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the IAASB, and the Practical Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information, issued by the J-sus. “prominences” (competitive advantages) and “living and environmental engage in dialogue with stakeholders, and I am impressed with how fast The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and contribution” (business opportunities), and plans to increase product lines that management responded. Employees that read this will be able to readily reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. These procedures also included the following: 䞉Evaluating whether the Company’s methods for estimates are appropriate and had been consistently applied. However, enhance both aspects of this strategy as growth engines. The strength of his understand the social issues and topics that the R&D Center is tackling. In our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or reperforming the estimates. 䞉Undertaking site visits to assess the completeness of the data, data collection methods, source data and relevant determination is evident from the establishment of the CSR Management addition to this dialogue, I would like to see management emphasize assumptions applicable to the sites. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, Office in the Business Strategy Department to facilitate collaboration between sustainability in-house internally through its new Medium-term Management a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance business planning, investor relations and public relations, as well as a Plan. For example, when President Koge explains to employees the new engagement. commitment to making ¥12 billion in “environmental contribution” Medium-term Management Plan, perhaps he could spare some time to talk Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that investments over the next three years as investments in growth. This year also about CSR leadership as a part of employee training programs. It would be like causes us to believe that the Company’s sustainability information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company and Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance marked the start of a new management strategy for the Sekisui Chemical Sekisui Chemical to have the overseas supervision section, which was newly and Registration Criteria, issued by the J-sus. The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Assurance report issued in the Group. I hope other companies imitate the information disclosure practices of created in the Business Strategy Department, plan leadership training courses Japanese language. Member of the Sekisui Chemical Group, as it leads the pack by clearly embedding ESG in in global sustainability with the Human Resources Department. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited In Response to the Third-party Opinion I would like to thank Mr. Ogawa for his valuable input. that the sustainable elements incorporated into the Summary of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Procedures At the Sekisui Chemical Group, we strongly believe Group’s new Medium-term Management Plan Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 that in fulfilling our corporate social responsibility we SHIFT2019-Fusionand our thoughts toward the new Check of final are better placed to enhance our corporate value. This CSR conceptual scheme that takes into consideration Quality control Submittal of is in turn the very essence of our efforts to help ensure the integration of business and CSR become deeply Formulation of plan Performance Reporting edition of check assurance report CSR Report a sustainable society. entrenched through Vision Caravans held in Japan and We will take his advice about increasing the overseas as well as the planning and implementation of correlation between management targets and CSR CSR training. • Confirmation of scope of • Assurance procedures carried assurance, subject items, out at Sekisui Chemical targets, such as personnel-related targets, and focus on With our sights set firmly to the future, we will information collection Headquarters and visited • A professional outside the • Obtaining management clarifying our “integration” story for improving corporate endeavor to achieve SDGs and other key targets. Both Yoshiyuki Hirai methods, etc. business sites (performance • Reporting results of confirmation letter • Follow-up on items such as assurance engagement value. We aim to promote deeper understanding among management and all employees will think long and Director, Managing Executive Officer • Decision on assurance of procedures including field completed procedures, • Submittal of Independent matters pointed out in Step 3 team checks Responsible for Corporate Finance & procedures, schedule observation, analytical matters for comment, etc. Practitioner’s Assurance both internal and external stakeholders about the CSR hard, and work in unison to strengthen a structure that is Accounting Department, appropriateness of the (Headquarters, business procedures, documentary assurance procedures Report initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group. capable of enhancing corporate value. Head of Business Strategy Department sites to be visited for verification, inspection of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. verification), etc. materials, and inquiries) Moving forward, we will work diligently to ensure 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 47 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For more information contact: CSR Management Office, Business Strategy Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) TEL.: +81-3-5521-0839 E-mail: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, is used in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. Waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding process. The CSR Report 2017 (including the Data Book (PDF)) has been reviewed for assurance by an independent third party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. This demonstrates that this report satisfies the necessary criteria established by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (J-SUS; http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, intended to assure the reliability of sustainability information. Published: June 28, 2017. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 28, 2016.
