CSR Report 2016 Report target period Jan 2016 to Dec 2016 Report publication date July 2017 RUBYCON CORPORATION RUBYCON GROUP COMPANIES Editorial policy Contents Editorial policy ................................................ 1 This report is prepared as an annual report of Terms included in this report .......................... 1 non-financial information about the Messages from the top of company ............... 2 environmental and social efforts of Rubycon Corporate Philospphy (Foundation Spirit) ..... 3 Group Companies. Overview of Rubycon Group Companies ........ 4 Listed items are summaries of concrete CSR policy and System ................................. 5 examples of activity policy and actual results Consumer Safety and Protection ............... 5 in 2016 concerning the important issues we Fair Business Practices .............................. 9 are working on. Organization Governance ........................ 10 In addition, information related to CSR CSR Procurement Guidelines .................. 11 activities is also posted on the website, for CSR Plan in Rubycon ............................... 12 your convenience. CSR Promotion System ........................... 12 CSR Activities ............................................... 13 Terms included in this report Security of Product Safety ........................ 13 Response to Product Accident and Failure . 13 Report Target Period C0C: Claim 0 Campaign ............................ 14 This report basically covers activities between Factory Recognition Commendation ........ 14 January and December 2016, but some Improvement of Customer Satisfaction...... 14 activities of 2017 may be included partially. ISO/TS Audit and Internal Audit ............... 15 Green Procurement .................................. 15 Target Organizations Compliance Training ................................. 15 Rubycon and Company refer to Rubycon Environmental Measures ............................. 16 Corporation, and Rubycon group or group Reduction of Environmental Burden ........ 16 companies primarily mean Rubycon Environment Clean-up Activity ................. 17 Corporation and it's domestic affiliates. Human Right Protection, Labor Practices ..... 18 Environmental performance data are figures of Respect of Human Rights ........................ 18 Rubycon Corporation. If any affiliated companies Human Resource Development are included, individual notes should be added (Education and Training) .......... 18 to clarify it. Creation of Comfortable Workplaces ........... 20 Child-raising and Nursing Care ................ 20 Health and Safety ..................................... 20 Baseball Team Activities ........................... 21 Relation with Labor Union ............................ 22 Labor-Management Council ..................... 22 Bus tours hosted by the Labor Union ....... 22 Participation in Community and Developmen ............................................... 23 Social Contribution Activities ...................... 23 Contribution to Revitalization of Community ............ 24 Major Performances in 2016 and Goals and Plans in 2017 ........ 26.27 Send inquiry to: Rubycon Corporation Administrative Department Tel：0265-72-7112 web: http://www.rubycon.co.jp/en 1 Messages from the top of Company Founding spirit Tradition and Enterprise, Effort and Study, and Faith and Trust These words are included in the phrases of our company song. All employees work together to establish Company Tradition and pass it down the generations with Enterprise Spirit. Every employee is conscious of Effort and Study. Faith is essential to win Trust of customers, shareholders and community residents as well as our employees. These are reflected to our company song as the Founding Spirit. We have been providing products over 60 years under the spirit. Also in the future, we will continue to hold the spirit as our origin, so as to provide reliable and satisfactory products with our experience on technology and quality, and to contribute to creation of affluent society. Aiming at contribution to better and sustainable society Social environments in our country are radically changing such as the falling birthrate and the aging population, information-oriented society and globalization. Under these circumstances, we recognize that it is most important for us to sincerely and steadily work on what we can contribute through our businesses for sustainable growth of society and our group companies. We are also promoting CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) activities by setting compliance, environmental initiatives, participation in communities, human rights and labor practices as priority areas. Our products are not usually seen directly, but they are used in every part of society. Through continued efforts and technological innovation, we will continue to create new value necessary for society and aim to contribute to a sustainable and better society. We appreciate your continued support to Rubycon Group Companies. Itsuaki Tonouchi, President and C.E.O Rubycon Corporation 2 Corporate Philospphy (Foundation Spirit) Company Creed Let's be the No.1 in Japan in all aspects! Employees' Motto 5 Corporate Philosophies 1. Be honest and faithful in daily living 2. Work and live properly 3. Be loving in all aspects 4. Self examine today's deeds and be grateful of no regrets 5. Believe in yourself and believe in hopes Rubycon Company Song Supervised by Teruo Tonouchi (Founder) Lyrics by Sen Kinoshita Composed by Yoshihiro Nishimura Arranged by Akira Sakashita 1. Shinano surrounded by many mountains Senjo in the east, Komagatake in the west covered with virgin snow for thousands years tradition and enterprise, Oh! Rubycon strive together hand in hand 2. Water going away to the south eternal Milky Way in the center of the sky washing out rocks without standing still efforts and training, Oh! Rubycon study together hand in hand 3. Thousands of flowers on the ground brilliant Big Dipper in the sky swear to Home Town Ina faith and trust, Oh! Rubycon advance together hand in hand 3 Overview of Rubycon Group Companies Japan Production Bases Overseas Production Bases Japan Sales Bases Overseas Sales Offices 4 CSR policy and System Consumer Safety and Protection Rubycon products contribution to society << Rubycon products contribute to society through power electronics technologies >> Urgent global themes such as energy issues are faced by societies. Core technologies to control energy with countermeasures to avoid escalation of global warming with power electronics are of primary importance. Rubycon is proposing capacitors to various power conversion devices to contribute higher efficiency, longer life and miniaturization. << Conductive Polymer Aluminum Solid Electrolytic Capacitor >> Conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors have a wider temperature range, are more compact, have lower ESR, and higher resistance to ripple current than other aluminum electrolytic capacitors. These features enable high-efficiency power supply design and can contribute to the reduced number of parts. The net result of this capacitor technology is energy savings improved efficiency. 5 << Example of parts reduction with conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitor >> << Power Film Capacitor >> Voltage and current of main circuits have been increased to improve efficiency in power electronics. Most notably, in applications such as solar/wind power and automotive. Demand of large film capacitors (referred to as power film capacitors) is increasing. We are addressing deposition technology and low ESL (inductance) designs to improve efficiency and improve miniaturization. 6 << Screw Terminal Type Aluminum Electrolytic Capacitor >> Screw Terminal Type Aluminum Electrolytic Capacitors are used for main circuit of power electronics together with power film capacitors. We are downsizing dimensions and raising withstand voltage with our independent development of new electrolytes and adoption of high capacitance etched foil. Stud screw type capacitors have efficient heat radiation structure and high resistance to ripple current, so as to contribute to efficient packaging and downsizing of equipment. We are further addressing to develop new electrolyte and foil for higher voltage use, which is important to circuits for the next-generation power electronics semiconductor. 7 << Electric Double Layer Capacitor >> Electric double layer capacitors use electric double layer produced on the boundary between the electrode and electrolyte (as dielectric) for storing electric charges. This capacitor realizes quick charge-discharge cycles as well as long life since there aren't chemical reactions to store charges. This capacitor is ideal for applications requiring momentary large current such as power assist and energy regeneration. If the capacitor is used as the main power for rechargeable equipment, maintenance is reduced. 8 Fair Business Practices We are compliant regarding relevant statutes, internal regulations, social norms and ethics, and excluding relations with antisocial forces, so as to promote business activities through fair and good competition and to secure safe and ease of customers in consideration of views and positions of ordinary citizens. Compliance We are observing all statutes relating to business (labor, environment, public welfare, trade, industry, commerce, national tax and civil affairs), and as well as conducting fair business and transactions. On the basis of our internal regulations, we are developing such activities to our group companies through mutual improvement. We have published Rubycon Group Code of Conduct conforming to EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition), and are providing it to all employees and group companies. If any compliance violation is found, we will seek accurate facts to determine the cause followed by strict action to prevent recurrence. Internal Audit We have a designated audit department under the president's direct supervision to audit fair and proper performance of internal activities in accordance with relevant statutes, operation policy and internal regulations. The department will further provide advice to improve and correct our business as well as the risks for compliance in organizational activities. This audit covers all organizations in each company group. Risk Management In addition to Risk Management Activities conducted since 2012, we are strengthening internal systems and reviewing relevant internal regulation since inquiries from customers on code of conduct and ethical risk management are increasing. We will also assess effectiveness of disaster contingency plan as well as reviewing BCP (Business Continuity Plan) for disaster and unexpected contingency. Protection of Intellectual Properties (Measures against Counterfeit Products) We, have participated in the IIPPF (International Intellectual Property Protection Forum) so as to cooperate with various entities and companies for eradicating counterfeits. Protection and Control of Information Misuse of information important to corporate management will have significant impact on relations of trust with partners and their management. We have established security policy and privacy policy recognizing importance of information assets. We give the first priority in risk management and BCP to the policies. We are protecting and controlling information assets through education of employees and various security measures and activities. 9 Organization Governance CSR Policy Rubycon's CSR System to accomplish corporate social responsibility is shown at the right. Decision-making is performed referring to the vision, the employees motto and the Global Compact, on the basis of the foundation spirit. All of these support us to remain a reliable company to stakeholders such as customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community, and to drive steady CSR activities. Rubycon Group Code of Conduct The purpose of Rubycon Group's Code of Conduct is to define business activities of our employees complying with laws and observing environmental responsibility and corporate ethics under a safe labor environment. It complies with the EICC Code of Conduct. << Human Rights and Labor >> 1. No forced labor << Fair Trade and Ethics >> 2. No inhumane treatment 1. No corruption or bribery 3. No child labor 2. No abuse of dominant bargaining position 4. No discrimination 3. No improper advantage 5. Reasonable wage 4. No anticompetitive act 6. Working hours 5. Provision of accurate information on 7. Right to organize of employees product and service 6. Respect to intellectual property << Safety and Health >> 7. Appropriate export control 1. Machine Safeguarding 8. Disclosure of information 2. Workplace safety 9. Prevention and early detection of 3. Workplace sanitation irregularity 4. Occupational injury and illness 10. Prohibition of reprisal 5. Emergency preparedness 11. Responsible mineral procurement 6. Physically demanding work 7. Facility safety and sanitation << Quality and Safety >> 8. Health of employees 1. Security of product safety << Environment >> 2. Quality management system 1. Product content restrictions 2. Chemical materials to be used in << Information Security >> production process 1. Safeguarding for threat to computer 3. Environmental management system 4. Minimal impact on environment (e.g. waste network water, sludge, exhaust gas) 2. No leakage of personal information 5. Environmental permits and administrative 3. No leakage of confidential information of approval customers and third parties 6. Effective utilization of resources and energy (3R) 7. Reduction of greenhouse gas emission << Social Action >> 8. Waste reduction 1. Contribution to society and community 9. Disclosure of environmental preservation activities 10. Preservation of biodiversity 10 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact In October 2011, Rubycon Corporation expressed the support for the universal principles about Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption upheld by United Nations, and officially joined the UN Global Compact. Rubycon Corporation contributes to society thru business activities, by supporting 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact «Human rights» Principle 1 ： Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 ： make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. «Labor» Principle 3 ： Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 ： the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 ： the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 ： the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. «Environment» Principle 7 ： Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 ： undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 ： encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. «Anti-corruption» Principle10 ： Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribe Rubycon CSR Procurement Guidelines Rubycon Group is striving to strengthen supply chain management with a view to business continuity and sustainable value creation. We have established the Rubycon Group Procurement Policy based on our management philosophy, and we are striving to strengthen compliance with laws and social norms as well as showing our basic stance on procurement inside and outside the company through our website. Based on the objective of this procurement policy, Request to valued Suppliers was established by emphasizing compliance with laws and social norms such as respect for human rights and rejection of anti-social forces, prohibition of corruption and bribery, promotion of fair and impartial businesses, and consideration for the environment. With these two guidelines as the two driving wheels of procurement activities, we are working on building and strengthening relationships based on equitable, fair and transparent transactions with suppliers. Rubycon Group Procurement Policy << Compliance with laws and social norms >> We will comply with laws and social norms (Respect for human rights such as prohibition of child labor and forced labor, laws, standards, treaties, etc. of various countries including prevention of corruption etc.), and conduct sound and fair corporate activities. Suppliers of materials and services necessary for the production of Rubycon products are also requested to comply with laws and social norms. << Green procurement and environmental consideration >> In line with the Rubycon Environmental Policy, we established green procurement standards, we continue the environmentally friendly materials procurement activities, and we strive to realize a sustainable human society and sound environment. 11 << Promotion of equitable and fair business transactions >> We open widely to both domestic and international suppliers (including candidates of suppliers), and conduct fair and impartial business transactions in accordance with established policies and procedures. << Supplier selection policy >> In selecting suppliers, we are committed to make complehensive judgement among the following factors: compliance with laws and social norms, environmental consideration, ensuring stable quality and safety, stable and reliable supply, stable management foundation, superior technical capability, appropriate information protection, respect of other companies' intellectual property, compliance with the designated delivery date, appropriate price, etc. << Enhancement of partner relationship with suppliers >> We strive to build and maintain trust relationship based on mutual understanding with suppliers. << Prohibition of giving and receiving of private benefit >> We prohibit employees from receiving inappropriate personal benefits (including entertainment and gifts) from suppliers without exception. CSR Plan in Rubycon CSR Promotion System CSR activities are positioned as the business itself, and awareness of all employees to CSR is raised under instruction of the president. Each of the conferences and councils is regularly held, and decisions are penetrated into the whole group including divisions and affiliated companies to share problems. CSR management is promoted, emphasizing interaction with customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community. We are securing compliance under the spirit that a corporate is a public institution. We provide proper feedback of requests from stakeholders. 12 CSR Activities Security of Product Safety We closely check compliance and non-use of banned substances in planning phase of product development, in order to secure product safety. We also describe safety instructions in our catalog and delivery specifications. We perform reliability tests with various processes to secure safety of products to be manufactured. We conduct reliability tests in various phases, including process design phase to secure correct materials, specifications and production conditions. During the mass production phase we check reliability of all products through regular sampling, also during the product development and planning phases. Such tests include reliability and the general process is confirmed in addition to safety, so as to maintain the reliability of Rubycon products. We are striving to supply safe and reliable products now and in the future. Response to Product Accident and Failure Quality Assurance Center (QA Center) receives complaints and investigation requests for accident and failure from customers through each sales office. QA Center uses special equipment for the primary investigation of returns and notifies complaint information to the concerned factory on the current day. Then the center starts investigation of production record and the root cause of the failure. Quality Control Section in the concerned factory performs expansion estimation and prepares measures to report to QA Center. QA Center reports the measures to each customer. QA Center further performs validation and horizontal development of the measures through internal audit, so as to confirm the change. Under the motto I guarantee the quality, all of Rubycon's members are aiming to win customer satisfaction as well as addressing quality improvements. 13 C0C: Claim 0 Campaign We accept every complaint from customers with sincerity in order to improve customer satisfaction and quality related with product safety. We have started quality improvement activities as the manufacturer responsible for our products, so as to attain our goal Claim 0. We started Claim 0 Campaign (C0C) in May, 2012. In the result of the fifth year, 60% reduction in the complaint rate (number of complaints/output) has been kept. We are addressing to C0C activities to attain Claim 0. * ppm (Parts Per Million) denotes complaint rate. Factory recognition commendation We evaluate the outcome of C0C activities by factory, and we grant a President's Award every year. In 2016, the Akita Rubycon Daisen Factory, which achieved the zero complaint for 24 consecutive months, won the President's Award. Improvement of Customer Satisfaction We have the quality policy of manufacture to win customer satisfaction that provides customers with relief and trust through 5 pillars of cooperation power, promptness, analyzing ability, quality control ability, small group activities. We are addressing Customer Satisfaction through quality to contribute to the society and the future. We conduct customer questionnaire every year including cost, delivery and service as well as quality, so as to improve customer satisfaction 14 ISO/TS audit and internal audit We have acquired ISO 9001, TS 16949 and ISO 14001 and are engaged in production activities based on internal regulations and standards. As well as receiving audits by third-party organizations in order to confirm whether the production actvities are conducted firmly in accordance with the standard requirements, we are also promoting interconnection among various sections in the company and working on improvement of mutual levels, by conducting internal audits by the auditor team whose representatives are selected from each division. We plan to acquire OHSAS 18001 certification within 2017. Green Procurement We are purchasing materials, parts and components for Rubycon products from partners who are proactively reducing environmental burdens and addressing to reduce substances in the Environmentally-controlled Substance List, and observing statutes and social norms of each country. We will continue such activities in the future. Control of Banned and Hazard Substances We have specified our Banned and Abolished Substance List for banned and hazardous substances and are continually updating it according to customers' requirements of green procurement including RoHS and REACH regulations. We have a check system for RoHS regulated substances in material reception stage through regular XRF analysis for samples and inspection of high-precision analysis data. We also have a material tracing system to prevent reception, incorporation and contamination of banned and abolished substances. In the system, a barcode is used to identify all materials under cooperation of suppliers to establish material traceability. We have a database to trace material information within 24 hours to prevent environmental defects from being released. We are continually striving for preserving the comfortable environment with the catchphrase I preserve the globe. Compliance Training We conducted in-house training for competition low compliance. Executive Training in June: 10 attended Sales Training (Headquaters) in June: 7 attended Sales Training (Tokyo & Osaka) in July: 34 attended Sales Training (Overseas sales offices) in July-August: 11 attended 15 Environmental Measures Reduction of Environmental Burden Energy Saving Rubycon has been designated as a specific proponent according to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy in 2010, and have been addressing to annual energy saving rate more than 1%, working on measures of saving energy of lighting, air-conditioning, compressors and production equipment. Energy saving achievement was 1.2 % in 2016. CO2 Reduction We strive to achieve annual 1% reduction of CO2 emission. CO2 emission in 2015 (April, 2015 March, 2016) was 5,981t. (1.5% reduction against the prior year) We achieved size & weight reduction and performance improvement of our products through R&D to respond to customers requests. We continue further improvement in size reduction to reduce CO2 emission and contribute on energy conservation. Promotion of Recycling Waste Plastics: We maintain 100% recycling of waste plastics. Waste Products: We maintain 100% recycling of waste products. Paper: We segregate paper from combustible waste to pass on 65% of combustibles to recycling. Miscellaneous: We are addressing to recycling to establish Zero Waste Emission. PRTR（Pollutant Release and Transfer Register） We prepare annual report according to the PRTR Act. The achievements in recent years are as follows: 2013: 430kg transferred 2014: 340kg transferred 2015: 180kg transferred 2016: 130kg transferred Reduction of Waste Disposal We are working to reduce waste. Recent achievements are as follows: Year 2013: 391t Year 2014: 366t Year 2015: 334t 16 Environmental Clean-up Activity We, at Rubycon, are operating research, development and production in natural blessings. As expressed with our environmental catchphrase I preserve the environment, we are continually striving for cleaning of our premises preserving nature, in order to make visitors comfortable. We have Environmental Preservation Section dedicated for daily premises maintenance, and all employees clean up the premises in the early morning every month. << Voices >> Participation in Environment Clean-up Activity / Yuzo Shiba, Large-can Design Group While having often opportunities of meeting with customers visiting us, and many of those customers praise the wonderful environment around our facilities. Every time I hear such words, I am proud of it and I certainly pledge to keep up in cooperation for environmental beautification together with coworkers even a little. In addition, we do beautification indoors when weather is bad, but we think that we can clean up the place we normally do not reach, and then we can feel comfortable working afterwards. I also care about the places I do not usually see, so I would like to continue participating in these clean-up activities in the future. 17 Respect of Human Rights, Personnel Training Respect of Human Rights Our employee regulations specify equal opportunity such that employees are not discriminated by their nationality, religion, sex or social position. These regulations also specify strict compliance of prohibition of forced labor , prohibition of inhumane treatment , prohibition of child labor , restriction of dangerous and harmful work and restriction of dangerous and harmful work for pregnancies as stipulated by law. We are further addressing control of working hours to prevent overwork. We have also formally participated in UN Global Compact proposed by the UN in October, 2011, and put up our original poster in each of our departments including our group companies and overseas distributors in order to comply with the 10 rules. We are thoroughly instructing the importance to respect and cooperate with each other for pursuing work through personnel training courses described below. Personnel Training Employee Training << Hierarchy Courses >> ・ Intensive Fresh Recruit Training (April, every year) Intensive training for 10 days is provided to fresh recruits to build up basic skill as an employee of Rubycon. Group discussion over hours is included to fully communicate each other. ・ Fresh Recruit Follow-up Training (November, every year) Fresh recruit follow-up training is provided 6 months after employment. In the training, each trainee reviews his or her acts in the 6 months to determine the extent of accomplishment of the target set on the employment, and sets a new target for the second year. ・ Young Employee Training (4th or 5th year after employment) This training is provided to motivate each young employee to proactively expand his or her work scope beyond his or her duty, so as to grow into mid-level employee. ・ Class 1 Employee Qualification Training (for mid-level employees 7-10 years from employment) We have an ability-based grade system, and Class 1 employee corresponds to mid-level employee. This training is aimed to improve awareness of responsibility as mid-level employee, so as to pursue work in wider viewpoint. 18 ・ Beginning Supervisor Training (for beginning chiefs, leaders and managers) We provide beginning supervisors with training of knowledge and ability to lead workers, expectations to supervisor, Rubycon personnel system, and points on personnel evaluation. ・ Beginning Management Training (for beginning general managers) We provide beginning management with training of role and responsibility of management, goal setting, and communication with staff. << Language Courses >> ・ English Course (Primary class, Development class) We provide primary English course every week to develop global persons with external native speaking instructors. ・ Chinese Course (Primary class, Development class) We provide primary English course every week to develop global persons with external native speaking instructors. << Correspondence Courses >> ・ We update the brochure for correspondence courses every year so as to promote self-development of each employee. We prepare e-learning courses compatible with smart phone and tablet, so as to establish environment for easy learning. We have further compulsory courses as a promotion requirement for comprehensive-work employees. << Other Professional Courses>> ・ Mental Healthcare Course We believe that physical and mental health of employees is the first step to create dynamic workplace. Then we accept an instructor from Industrial Health Promotion Center Nagano once every few years to hold mental healthcare course. ・ Telephone Manners Course We have telephone manner training for personnel with frequent telephone response each year. Such personnel participate in a telephone manners competition. 6 employees participated in the contest in Ina and Komagane area last year, and demonstrated their performances. 19 Creation of Comfortable Workplaces Child-raising and Nursing Care Establishment of Child-raising and Nursing Vacation Regulation We have Child-raising and Nursing Vacation Regulation complying with the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. Many of our employees use child-raising vacation to return to work. To support child-raising, employee raising a child up to the first grade of primary school can select working hours 2 hours shorter than regular at most. Establishment of Healthcare Vacation Healthcare vacation system is our original one to accumulate annual paid holidays not used up to 10 days for a year with the retention of 2 years at most. This system helps need of long cure due to accident, injury or disease. Hourly Paid Holiday We also have an hourly paid holiday system in which an employee can have hourly holiday up to 3 days in a year. It is useful for late attendance or early leaving due to going to a hospital for one's own or a family's sake. Acquisition of Kurumin Mark We have been addressing to the next-generation development support, and approved Kurumin Mark by Nagano Labor Bureau on August 29, 2008 according to the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been awarded the second approval in 2015 for the activities conducted between 2011 and 2015. Mothers' Meeting We gather female employees in child-raising vacation and working raising children, so as to exchange child care information. It is a good opportunity to consult childcare problems. Safety and Health Employees are company's resources. We wish them to be health and safe in work and to be happy. For the purpose, we are pursuing various activities as follows. ・ Health Patrol (Twice a year) ・ Patrol of Health Representative (Weekly) ・ KYT Activity(Once a year) Kiken Yochi Training meaning the foreseeing danger situations training. ・ Hiyari-Hatto Proposal Activity (Once a year) ・ Factory Environment Survey (Twice a year) ・ Plant Environment Survey (Twice a year) ・ VDT Environment Survey(Annual) ・ Risk Assessment ・ Young Drivers Club Photo of Disaster Drill ・ Disaster Drill ・ Safety and Health Education 20 Address to Mental Healthcare As described in the section of professional training, we provide mental healthcare training with external instructors. We take appropriate actions for persons of mental disorder in cooperation of personnel section, company nurse and company doctor. Health Consultation Company nurse picks up 3 to 4 persons every month from long-hour workers and employees with findings in medical check, to consult company doctor on monthly visit. Stress Check Based on the amended Occupational Health and Safety Law, we conducted a stress check at the health checkup opportunity in April 2016. 642 employees took the examination of stress check, and several of them chose to take an interview with industrial doctors. The Health and Safety Committee also reviewed the group analysis results of stress check, and urged the related departments and sections to make improvements in their working circumstances. KYT (Danger Prediction Training) activities KYT activities are conducted at each section of the company once a year, by having section members think about what kind of dangers exist in the workplace, decide important issues among them to work on, study how to resolve them, and set the goals by when to resolve them. By doing it, we encourage them to have a habit looking around for searching potential dangers in the workplace. Hiyari-Hatto(Near miss) suggestion activities Hiyari-Hatto (near miss) is literally a thing that makes you feel emotion of fear in an unexpected event by a step before a serious accident. Heinrich's is one of the empirical rules, and the content is that there are 29 minor accidents and 300 near-miss incidents (hiyari-hatto) exist behind one serious accident. According to such rule, we collect from each section reports about such incidents once a year, and take appropriate measures to eliminate risk of accidents. Baseball team activities Rubycon's soft baseball club, one of the most powerful teams in the prefecture, has been very active although with only 14 members. They achived remarkable results in 2016, e.g., they won the best 4 position at 71st Emperor's Cup Nagano Prefecture Tournament, the championship at 71st National Sports Festival Nagano Prefecture Tournament, and the championship at 61st Central Japan Toshi-taiko Baseball Competition Nagano Prefecture Tournamaent. We expect that they keep up their best as a representative of the community. 21 Relation with Labor Union Labor-management Council We have labor-management council with labor union of the company, for the common purpose of development of company and happiness of employees. The council is held as necessary at any time to find resolution through discussion, including the regular Spring Labormanagement Negotiation in every spring. Bus tours hosted by the Labor Union As part of welfare programs, we hold several bus tours a year for employees. Destinations are various, including cultural heritage, factory tour, theme park, etc. Normally about 40 people participate in a tour. By doing one day activity together with people in other departments who are less involved in daily work, it helps revitalize communication beyond the fences between departments. At Ise Shrine At Tomioka Silk Mill 22 Participation in Community and Development Social Contribution Activities Acceptance of Internship and factory tour In the view of social service and youth development, we accept the requests of internship for students of junior high-school, high-school and university, businesspeople and disabled people as mush as possible. Such requests are increasing year after year, and we are going to accept to the utmost extent. 《Track Record of Internship and Factory Tour in 2016》 HeadMonth Subjects Duration count March Children of employees who are entering Primary School (Tour) 11 1day March College/High School students hosted by Miyada-mura (Tour) 30 1day May 2nd-year students in Ina-nishi high school (Internship) 2 2days May 2nd-year students in Harutomi junior high school (Internship) 2 3 days May Students in Nishiminowa junior high school (Internship) 3 3 days May Students in Harutomi junior high school (Internship) 1 2 days August Industry observations by 3rd-year students and teachers (Tour) 42 1 day September 2nd-year students in Ina Tobu junior high school (Internship) 3 2 days Participation in Clean-up Activity around Tenryu River Area We are participating in clean-up activities around Tenryu River Area (Tenryu River Environmental Picnic) every year to cooperate with community residents, as a part of Local Beautification Activity. The activities work as parent-child communication, as children of employees participate in them. Road Clean-up around Company We perform road clean-up activity around our headquarters in time with monthly company clean-up activity, so as to cooperate with Local Beautification Activity. Promotion of local firefighting activities and Japanese Red Cross Service activitiess We promote cooperation with and participation in community activities. Local firefighting activities and local Red Cross service activities are especially important for local active disaster prevention and local welfare. We treat absence due to participation in such activities as paid holidays. 23 Participation in Ina-matsuri Festival We participate in Ina-matsuri Festival every year with a dancing team. The dancing team performs powerful dance in gratitude for the community, in order to encourage the festival. << Voices >> Participation in Ina Matsuri Festival / Naohiro Nakamura, Information System Group (Photo: the first from the right) I participated in Rubycon team last year. In the practice of dancing after work I fought hard to memorize the choreography, and I was able to improve while having fun by deepening exchanges and advising each other among the youngsters in the company. On the day of the Ina festival, I was able to dance with full power, while touching many people in local community. Honorably, I was pleased that Rubycon team was named as an award at the Dance Contest . I would like to continue promoting the vibrant Rubycon and raising the festival through dancing in the future. Contribution to revitalization of community Tonouchi Clock Memorial Museum Approximately 250 mechanical clocks mainly from Europe in the 18th to 19th century are exhibited at the Museum, all of which are still counting time. Deceased Mr. Teruo Tonouchi used to wish that people sympathize with the passion for the science of the predecessors and children foster interest in science through complicated mechanical clocks, and wish to give some help to improve regional culture. The museum was built with such his wishes, and it is quietly standing in a grove in which more than 1,000 rhododendrons were planted. The clock museum that is maintained with the consideration to the preservation of natural environment, and that with the carillon's bell ringing in the forest, is a well-known cultural facility of the area. 24 Tonouchi Memorial Park The park was donated by deceased Mr. Teruo Tonouchi, to the gratitude of his 90 year birthday celebration. In the park, more than 100 cherry trees were planted, of which majority are turmeric cherry trees carried from Yuri-honjo City of Akita Pref., and as well some red peony cherry blossoms and weeping cherry trees. It has been open to the community and has become a place for relaxation. Lending the baseball stadium We have a Rubycon stadium equiped with lighting for night games. While the company baseball team is away from hometown due to expedition or else, the stadium is open to community. It is used by various organizations, including as the venue of the final game of the local junior high school soft baseball tournament. 25 Major Performances in 2016 and Goals and Plans in 2017 Major Minor Item Goal and Plan in 2016 Major Performances in 2016 Goal and Plan in 2017 Item Submitted COP to the headquarters of UN Global Compact on July 14, CSR Management Policy to comply with EICC 2016 Code of Conduct, Support of To promote priority themes Corporate Governance 10 rules of UN Global Interaction with in the group Compact, and develop them to Declared our policy to comply with EICC Code of Conduct and support of Stakeholders business activities 10 rules of UN Global Compact on Rubycon Website. Promotion of transparent Made out CSR Report 2016 and published on our website including Code Creation of CSR report and management of Conduct. publication on our website. Corporate Compliance training to Governance extend to all divisions of the Improvement of compliance Compliance training was conducted for Managements and Sales Division. company. Continuation of and internal control Internal audit was conducted on 8 departments. internal audits. Promotion and continuation Respect of Human Promotion of human rights Performed human rights education in fresh recruit training (April) and fresh of human rights Rights / No enlightenment recruit follow-up training (October 16). enlightenment activity Discrimination Performed Chinese courses (basic and application courses) and English courses (basic and advanced courses) once a week. February 11: Personnel appraisers Training for primary appraisers by an external lecturer to have them reconfirm the basis of personnel evaluation. Improvement and Human Resources Improvement of employee September 22: Manager's training for the newly appointed managers performance of training Development training (6 people) to have them acquire the basic skills as managerial positions. program November 23: Skil-up training for the mid-level employees (28 people) covering the expectations as a supervisor and the situation of the whole company, to have them improve skills for future growth. 6 fresh employees participated in the telephone manners contest, and demonstrated their performance. Continued employment Continuance of extended according to motivation and Continuance of extended employment system (master and adviser) employment system ability of each retired Promotion of multiskilling employee Support to Work Diversity Imprementation of acquisition Expansion of allowance of May 21: Allowance of hourly acquisition of yearly paid vacation became 3 of paid vacation by all hourly acquisition of yearly days from 2 days before. employees togetther, and/or paid vacation pre-planning acquisition. Human Rights / Labor Practices Continuance of measures for Measures for lifestyle diseases Health consultation lifestyle diseases Mental health care for young Risk assessment and improvement activities (monthly review by safety and health committee) Promotion of safety and health in workplace Performed safety and health patrols in the National Labor Health Week and the National Safety Week twice in a year, together with indoor environment clean-up activity, fire drill, sheet-belt use rate survey. To obtain OHSAS18001 Safety and Health certification of Employees Rubycon's soft baseball club, one of the most powerful teams in the Continuation of workplace prefecture, has been very active although with only 14 members. safety and health activity They achived remarkable results in 2016, e.g., they won the best 4 position at 71st Emperor's Cup Nagano Prefecture Tournament, the championship Activation of internal circles at 71st National Sports Festival Nagano Prefecture Tournament, and the championship at 61st Central Japan Toshi-taiko Baseball Competition Nagano Prefecture Tournamaent. We expect that they keep up their best as a representative of the community. Support to childcare and Labor union and management together examined the response to the Amendment of Labor nursing care revised Child Care and Family Care Leave Act enforced in January 2017. Regulations 60 employees participated in Ina Matsuri Festival (Aug. 6). Rubycon Engineering Summer Festival (Aug. 11). As part of welfare programs, several bus tours a year for employees are Cooperation with Promotion of joint events with managed by labor union. Destinations are various, including cultural Continuing promotion of joint Labor Union labor union heritage, factory tour, theme park, etc. Normally about 40 people events with labor union participate in a tour. Participants enjoyed much by visiting Tomioka Sil Mill and Ise Shrine in 2016. Held labor-management council regularly to exchange opinions and to share information. 26 Major Performances in 2016 and Goals and Plans in 2017 Major Minor Item Goal and Plan in 2016 Major Performances in 2016 Goal and Plan in 2017 Item Environmental Continuing approval and Maintenance all over the Maintenance all over the group Management compliance of ISO14001 group Chemicals control WG (every 2 months) to penetrate instructions into the Continuing management of Management of banned group banned substances and substances and hazardous and hazardous and toxic toxic materials Instruction of Green Procurement to suppliers materials Attained 100% recycle of industrial waste D (discarded product) Reduction of industrial waste Reduction of industrial waste and promotion of recycling and promotion of recycling EnvironmentAttained 65.1% recycle of industrial waste A (paper) Environment friendly Business Process To reduce energy To reduce energy consumption Achievement between April 2015 and March 2016 was 1.2 % reduction consumption per capacitor per capacitor by 1% or more against the prior year. by 1% or more compared to compared to the prior year the prior year To reduce CO2 emission 1% or To reduce CO2 emission 1% CO2 emission between April 2015 and March 2016 was 5,981t-CO2, more compared to the prior or more compared to the achieving 1.5 % reduction against the prior year. year prior year The following series were marketed: Development of miniaturized EnvironmentLaunch of compact and 1 series of miniaturized aluminum electrolytic capacitors, 2 series of highand high-ripple products as compatible energy-saving products ripple aluminum electrolytic capacitors, and 1 series of high-ripple environment-friendly Products compatible with environment conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors (hybrid type) products Continuance of risk Risk Management Risk reduction activities Conducted risk reduction activities on CSR items. reduction activities To carry out CSR CSR in the supply chain CSR Procurement Guidelines was formulated. questionnare with suppliers. Fair Competitions Fair Business Practices Compliance in transactions Continuing compliance in and Trades Reviewed the Code of Conduct according to EICC. with suppliers transactions with suppliers Continuing compliance in Compliance in trading Reviewed trading examination system. trading Information Promotion of information Reviewed security control regulations and performed training and Continuing promotion of Protection and security control (critical in risk measures. information security control Control management items) Formation of appropriate intellectual property such as acquisition of patent Protection of company's and Continuation of protection of Protection of right and trademark right others' intellectual property intellectual property and Intellectual Protection of brands and protection of customers' interests through Promotion of anti-counterfeit promotion of anti-counterfeit Properties activities such as eradication of counterfeit goods product measures product measures Respect and protect other companies' intellectual property Establishment of FTA/FMEA Design considering capacitor Performed safety design and quality improvement using past trouble list, development review using safety aiming to secure safety through improvement of product quality. Consumer Safety and Protection Improvement of past trouble list product quality/safety Promotion of quality Continuing promotion of Dispatched Japanese engineers to Rubycon Indonesia and invited local improvement in Rubycon improvement in product engineers to Japan so as to improve skills and product quality. Group quality in Rubycon Group Product Continuing compliance with Compliance with Consumer Accident/Failure Conducted Claim 0 Campaign (C0C). Consumer Products Safety Products Safety Act Plan Act Improvement of Conducted a questionnaire to major customers on quality, time of delivery, Continuance of customer Customer Customer satisfaction survey price and service. Attained 95% of customer satisfaction in quality, and the satisfaction survey Satisfaction Complete Satisfaction was 66%. Conducted cleaning within the premises once a month and roads around the company every other month, as a part of environmental clean-up Participation in Community / Promotion of social service in activity. each location Continued public exhibition of Tonouchi Memorial Museum. Continuing promotion of Social Service Promotion of local fire fighting social service activities in Program Community Development activity and Japanese Red Handled all of the activities as special paid holidays. each location Cross activity Accepted 27 persons (including students, business people and Acceptance of internship handicapped) for internship. 27 ≪MEMO≫ 28
