UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Punjgur team, the champion of PPL Balochistan Football Cup 2017, with Minister of State for Petroleum Jam Kamal Khan, MD & CEO Syed Wamiq Bokhari (4th and 8th left on the stage) and other guests during the final ceremony on April 2 at Ayub Stadium, Quetta Principle 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare and basic civic amenities for communities. 3 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Strategic System for Organizational and Human Development ACTIONS more than 1200 online courses for oil and gas industry professional. Through this collaboration,PPL staff has been provided access to IHRDC’s comprehensive e-learning modules for the second year in Organizational Surveys 2017. 4 The company regularly sends its Performance head office staff on field visits to PPL conducts and participates regularly in organizational seek their opinion and surveys, enabling the company management to review and suggestions for work-related adopt best practices from benchmark companies. This improvements. Posting of staff proactive approach helps in continuous improvement of between fields and head office, systems and procedures. on a rolling-basis, has been 4 The company participates in various countrywide Human streamlined. Also, regular lateral Resource (HR) benchmarking surveys to assess prevailing and staff rotation within head office emergent trends. The findings enable PPL to align its HR has assisted employees in system with leading companies and consolidate best practices diversifying their learning and helping the company to benefit Pakistan Petroleum Limited already followed by the company. from their experiences. 4 Based on the results of Employee Engagement Survey conducted in December 2015, an action plan was developed to 4 One PPL scholar is pursuing address the identified gaps. Several improvement measures master’s degree from Norwegian were taken, including arrangement of town halls at head office Institute of Science & and fields, one-on-one sessions with staff and management and Technology, Norway under incorporating suggestions for improvement to enhance staff PPL’s Foreign Scholarship confidence building. Programme. 4 Nearly 70 graduates, inducted as Associates, for a two-year on-job Capacity Building training programme in March 2016, have completed the first year with cross-functional rotation as well as exposure to Performance Staff capacity building remained in line with the skills-based working in fields. The second matrix developed last year according to the employee’s job cycle of Associate programme requirements as part of key performance objectives. To this announced in January 2017, will end, the company organized nearly 230 training sessions for commence shortly. Selection both technical and soft skills, to fill-in the skills gap and equip process for which is in progress. employees with current business trends. Besides, informal The programme is geared learning through dedicated mentoring programme and staff towards development of talent rotation is also streamlined. pipeline, maintaining a 4 The company-wide skill and training matrix developed across the continuous supply of talent and disciplines during 2015 was further strengthen and effectively skill set aligned with operational implemented through organized need-based capacity building requirements for supporting the sessions, including technical training facilitated by foreign trainers. company’s accelerated 4 In order to cater to a number of in-house training programmes exploration programme. an additional purpose-built in-house training facility, PPL 4 About 40 Special Trainees were Training Centre II, was set-up at West Wharf, Karachi. The first inducted for a two-year on-job training centre was established in November 2015 in the same training programme in October vicinity. These centre have enabled the company to meet the 2016 as part of capacity building individual training needs through in-house customized training of young professional engineers programmes for all staff. and diploma holders belonging to 4 To augment company’s capacity building efforts, especially for company’s producing fields. The 4 technical skills, e-LEARN, PPL’s e-learning portal, was launched trainees are going through crossin December 2015 in collaboration with International Human functional rotation and field Resources Development Corporation (IHRDC). IHRDC offers exposure during the first year. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 PPL has a dedicated Technical Management Centre that subscribes to leading industry journals to keep staff updated with the latest trends and use of technology in the Exploration and Production sector. 4 Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines 2 Industrial Relations and Employees ACTIONS and periodicals are provided to keep staff updated on latest trends and information. 4 The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 61 st year of publication regularly reports on company activities and Fair Investigation industry related news. The Urdu version of Progress was Procedures initiated in January 2011 to increase reach and update staff and stakeholders who were otherwise not able to get first-hand information due to language barrier. Performance PPL protects employee rights, 4 Staff is kept updated on company activities through posting ensuring equitable treatment photographs of various corporate events on intranet portal. and opportunity for all to voice Besides, press clippings on oil and gas and energy sectors their views. from leading newspapers is posted daily on the portal. 4 The company has an effective policy for redressal of staff grievances, if any. 4Based on laws relevant to its Pakistan Petroleum Limited various locations, PPL follows the Standing (Orders) Ordinance 1968 for official reprimand of staff. 4The company regularly organizes town hall meetings for staff to share new developments, concern and issues in an open communication with the senior management. Benefits Performance PPL provides its staff with competitive remuneration packages as well as strives to facilitate enabling working environment with ample capacity development and career progression opportunities. 4 In line with the Companies Profits (Worker’s Participation) Act 1968, PPL contributes five percent of its net profit to the Workers Participation Fund. 4 PPL follows the Employees Old Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, contributing five percent of minimum basic salary to EOB institutions with employees’ participation of 1 percent. 5 4 The company pays Statutory Bonus under Section 10-C of the West Pakistan Industrial and UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Commercial Employment (Standing Order) Ordinance 1968 as contests/ matches with other well as Annual Settlement Bonus to non-management staff. organizations. 4 Annual Leave Fare Assistance is given to non-management 4 The company maintains a fullystaff in addition to monthly remuneration. equipped health and fitness 4 PPL also extends loans to staff for house construction/ facility to keep its employees renovation and purchase of vehicle. mentally and physically fit. Head Office Sports Club remains 4 The company offers 13 annual scholarships to children of available for staff recreation permanent non-management staff, with four scholarships for during lunch break and after post-intermediate and professional and 9 for post-matriculation working hours. The club at Sui education. Gas Field (SGF) also has a 4 Free bachelor accommodation along with necessary utilities is jogging track, badminton, tennis given to field-stationed staff. and squash courts and a 4 Gratis Hajj and Umrah facilities are provided to workers. swimming pool for staff use. 4 PPL provides pick-and-drop transport facility to women staff. Besides, the company has proper indoor games/ recreation 4 The company provides a nutritious and balanced lunch facility facilities at all field locations. PPL for management staff and women employees at the head office also organizes indoor games and fields. competition among head office and field employees. 4 PPL organizes musical and other Pakistan Petroleum Limited cultural programmes for Employee Recognition employees. 4 Company management and staff Performance PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to celebrate religious and cultural recognize and reward high standards of performance and festivals as well as national days. enhance staff motivation. 4 Performance Awards are given on an annual basis to employees together with departments, which were included as Preventing Forcible a new category from 2015, in recognition of their outstanding achievements. The company recognizes and rewards individual Displacement and department’s efforts for extraordinary performance, innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity gains and of Individuals complexity reduction, waste elimination and implementation of best QHSE practices. Besides employee’s notable social Performance contributions are also rewarded. The scheme also sets out to Due to its strict adherence to establish role models within the organization that other prescribed laws, PPL has never employees can emulate. had a case of forcible 4 PPL considers human capital its premium asset and displacement of employees. acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 years, through annual long service awards. Employment Policy for 4 The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in appreciation Handicapped and of their services. Disabled People 4 PPL follows the Disabled Persons (Employment and Healthy Entertainment Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 for Employees and ensures employment of handicapped personnel. Performance 4 In line with the Workmen Compensation Act in matters PPL attaches great importance to providing sports facilities related to disability, alternate job and entertainment for staff. assignments are given to 4 PPL encourages sports among head office and field employees disabled staff. and regularly organizes events such as Annual Inter-location 6 Cricket Tournaments and in-door games to engage staff in healthy recreation. Besides, the company has teams for various sports such as cricket and table tennis that participate in UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 3 Employee Safety and Security 4 Safety and fire drills are regularly conducted as per Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) requirements at head office and all ACTIONS field locations. 4 HSE awareness and training Safe Working Conditions sessions are regularly held. To further focus on increased understanding and improvement in the use of safety procedures, a Performance Employee safety and security is one of PPL’s top priorities. specialized mandatory training The company’s senior management is committed to campaign for all staff is in place to recognising QHSE as a core value for sustainable business build capacity in fulfilling basic growth and profitability. The company has dedicated QHSE protocols, including Security and QHSE departments to ensure hazard-free firefighting, incident investigation working conditions. The following initiatives are taken to and reporting, defensive driving, help protect company employees from risky situations and firefighting and first aid, over the conditions: period of four years. 4 To ensure safe plant operations and proactively avoid 4 ‘Hazard Identification, Risk incidental environmental releases, Process Safety Assessment and Management’ Management (PSM) based on OSHA (Occupational Safety Pakistan Petroleum Limited processes are shared with staff for and Health Administration Series) 3132 principles has been compliance. Field-based QHSE initiated. To this end, benchmarking of company’s QHSE representatives provide training for system was undertaken for compliance against international conducting risk assessment of best practices. PSM evaluation and Safety Perception Survey routine and project activities. (SPS) was conducted through DuPont Sustainable Solutions. Moreover, automation of incident Based on the results, a strategy was defined for phased investigation and risk assessment implementation of PSM principles at head office as well as processes have been initiated to fields through a well-established governance structure. ensure integrated risk reduction 4 To ensure that project activities carried out through contractors and improved performance. meet or exceed PPL’s QHSE Management System’s 4 Head Count System in the form of requirements, a comprehensive Contractors’ Safety Review is T-Card is implemented at all PPL being conducted, involving brainstorming sessions with fields, drilling sites, regional office in internal and external stakeholders to ascertain clarity on Islamabad and West Wharf as a expectations and roles. Besides various pre-emptive measures quick and accurate estimation of have been undertaken to ensure contractor safety, including personnel’s location at various sites. pre-mobilisation workshops, pre-spud meetings, audits and placement of additional QHSE human resource on seismic and 4 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) drilling sites. has been on a decline over the years due to PPL’s commitment to 4 In order to improve quality of risk assessments and proactive PSM and implementation of QHSE precautionary response in mitigating risks, automation of ‘Risk procedures. LTIF of the company Management’ and ‘Incident Management’ processes is near remained 0.3 during the reporting completion with the support of globally renowned QHSE IT period. Software solution provider. 4 For monitoring progress on health and safety measures, especially at fields and facilities, senior management regularly Employee Travel undertakes Safety Observation & Feedback Tour Audit of assets / locations beyond the set target. Safety 4 Various regular measures, including provision of personal protective equipment (PPE) and clothing according to the Performance nature of their job, are undertaken to ensure staff safety at work. PPL regularly arranges training programmes on defensive and 4 Safety alerts and travel advisories are regularly sent to evasive driving and road sense employees. 7 and safety for company staff. 4 Security passes are compulsory for PPL employees at the 4 Any unsafe driving practices, travel head office and field locations. route issues, vehicle or employee UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress complaints regarding transport are reported to the Administration Department for necessary countermeasures. Basic Health Facilities 4 All company vehicles are regularly inspected for fitness/ Performance tuning/ service at designated workshops/ garages. PPL extends a comprehensive 4 Wearing seat belts is mandatory for company transport drivers health plan and medical policy to and employees using company vehicles. A policy is in place to employees and their families. bind staff to wear seat belts. The company has qualified doctors for providing medical 4 All PPL employees are insured while travelling locally, consultation and treatment in the domestically or internationally. head office and field locations. 4 Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving company 4 The company provides medical vehicles. assistance to all employees, 4 First aid boxes and fire extinguishers are placed in all including their immediate family, company vehicles. and pensioners as per medical 4Road Transport Safety guidelines are being prepared to further policy. emphasize company’s focus on safe road travel. 4 PPL maintains a city clinic in Karachi, providing services throughout the day and on weekends, to ensure easy 4 access for employees and their families. Besides, PPL has a fullPakistan Petroleum Limited Health fledged hospital located within the premises of the SGF. At other ACTIONS company fields and locations, Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani, Adam and Gambat South, proper Healthy Environment for Employees arrangements for emergency Performance medical care are in place. PPL supports a safe and healthy workplace by enhancing 4 PPL follows the Factories Act – staff health and well-being. 1934, Mines Act – 1923 and Oil 4 Periodic check-ups at all field locations are carried out for fire and Gas (Safety in Drilling and extinguishers, fire alarms and sprinklers. Production) Regulations –1974, 4 Implementation of revised Occupational Health Manual (OHM) which include employee personal is in progress with phased approach at PPL-operated fields. hygiene, environment, Gap analysis against the OHM has already been initiated at emergency medical assistance Kandhkot Gas Field. The process will be extended to Adhi and and periodic medical check-ups. Gambat South in the near future. 4 Health awareness sessions are regularly conducted by company doctors and guest consultants for informing and updating staff on preventive measures and treatment of common diseases and outbreaks. 4 Ex-gratia payments are made to staff in case of prolonged sickness. 4 Clean drinking water is provided to staff at all locations. 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress • 6 students from Balochistan 5 Corporate Social Responsibility and Khyber Pukhtunkhwa have been awarded scholarships, worth Rs. 12 million, to study at Institute of Business Administration, Karachi under PPL stands committed to community development National Talent Hunt through provision of education, healthcare, infrastructure development, livelihood generation and Programme. post-disaster rehabilitation support and has allocated • The company has provided 100 scholarships for students of Balochistan Public School (now minimum 1.5 percent of its pre-tax profit for CSR activities. FC College Sui). With an The company spent over Rs. 900 million for CSR annual cost of Rs. 2.3 million, the scholarship will enable 10 deserving girls and boys each initiatives during March 2016 to February 2017, which is over and above its minimum commitment. from grade 1 up to 10 to study free of cost. • 30 scholarships were provided to Family Education Services ACTIONS Pakistan for the hearing challenged students from Pakistan Petroleum Limited Education Matiari and Sanghar districts in Sindh at a cost of Rs. 2.5 million. The scholarship will enable these students to study Performance PPL believes that the only sustainable way of improving free of cost for a year. livelihoods and well-being of underserved communities in the 4 The company regularly covers country is by providing them access to quality education. operational expenses of its two 4 The company has been providing quality education to children of adopted schools in District staff and locals at Sui Model School since 1957. SMS was Kambar Shahdadkot. upgraded to a girls’ college in 2009. Currently, the school caters 4 PPL constructed and to over 3000 boys and girls students, including 71 at the college. operationalized three primary 4 The company established Computer Training Centre and schools in Kandhkot in Library at Sui in 2010 for general public. Kalsoft, an Information partnership with The Citizen’s Technology company, was engaged to operate the centre. So Foundation in 2011 with an input far, nearly 900 locals have been trained through basic and of Rs. 83 million for which an advanced certificate courses. Besides, over 700 residents are endowment fund was created. To registered library users. date, over 600 students, both 4 The company provides free-of-cost transport facility to students girls and boys, are enrolled at of Taaleem Foundation Grammar School (TFGS) and Federal these schools. One of the schools Government Public School (FGPS), Sui. Besides, PPL has has been upgraded to a extended infrastructure and in-kind support to both schools secondary section. since inception. 4 PPL donated Rs. 3.24 million 4 PPL regularly provides the following scholarships for local towards construction of the students residing around its operational fields to enable them to Centre of Excellence for Deaf acquire quality education at renowned institutions:• (CED) being established by • Higher Professional Education Scholarship (HPES) scheme Pakistan Association of the Deaf. was initiated in 2005 to support both boys and girls in District CED aims to provide free-of-cost Dera Bugti to pursue education in renowned institutions quality education to the hearing across the country. The scheme was extended to include impaired. local students around other operated producing assets during 4 A donation of Rs. 3.6 million was 2009. To date, HPES has benefited nearly 300 students. given to Quaid-e-Azam Rangers • Four-year scholarship programme offers 40 annual Special Children School, Karachi for monthly fee of 10 deserving 9 scholarships for students of grade IX to XII from Balochistan to study at reputed educational institutions across the country. students over a period of 10 Starting 2011-2012, over 200 students have so far benefitted years until they complete their from the scheme. matriculation. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 In line with the company’s effort to strengthen academiacourses leading to a bachelors, industry linkage and promote research and development in masters and doctorate in a host of disciplines relevant to the industry, PPL has established chairs disciplines. VU will be managed at prominent universities. The first Chair in Geophysics was by Taaleem Foundation, a local established and operationalized at Bahria University, Karachi civil society organization working Campus. More recently, PPL Chair in Petroleum Engineering in the education sector. PPL will was operationalized at NED University of Engineering and also fund operational costs to run Technology, Karachi. PPL has allocated nearly Rs. 50 million the campus. for each chair. To further its efforts in promoting 4 PPL has established and inaugurated Virtual University (VU), Sui education, especially in remote campus with an input of about Rs. 20 million. The VU campus is areas, PPL has made contribution/ equipped with an advanced computer lab comprising 32 systems donations and provided support to and an 8-MB fiber optic value-added network to provide online the following institutions, including: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2016March 2017 (Rs. in millions) Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Karachi for 0.04 Annual Function Professional Education Foundation for fundraising carnival 0.300 Pakistan Petroleum Limited NED University for a conference on Unconventional Resources 0.600 Mehran University of Engineering & Technology for 4 International th 0.420 Conference on HSE and Sustainable Development Academic Blocks Government Boys High School Raiyan Gorcian in Rawalpindi 2.370 Government Girls Primary School Nata Gujjar Mall in Rawalpindi 2.400 Boundary wall and sanitary facility constructed for Government Girls 2.000 Primary School Chechi Noor in Rawalpindi 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress cost treatment for leprosy, Healthcare Initiatives blindness and tuberculosis to local communities. 4 PPL provided Rs. 9.3 million to Performance The company has provided extensive medical facilities in Koohi Goth Hospital for purchase some of the remotest regions of Pakistan through building of latest equipment for its new and assisting hospitals, rural mother and child healthcare operation theatre. The hospital centres, mobile dispensaries and medical camps. provides free-of-cost treatment for 4 PPL runs Sui Field Hospital (SFH) since 1964. In addition to obstetrics and gynaecology PPL staff and those of partners, SFH provides free-of-cost disorders, especially fistula. medical facilities to a large number of local patients. SFH is 4 Medical Dispensary, Mastala, equipped with latest medical facilities, including a 24-hour near company’s Adhi Field, emergency ward to cater to trauma and accident patients. constructed and furnished by PPL 4 Fully-equipped mobile medical dispensaries (MMD) regularly in 2007, provides free-of-cost visit more than 70 villages/ locations around SGF, Kandhkot and treatment to locals. A lady doctor Mazarani fields on a weekly/ bimonthly basis to provide free-ofhas been deputed by PPL to cost consultation and treatment to resident communities. cater to the healthcare needs of Approximately 100,000 patients are reached annually through local women. PPL annually these MMDs. PPL also developed software for e-monitoring of provides medicines worth Rs. 0.2 MMDs and trained relevant staff in its use. million for the dispensary. 4 The 50-bed PPL Public Welfare Hospital (PPL PWH) was 4 PPL donated Rs. 12.4 million to Pakistan Petroleum Limited constructed, furnished and equipped by PPL at a cost of over Indus Hospital for Rs. 350 million on land provided by Government of Balochistan operationalization of a state-ofin Sui Town. The hospital became autonomous with an the-art Neonatal Intensive Care independent board. Hiring of chief and deputy chief executives, Unit at its Sheikh Saeed Memorial doctors and nurses nearly completed. The out-patient Campus. department commenced operations in December 2013 and 4 The company extended Rs. 10 caters to 200 patients on a daily basis. PPLPWH has necessary million to Mayo Hospital, Lahore facilities, including gynaecology and obstetrics, emergency, for purchasing six anaesthesia operation theatres, laboratory and pharmacy. machines for its emergency 4 PPL organizes bi-annual free-of-cost surgical eye camps around surgical ward. its operational fields in partnership with Al-Shifa Trust Eye 4 PPL constructed Thalassaemia Hospital. Each camp benefits about 1400 patients for testing Diagnostic, Prevention and and provision of glasses with nearly 150 patients undergoing Research Centre in Badin. onsite cataract surgery. To support viable community 4 PPL has adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple healthcare projects and services, Merger Centres at Turbat in Balochistan and Kandhkot in Sindh PPL has provided donations/ since 2005. The company provides annual operational sponsorships to various institutions/ expenses at a cost of Rs. 3 million. The centres extend free-ofinitiatives, including the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2016March 2017 (Rs. in millions) Pakistan Foundation for Fighting Blindness for Annual Fundraiser 0.100 11 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Awaran, Kharan, Washuk, Lakki Enhancing Livelihood Opportunities Marwat, Kalat, Dera Ismail Khan and Kashmore. Performance 4 PPL provides free-of-cost gas PPL realizes that creating livelihood generation options and water supplies to over 65000 assist marginalized communities to raise the quality of their residents of Sui town and lives. To this end, the company has substantially invested in villages around SGF. An average engaging people, both men and women, in earning of 4 to 5 MMscfd free gas and livelihoods through sustained income sources. more than two million gallons of drinking water is pumped daily to 4 The company set-up a Women Welfare Centre in Sui within Sui town at an annual cost of the premises of FGPS in 2006 to provide skill learning about Rs. 315 million and Rs. opportunities for local women. The centre trained over 400 150 million, respectively. local women until 2015 when it was shifted to a companyfunded purpose-built facility. Developed at a cost of nearly Rs. 4 A new water supply system for 20 million within the TFGS premises, the new set-up as Sui town is completed in Vocational Training Institute (VIT) provides training to both partnership with GoB to address women and men with access to market. VIT is being run by line losses and pilferages on the Taaleem Foundation. existing PPL water supply line. PPL has contributed Rs. 135 4 PPL is extending infrastructure and maintenance support for million to construct trunk lines, Technical Training Centre, Sui since the 1990s. Starting 2009, overhead and storage tanks and Pakistan Petroleum Limited the company also provides annual scholarships to top 15 pump houses and provided graduating students to pursue diploma level studies in pumping machinery with recognized polytechnics – The Hunnar Foundation – independent electrification recognized by City and Guilds United Kingdom. To date, 84 system. locals have benefitted from the scheme. 4 To provide free-of-cost potable 4 Women Vocational Training Centre (WVTC), Mastala near Adhi water to over 3000 residents of Field was established in 2011 to facilitate local women in Ghaibi Dero town and its increasing their income potential. PPL regularly provides surrounding villages near resource material and operational expenses for the centre Mazarani Gas Field, PPL runs a which is run by Behbud Association of Pakistan, a nonwater supply scheme using a governmental organization. WVTC trains women in bowzer facility since 2010 at an embroidery, tailoring and basic literacy skills. To date, over 500 annual cost of about Rs. 4 local women have been trained. These include over 350 local million. women who are regularly engaged to carryout traditional embroidery on dresses sold at Behbud-run outlets. 4 Reconstruction and widening for dual traffic flow of 2.1 km Shahdadpur bypass road is in Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2016-March 2017 (Rs. in millions) progress near PPL Hala and Gambat South blocks in Sindh at Distinguished Secretaries Society of Pakistan for 0.200 a cost of Rs. 53 million. 45th Annual Gala 2016 4 Bidding process for construction Petroleum Institute of Pakistan for ADIPEC 2016 1.230 of 15 km new road in the rural Pakistan Association of Petroleum Geoscientists for 0.800 areas of District Kashmore near Annual Technical Conference 2016 & PPL stall Kandhkot Gas Field has been initiated. Infrastructure Development Performance Provision of meaningful, durable infrastructure is a key to development and sustained economic growth, especially in the far-flung areas of Pakistan. The company has focused on developing infrastructure and civic amenities not only for its own use but also for local communities. 12 4 PPL started construction of 28 water supply schemes in various districts of Balochistan and Sindh, including Lasbela, UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Social Welfare Performance The company has a diverse, need-based social welfare policy. With a minimum pre-tax profit of 1.5 percent, PPL’s CSR initiatives go well beyond obligatory requirements to support the disadvantage communities. To ensure optimum onground implementation and impact, PPL works through government, local civil society organizations and local communities. 4 The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy Award instituted by the Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy for 12 consecutive years from 2004 to 2015 as one of the largest corporate giver in terms of volume of donations. 4 The company organized two mega football tournaments in Balochistan titled ‘PPL Balochistan Football Cup 2016’ and ‘PPL Balochistan Football Cup 2017’, the latter being the largest-ever sponsored football tournament in the country. The purpose was to engage local youth of Balochistan in healthy recreation and provide them an opportunity to demonstrate their talent. 4 The company also conducted impact analysis of its CSR projects in three producing fields ─ Adhi, Kandhkot and Sui, 4 To support organizations providing welfare services, enabling neglected societal Pakistan Petroleum Limited segments to prosper and promoting environmental and cultural values, PPL has given generous donations to the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2016-March 2017 (Rs. in millions) TCF for Golf Tournament 2016 0.200 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan for Women’s Day celebration 0.150 PSTD for Women in Business and Leadership Conference 2016 0.100 PSTD for 4th National HSE and Sustainable Development Summit 0.350 MOSEQAAR through The Medica Foundation for fundraising musical night 0.030 13 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 14 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities. ETHICS 4 In compliance with Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority’s directives to implement ‘Protection Against ACTIONS Harassment of Women at Workplace (PAHWW) Act 2010’, the company took the following Adherence to Highest Corporate Values measures: • Circulated brochures on salient Performance features of the Act, including PPL’s vision, mission and values are testament to the instructions on compliance, to importance the company places on corporate ethics. As all employees. such, the company expects its employees to adhere to the • Company’s harassment policy following core values: was prominently placed on the 4 Promote leadership, empowerment and accountability PPL website and portal. 4 Pursue highest standards of integrity • A three-member committee, 4 Value people as the most important resource including a women staff, was constituted to address staff 4 Promote innovation and value creation grievances. 4 Ensure excellence in all spheres of performance Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 Awareness raising sessions for 4 Advocate teamwork aligned with business objectives staff were organized on PAHWW 4 Conserve environment by minimizing carbon footprint Act 2010 and PPL’s harassment policy. Since January 2016, a fresh series of awareness sessions were held which Code of Conduct continued in 2017 with a mandatory requirement for each Performance staff to participate. Ethical commitments and values remain the centre piece of 4 Any suspected violations or PPL’s Code of Conduct, compliance to which is mandatory actions that create hostile or for all employees. offensive work environment such as sexual harassment or 4 PPL believes in carrying out its business with integrity and honesty, adhering to the principles of good corporate insensitive comments governance and best practices. The company’s Code of concerning gender, religion, Conduct, approved by the Board of Directors, provide race, disability or age are guideline to employees for planning, managing and executing promptly reported to work. The Code is available to all employees through the management that ensures company’s portal and website. Besides, periodic reinforcement appropriate actions in line with is done through notice boards, brochures and on-screen popStandard Operating ups on employees’ desktops/ laptops. Procedures. 4 All incoming employees and trainees sign and submit an 4 Violations of the Code of undertaking to ensure clear understanding and acceptance Conduct are viewed seriously and uphold the company’s Code of Conduct. More recently, and have often resulted in employees’ acceptance and adherence to the Code of disciplinary actions and, in some Conduct is further ensured through online undertaking at the cases, led to termination of time of filling-in the performance appraisals as a mandatory service. step towards form submission. 4 PPL requires its employees to maintain an environment free 15 Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company’s operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between management and workers. 16 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Industrial Relations ACTIONS 4 The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management. 4 All terms and conditions of employment of workers are Freedom of Association reviewed biennially and discussed in a friendly Performance environment with CBA. After bilateral negotiations, a The company believes in the freedom of opinion and handsome increase in wages expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a and other allowances are paid congenial and equitable working environment as per law. through settlement. 4 The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act, wherein 4 Policies on salaries and employees are free to join any trade union of their choice. allowances as well as other 4 PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers benefits such as medical, leave Union, of which most workers are members. and travel are duly discussed and finalized with the CBA every two years. 4 The company has not witnessed Pakistan Petroleum Limited Collective Bargaining any strike, legal or illegal, or Performance lockout during the last five years. The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent 4 No cases of unfair labour (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment practices have been filed by the for workers at all field locations. union. 4 The CBA together with stewards and union members, 4 The company provides special coordinates with management to improve working conditions leave to CBA union/employees and redress job-related issues. for appearance in court cases, if it is party to disputes. 4 Negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled amicably with CBA representatives. 4 Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the union’s suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation. 17 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 18 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Employees 4 Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. 4 Exit notice period for workers is 30 days and for management, ACTIONS professional and technical staff is 90 days. Procedure for Preventing 4 Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback and institute corrective Under-age Employment measures, if necessary. Performance The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers. Record of Checking 4 All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years Minimum Wage Rate and above) category, in accordance with the law. 4 To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are Against Regulated confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, Amount educational certificates or Form ‘B’ issued by the National Database and Registration Authority. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Performance The company keeps its wage policy in line with governmental directives to ensure fair corporate governance. Procedure for Preventing Forced Labour 4 All workers in the company (both permanent and contract) are Performance employed above the minimum The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced wage rate as specified by the labour. government and paid competitively in accordance with 4 Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of market norms. service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work. 4 Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws. 19 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth without any discrimination on the basis of race, gender, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 20 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Recruitment 2 ACTIONS Employees Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working conditions for Performance diversified workforce PPL’s employment policy provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee Performance discrimination. As a leading employer and 4 PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal responsible corporate citizen, opportunity to women employees. PPL provides an enabling 4 Women employees are placed at various levels in the environment for professional organization, ranging from non-management to senior growth, with equity, security and management positions. human dignity, irrespective of 4 The company employs men and women employees under gender or religion. Pakistan Petroleum Limited standard screening processes based on merit and job 4 PPL has a diversified workforce suitability. and does not discriminate on the 4 There are equitable career paths and opportunities for women basis of race, colour, gender, employees. religion, disability or family status in recruitment, training or 4 To further emphasize equitable participation of working women advancement of its employees. and address their issues at workplace, the company celebrates International Women’s Day and Working Women’s 4 Minorities are given special Day. Dedicated sessions are organized for women employees holidays in accordance with their to increase awareness about their role and responsibilities and religious festivals to ensure an address their issues. open and moderate culture and environment across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance 4 Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. 21 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). 22 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 4 Independent Environmental Monitoring is carried out for all Environmental Management seismic and drilling operations, especially in environmentally sensitive areas, through reputed ACTIONS specialized consultants to ensure compliance with environment management plan that includes Quality, Health, Safety and recommended methodologies, legal requirements and company’s HSE standards to address Environment environmental issues while Performance meeting stakeholders’ 4 The company’s QHSE policy is in place to ensure quality in all expectations. Moreover, QHSE company operations with emphasis on ‘embedding green monitoring through in-house practices, proactive risk management, complying with relevant experts as well as independent laws and maintaining communication with stakeholders to consultants has been strengthened promote sustainability. The policy is displayed at prominent to confirm compliance at site in line locations at head, regional and field offices and can be with the agreed terms of reference accessed through the company’s website: (see figure 1). The results are duly http://www.ppl.com.pk/content/policies shared with project owner departments for timely intervention/ 4 PPL has a well-defined HSE Management System developed Pakistan Petroleum Limited input on HSE concerns. in line with internationally recognized ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001. The system provides continuous assessment 4 All PPL-operated fields are and monitoring against standard parameters to ensure the registered with Federal EPA under highest level of safety and minimal damage to surrounding Self-Monitoring and Reporting natural environment. Programme for monthly testing through external laboratory and 4 Annual QHSE targets are set and implemented within all reporting against emission business segments/ assets. Monitoring of environmental key parameters prescribed by NEQS. performance parameters (KPIs) is embedded in the Also, monitoring of vehicular standardized, regular QHSE reporting framework. Corporate emissions against parameters environmental guidelines / procedures, management tools and such as smoke, CO and Noise reporting have enabled the company to improve environmental (dBA) was conducted. performance. Besides, QHSE Monthly Performance Report Subsequently, emissions, structure has been significantly upgraded to add on KPIs, exceeding NEQS / PEQS improvise data gathering structure and facilitate analysis and parameters, have been identified inferring useful results for continual improvement. for root cause analysis and 4 PPL is an active member of Pakistan Petroleum Exploration rectification. and Production Companies Association and participates in its HSE committee meetings. These meetings provide a forum to discuss latest industry practices, use of technology and Precautionary benchmarking in HSE management system. Measures Performance Environmental Studies 4 Noise monitoring and abatement is ensured for safe working Performance environment in high noise areas. 4 Initial Environment Examination (IEE) and Environment Impact For this, enclosures, sound Assessment (EIA) studies are consistently undertaken for all barriers and PPE are provided, as development initiatives, including drilling, seismic operations appropriate. and projects, in compliance with Pakistan Environmental 4 To control accidental leakage, Protection Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA aim to identify potential adequate control arrangements environmental impacts at development sites and advise such as barriers and spill control mitigation measures accordingly. The studies are submitted to kits are available at all operational relevant provincial Environmental Protection Agencies (EPA) areas. Besides, designated trained 23 for approval. Once approved, IEE/ EIA provide a benchmark contingency teams are available to for regular internal and external monitoring against suggested handle incidental spills. mitigation measures. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS HSE Monitoring Services at Sites (since December 2015 to-date) UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Hala Block Sui wells (94,95) Kandhkot Gas Field Head Office Tabaan X-1 Sirani Block Miriwah East X-1 Malir Block Kotri Block Hadi X-1 Hub Block Hisal Block Gambat South Block Bashar X-1 Pakistan Petroleum Limited Adhi wells (9,15,17,26,27,28) Shah Bandar Block Hatim X-1 Dhok Sultan Block 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 No. of Days Utilized at Sites Figure 1: HSE Monitoring at head office, fields and drilling sites 24 Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL ensures proactive acceptance of its responsibility and accountability for environmental imperatives. The company recognizes that operational excellence cannot be achieved without embedding HSE considerations in business decision making processes. PPL remains committed to raising environmental awareness among staff, suppliers and contractors for encouraging ecofriendly practices. 25 Management Systems society organizations, including UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Hissar Foundation. 1 Awareness Raising 4 The company is currently sponsoring an afforestation drive over 400-acre forest area in District Kashmore with 300000 ACTION sapling to be planted during two years, starting 2014 in partnership with Forest Department. More recently, seed Enhancing Environmental Awareness broadcast over 250 acres of Performance riverine forest was completed as 4 Awareness raising sessions and training, focusing on part of fresh plantation project. . environment and sustainability, are regularly held to apprise staff on emerging issues. QHSE safety talk, alerts and bulletin boards are effectively utilized to promote conservation. Besides, QHSE weeks and international days such as World Environment Day are regularly celebrated through special sessions and activities to foster conservation efforts, green practices and safe working culture. 4 Comprehensive QHSE guidelines for projects have been 2 Environmental Responsibility ACTIONS developed in line with best international environmental Pakistan Petroleum Limited standards and effective risk management planning using the latest environment-friendly technologies. 4 ‘Sustainable Energy Management’ was introduced in 2011 to Eco-friendly practices promote energy conservation at all fields. Initially, baseline data for consumption pattern at each field was collected. Since Performance then, significant improvement has been achieved against each PPL is adopting eco-friendly year’s benchmark in conserving electricity, gas, fuel and water practices to minimize damage to as well as waste generation, especially at field locations. An natural resources through its overview of energy consumption at various PPL fields is operations in line with its provided in figure 2. commitment towards sustainability. The following green Energy Consumption practices are adopted by PPL: 2.25 4 Light-Emitting Diode (LED) technology is used in all new Energy Consumption (GJ/tons of HC) 1.60 1.62 1.62 projects and expansion activities 1.50 as well as several existing 1.00 projects, replacing conventional lights. LEDs has many 0.75 advantages over traditional incandescent light sources, including lower energy 0.00 Sui Field Adhi Field Kandhkot Field Gambat South consumption, longer lifetime, Producing Assets improved physical robustness, EC IOGP Benchmark smaller size and faster switching. Figure 2: Energy consumption at PPL fields 4 Tree cutting is avoided during seismic activities and site 4 PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘No Smoking Zone’ restoration is simultaneously and separate smoking areas are designated for smokers. The carried out for even minor non-smoking policy is displayed in all departments and removal of flora/ vegetation locations. through green teams. 4 PPL is a corporate member of the Pakistan Chapter of World 4 Tree plantation campaigns are Business Council for Sustainable Development as well as undertaken at company-operated leading environmental organizations, including WWF, and fields and exploration assets to participates in relevant events and campaigns. The company off-set emissions and improve 26 observes as well as sponsors EH since its inception in ambience. Pakistan in 2010. PPL is an associate of Karachi Water Partnership and supports similar initiatives led by key civil 4 Water-based mud, which is known for compatibility with UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress natural soil, is preferred over oil-based mud that requires special treatment for disposal for all drilling operations. 4 Biodegradable explosives are used during seismic surveys. 4 Electronic communication together with duplex printing is promoted to reduce paper usage. Evaluation of HSE Performance Performance 4 Integrated QHSE audits aligned with ISO 14001 EMS, ISO 9001 Quality Management System (QMS) and OHSAS 18001 have been successfully launched in 2015 to optimize cost and operational synergies. In order to enhance staff competency, trainings and refresher courses on advanced (2015) version of ISO standards have been conducted during 2016. 4 Internal and external audits/ monitoring of departments/ fields are carried out to assess compliance of standardized procedures at site and implementation of QHSE Management System and performance. Inspections, spot checks and suggestion forms are used during the process with staff Pakistan Petroleum Limited participation. 4The pool of ISO certified departments, fields and facilities has expanded as per annual plan while sustaining those which are already certified. As a result, 12 fields and facilities, including Adhi, Kandhkot and Hala/ Gambat South /Mazarani assets, Sui Production, Sui Field Gas Compressor Station, Sui Field Hospital, Sui Field Utility and Drilling and Well Engineering, QHSE, Projects, Exploration and Construction departments have been certified for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 as well as ISO 9001. While Sui Purification Plant is ISO 9001 & OHSAS 18001 certified. Moreover, Sui Asset (Head Office), Medical Services and Production Technology are certified for ISO 9001. 4 Performance monitoring for environmental sustainability data, including emission of Green House Gases, energy consumption and generation of hazardous waste in line with United Nation’s Global Reporting Initiative criteria conducted at field locations. Reduction targets set for year 2015 based on inventories reported in year 2014. 4 QHSE Audit Module in SAP made functional with work in progress to automate processes, including incident investigation, monthly performance monitoring and sustainability reporting. 27 Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL believes in the use of emerging environmentfriendly technologies, especially for new projects, to reduce its carbon footprint. 28 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environment-friendly Technologies Further, advanced analytical software tools have been applied on stack emissions to conduct dispersion modelling of significant pollutants such as H2S from hot ACTION flares and cold stacks to safeguard surrounding community, Waste management and flora and fauna from its detrimental effects. emission control 4Metal analysis of stack emissions is introduced at SGF as a proactive voluntary measure for Performance The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental assessing potential environmental impact of its operations through the use of innovative impact. Set parameters for technology. Besides, PPL is focussing on adopting/ various metals, including lead, embedding environment-friendly technology in all new mercury, cadmium, arsenic, project designs. copper, antimony and zinc, were 4 PPL has a well-defined waste disposal and management found to be below detectable procedure, which is effectively implemented across the limits. Similar analysis will be company. This includes minimization, segregation at source, extended to other companyrecycling and reuse, safe handling and disposal of hazardous operated fields. Pakistan Petroleum Limited waste as per standard environment-friendly procedures. 4Process water is contained in 4 Effective arrangements such as landfill and incinerators are ponds lined with pit line for employed for safe disposal of waste, besides acquiring evaporation. Alternatively, services of specialized contractors for disposal of hazardous wastewater evaporator and forced waste and oily sludge recovered from operations. Moreover, draft evaporation systems are composting of food waste is also carried out. also utilized for treating effluent 4 Corporate procedure on waste management has been water in order to eliminate soil reviewed to include technological advancements and end user and ground-water contamination. feedback for adopting more effective and environmentally safe 4Constructed Wetland, PPL’s processes. The procedure has been issued with emphasis on pioneering initiative, has been existing waste disposal measures. Moreover, to ensure recognized at the international effective implementation of waste management procedure at forum in UK. The technology contractors’ end, PPL staff visits contractors’ waste disposal saves significant amount of sites to verify the adequacy of disposal protocols as part of its carbon dioxide emission as commitment in ensuring environmental sustainability. compared to effluent deep 4Emissions from all equipment at company facilities are disposal well, hence qualifies for controlled through in-house maintenance programmes and end UN’s Clean Development of pipeline solutions. Going beyond minimum legal compliance, Mechanism to generate saleable PPL has initiated ambient air monitoring in and around its fields/ carbon credits. The technology is sites since 2015 to proactively control air pollution with focus on being replicated at Adhi Field. observing levels of CO, H2S, NOx, particulate matter, SOx, O3, CO2 which were found to be within the given limits of PEQS. 29 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 30 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Employees 2 ACTION External Interface Code of Conduct Credible Disclosure of Information to Performance Investors and The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. Stakeholders 4 All employees are required to sign the Code of Conduct at the time of joining. Performance 4 All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or 4 PPL ensures transparency in other payments intended to influence business decision or business transactions and rejects compromise fair judgment. any business practice, which may deem improper. 4 No employee can give money to obtain business for the company or receive money for giving company business to an 4 All financial reports are properly external agency. audited by external auditors. Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, 4 Quarterly briefing on financial contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have a statements is given to business relationship with the company. management. 4 Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. 4 Meeting of PPL’s Board of Directors is held on a quarterly basis. 4 All employees are required to declare their assets on a yearly basis. 4 Media/ press briefings and interviews are given on demand. 4 Consultative meetings with CSR partners are held for social development initiatives. Corporate Governance 4 The company ensures timely Performance payment of taxes. 4 Checks such as annual declaration 4 PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance of assets, notifying the company in with regulatory and legal requirements. case of receipt of gifts above a 4 The company uses internationally acceptable accounting certain value, hospitality and standards to maintain transparency. potential conflicts of interest are in4 All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly built into the system to preempt recorded in the books of the company. corruption. 4 The company complies with regulations of the Security and 4 Similar checks and balances are Exchange Commission of Pakistan. built into organizational processes, 4 Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s governing procurement, materials annual reports. and personnel in accordance with the Manual on Delegation of 4 No incident of corruption has been reported in the company. Authority and Public Procurement 4 All business units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. Regulatory Authority, a public sector 4 Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out for entity to monitor procurement in a all departments to ensure compliance with company procedures transparent manner. and ensure course correction, if required. 31 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Email: info@ppl.com.pk Website: www.ppl.com.pk
