Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Table of contents Sustainability Responsible Digital Environmental at Telstra business futures solutions Message from our Ethics and governance > Everyone connected > Climate change and energy > Chairman and CEO > Ethics, values and governance > Digital inclusion > Energy and emissions > Performance highlights > Protecting our customers’ Community investment > Climate change resilience > data and privacy > About Telstra > Managing our supply chain > Networks > Environment and Our changing world > Human rights > Building the networks of the future > resource efficiency > Our approach > Resource efficiency > Product responsibility > Tech for good > Our customers > Environmental risk and compliance > Mobile phones, base stations Social and environmental innovation > Materiality > and health (EME) > Stakeholder engagement > Keeping safe in a digital world > About this report > Culture and capabilities > Building culture and engagement > Developing our people > Appendices Creating a diverse and GRI Content Index inclusive workplace > Glossary Promoting health, safety Data tables and wellbeing > Employment and workplace relations > Assurance statement Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 01 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Message from our For the past decade approximately 15 per Telstra faces an unprecedented world of cent of our investment in our mobile network technology innovation and digital disruption. has gone to provide services to the most This year further highlighted the significant remote 2 per cent of the population. In FY17 challenges we face with rapidly changing Chairman and CEO we announced further plans that could result in up to $1 billion of investment and co-investment over the next five years, as customer expectations, intensified market pressures and increasing competition. We know we need to change in order to do we work to provide improved and expanded mobile coverage and high-speed mobile things quicker and in an easier way. We know internet to regional communities. we need new and different skills to support Telstra’s vision is to be a world class technology Telstra supports the United Nations new technologies and services, and we need company that empowers people to connect. Sustainable Development Goals a common, The digital world is transforming the way we to challenge every aspect of how we work global framework for considering and live and as more Australians do more online, to continue to deliver brilliant experiences We have this ambition because connection addressing the world’s most significant being connected is not just an added extra, for our customers. is at our core – it is who we are – and we know development challenges. We have identified but an increasingly integral part of daily life. that in this digital age, connectivity is vital Within this environment we are proud of initial priorities that reflect our business As services increasingly go digital, this divide to the success of communities, businesses the work we to do to ensure everyone can context, key risks and impacts and current will only continue to get deeper and those and the lives of people across Australia and maximise the benefits of being connected. social and environmental focus areas and who are not connected risk falling even the world. We remain committed to being a dynamic this report details our progress in responding further behind. This year we released the That is why over the past year we reviewed our to these over FY17. Telstra Australian Digital Inclusion Index, customer-centric company that invests approach to sustainability to make sure our a rich data source to provide critical insights deeply in leadership, agile ways of working We are a signatory to the United Nations Global and developing the skills of our people to keep strategy and activities continue to support our in shaping the future of our programs and Compact and are committed to supporting pace with the changing nature of our industry. vision and the transformation of our business. products – as well as that of our partners its principles – on human rights, labour rights, Our new sustainability strategy is a multienvironment and anti-corruption – wherever and policy makers. We are proud of the We hope you enjoy reading our Bigger Picture year vision for a more holistic approach to we operate. work we have done in ensuring Australians 2017 Sustainability Report and welcome your sustainability that informs and integrates can benefit from being connected with an comments, feedback and ideas. One of our priorities is working towards gender extensive range of products and services all of our business activities. Our efforts are equality. In 2017 we introduced a Global designed for low-income, vulnerable and focused on the issues that are most material Recruitment Equality Procedure which disadvantaged customers. Since 2002, these for our business, the areas in which we have requires recruitment and interview shortlists have provided more than $2 billion in value. the expertise to make a meaningful impact, for all roles to include at least 50 per cent and where we see opportunities to use female representation. This applies to all Environmental solutions innovative, tech-based solutions to help current open roles and all new jobs, except The digital transformation of economies address major societal challenges. It speaks in some specified roles where a 25 per cent globally will play a fundamental role in to the fundamental role we have to play in requirement applies due to a known significant helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions helping our customers and society adapt to gender imbalance in the job market. and limit global warming. Telstra too, must technological change and the opportunities it brings. play its part. This year we were recognised Digital futures on the CDP 2016 Climate A List which reflects We want everyone to thrive in a digital world. Telstra’s commitment to customers living in our strategic approach to evaluating risks rural and regional Australia is longstanding. and opportunities posed by climate change, Responsible business That is why we welcomed the Australian and our performance on our three year Today more is expected from businesses, Competition and Consumer Commission’s greenhouse gas emissions intensity target. Andrew R Penn particularly those as large and iconic as draft decision not to declare domestic mobile We achieved a 68 per cent reduction from CEO and Managing Director Telstra. What is important now is not just roaming. This was the right decision for the our FY14 baseline and in June, we announced John P Mullen how we perform financially, but how we people, businesses and communities of a new emissions intensity target for a 50 per Chairman do business and how we contribute to regional Australia because it promotes cent reduction by FY20, from a FY17 baseline. our communities and particularly those competition and encourages industry to most vulnerable. further invest in better coverage. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 02 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Performance highlights $3.9b Net profit after tax from 71% Sustainable engagement $28.2b continuing operations score Total income1 30.1% female representation across 1m vulnerable customers we Telstra Corporation Limited helped to stay connected Episode Net Promoter 99 per cent of Telstra Group More than 17 million 8,910 Score (NPS) up by 3 employees and contractors messages to customers Volunteering days undertaken points on last year completed mandatory annual on mobile use, EME and in the community compliance training tips to reduce exposure Strategic NPS stable on last year Telstra Foundation committed Telstra recognised Reduced our GHG emissions $6 million to community on the CDP 2016 intensity by 68 per cent programs and partnerships Climate A List since our FY14 baseline year We collected 4,353 tonnes Launched the Launched our first 1 On a reported and guidance of e-waste with a recycling Australian Digital Accessibility and basis. Excludes finance income. rate of 99.9 per cent Inclusion Index Inclusion Plan Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 03 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions About Telstra Telstra is Australia’s leading telecommunications and technology Over operating in company with a growing international presence. Through our extensive network, we offer a broad suite of connectivity, 32,000 20 employees countries media and content to customers in Australia, as well as connectivity and enterprise services globally. We have a diverse range of customers including consumers, small One of Australia’s largest business, large enterprises and government Over and shareholder bases, with organisations. We curate innovative technologies and capabilities from 350 70 1.4 million around the world to deliver exceptional Telstra Retail Stores Business Centres shareholders experiences for all our customers. Our core strength is in our leading network and connectivity, and we are utilising this to secure new opportunities in international markets and in emerging areas like eHealth, software and digital media. 5.4 million 3.5 million 17.5 million retail fixed voice services retail fixed data services domestic retail mobile services We strive to provide exceptional customer experiences, forming strategic partnerships around the world to create and deliver innovative technology, capability and talent. For more information about our business structure and strategy, please refer to Strategy 460 million 430 million and Performance in our 2017 Annual Report. data connections made calls, and over our network each day 4G network covering More than connecting to 99% 400,000km 2,000+ of Australia’s population of subsea cable network points of presence across the globe Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 04 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our changing world Technological disruption is fundamentally Our operations and our workforce are also changing the way the world works. Today’s fundamentally changing as a result of new businesses, governments and consumers are technologies and business processes. Rapid creating and responding to shifts that would changes in IT systems, data access, privacy have seemed unimaginable even a few years laws and regulations are all creating a ago. Telstra’s products and services play a more challenging market, while customer central role in the daily lives of millions of expectations continue to grow and diversify people, and technologies such as ultrafast in line with technological advances. 4GX™ mobile, fibre-optic networks, cloud While these multifaceted challenges computing, and the Internet of Things are undoubtedly provide a more complex transforming businesses big and small. operating environment, they also underscore As our workplaces change, so too do our our unique advantage as Australia’s leading homes. People today have access to more telecommunications provider. We are well content and information at the touch of a positioned to leverage our strong brand button than their grandparents did in their and reputation, a growing domestic and lifetimes. There is little doubt that technology international customer base, world-leading is revolutionising access to education, mobile networks, the largest submarine healthcare and financial services for millions cable network in the Asia Pacific, and of people – but the pace of innovation also cutting-edge technologies that will help risks leaving many behind. us realise our vision to become a world class technology company that empowers Telstra is operating in this changing market. people to connect. The nbn™ rollout is altering our place in Australia’s fixed service market, particularly For more information on our strategy, in the broadband and fixed telephone market please refer to Strategy and Performance where we are moving from a network operator in our 2017 Annual Report. to one of many retailers competing in a lower-margin environment. Competitive dynamics are also shifting, with Australia set to gain a fourth mobile network operator and other local and international competitors entering the market to provide services including data, IP and NAS. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 05 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Goal 5: Achieving gender equality Goal 9: Building resilient infrastructure, and empowering women and girls promote inclusive and sustainable Development Goals industrialisation and fostering innovation We are committed to achieving gender The United Nations Sustainable equality at Telstra and have implemented We believe that the more connected people Development Goals (SDGs) address a range of policies, programs and engagement are, the more opportunities they have. We the world’s most significant development initiatives to help us achieve this goal. This are connecting people in rural and regional challenges. To achieve these goals, includes our new recruitment shortlist gender Australia through significant investments government, business and communities equality procedure that mandates a minimum to increase our mobile coverage, and we are need to work together and challenge 50 per cent female representation on preparing our global networks for the future the way things are done. At Telstra we shortlists and interview lists for all roles. to meet the rising demand for data and are working to align our business and Telstra is also a signatory to the UN Women’s content. Our programs to help build people’s sustainability agenda towards achieving Empowerment Principles. digital skills and capabilities helped more these goals. As a universal agreement to than one million vulnerable customers stay work towards a better future, we believe connected this year. the SDGs align closely with our own purpose to deliver a brilliant connected future for everyone. Last year we highlighted four initial priority goals in which we believed we could have Goal 8: Promoting sustained, inclusive and Goal 13: Taking urgent action to combat the greatest impact. Our new sustainability sustainable economic growth, full and productive climate change and its impacts strategy was developed with reference to employment and decent work for all the SDGs and will provide guidance as we We believe business, and technology continue to demonstrate on-going tangible We are committed to creating a workplace in particular, has a critical role to play in action towards these goals. where all our people can thrive. Our assisting our customers, and society more approach focuses on living our values, generally, move towards a low carbon future For more detailed information on how we sustainable engagement and building and become more resilient to a changing are delivering against the SDGs in FY17, capability. We strive to build a diverse climate. We continue to reduce our emissions please refer to our reporting website. and inclusive workforce that reflects our intensity across our business and work with customers and the countries in which our customers to develop ICT solutions that we operate. We also help build STEAM help them reduce their own environmental (Science, Technology, Engineering, the impacts. Our new cloud calculator for Arts and Mathematics) capability in future business helps customers estimate generations of digital innovators and the carbon, costs and time we could problem solvers. help them save. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 06 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Thriving in a digital world Our approach and Ethic s an ment ciency dg n f ov iro e e er nv urc na so re E Re nce Thriving in a digital world the maturation of our sustainability approach, ns sp tio o Telstra’s contribution to the delivery of the UN In an increasingly inter-connected world, Environm ess usin Sustainable Development Goals, and reflects ent eb digital technology is disrupting traditional the views of a wide range of stakeholders, al ibl operating models and helping society both internal and external. The result is a Climate change so respond to major issues in a more agile multi-year vision that represents a significant ns and scalable way – from managing the step forward to a more holistic approach lu and energy impacts of climate change to making to sustainability that informs and integrates healthcare and education more universally all of our business activities. accessible. As a large telecommunications and technology company, Telstra has a Our purpose is to create a brilliant connected fundamental role to play in helping our future for everyone, and our sustainability customers and society adapt to technological strategy is key to achieving this. e od change and the opportunities it brings. Ev n r Digit The core elements of the strategy and n e y on co al futures go We want everyone to thrive in a digital world. ct e or strategic focus areas reflect the issues ed c hf that are most material for our business, Te In FY16 we reviewed our approach to the areas in which we have the expertise N e t w or k s sustainability in order to make sure our strategy and activities continued to support to make a meaningful impact, and where our corporate direction and generated we see opportunities to use innovative, stakeholder value. The review took into account tech-based solutions to help address major the changing organisational environment, societal challenges and opportunities. Core elements Focus areas Responsible business Ethics and governance Culture and capabilities We will be a sustainable, globally trusted company that Being ethical, responsible and transparent Creating a world-class workplace people want to work for and with in how we do business where our people can thrive Digital futures Everyone connected Networks Tech for good We will foster strong, inclusive communities that are Ensuring everyone can enjoy the benefits Delivering leading Using the power of technology to empowered to thrive in a digital world of being connected telecommunications networks enable all young people to thrive Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Environment and resource efficiency We will use technology to address environmental challenges and Mitigating climate change impacts and helping Using resources efficiently and minimising help our suppliers, customers and communities do the same our customers and communities to do the same environmental impacts across our value chain Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 07 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our customers Approach Giving our customers more Universal Service Obligation We want to ensure we offer our customers The future of the Universal Service In this environment of constant technological world-leading products, services and content. Obligation (USO) – the Australian change, innovation, disruption and Government’s policy guaranteeing competition, only delivering brilliant This year we switched on our one millionth that no matter where someone lives, customer experiences will allow us Telstra Air® hotspot, giving mobile and eligible they can have access to a standard to serve more customers, successfully broadband customers even more places to telephone service – is an important launch innovative new products, enjoy free and unlimited data on Australia’s issue for many customers, especially enhance our reputation and maintain largest Wi-Fi network. those living in rural and regional areas. our market-leading position. With technology moving so fast, many The Government’s nbn™ policy is to build We recognise we have more work to do in customers want the latest mobile handset. a high-speed fixed broadband network order to deliver brilliant experiences for all That is why we introduced Go Mobile Swap using a mix of technologies to 100 per our customers. We are developing a range lease plans allowing customers to upgrade cent of the population, which could in of initiatives that will deliver seamless, their handset after 12 months for $99, provided time become the delivery mechanism simple and integrated customer interactions. they return their working device and sign up for USO services. Telstra is open to Continued investment in the digitisation of to a new 24 month handset and service plan. changes to the USO, but only if customers our business will also improve the way our are not disadvantaged by those changes. customers deal with us. For small business we also launched our We will continue to advocate for rural first home office bundle which pairs some and regional customers to ensure they We will continue to bring world class products of our best business-grade inclusions and have confidence in the availability of a to the market, because they help empower productivity tools with key features from our reliable voice service. our customers to thrive in a connected world. consumer bundles to help customers thrive We will differentiate these products through during business hours and enjoy their the speed, coverage and reliability of our downtime outside of work. networks, and through innovative design and new experiences, including access to media content. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 08 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our NPS We measure customer experience using the Net Promoter System (NPS). NPS enables us to measure our customers’ experiences and respond to their feedback. Strategic NPS is a measure that uses independent market research to tell us how our customers and non-customers perceive Telstra, relative to our competitors. Episode NPS directly measures the actual service experience our customers have with Telstra. In FY17 our Strategic NPS for the financial year was stable against last year’s result. Importantly, there was a significant increase in the last six months, partly reflecting the work that has been done to rebuild trust with our customers after the impact of the network interruptions Making connecting easier Providing help whenever it’s needed when a premise will be connected and the we experienced in the second half of 2016. We are migrating more customers to the nbn™ Telstra continues to look for ways to provide internet speeds and mobile coverage quality network than ever before and continue to our customers with the help they need, when at the customer’s new address. Our Episode NPS delivered a positive work to streamline the connection experience. they need it, through whichever platform result, up three points on the year to hit We also continue to simplify the ordering suits them. our target for FY17. Telstra has measured In an Australian first, we have introduced and delivery processes for our IP products, Episode NPS for some time but this is the Telstra Gateway Frontier®, an all-in-one Currently more than three million unique so our business customers have a seamless the first year that we have introduced hybrid modem, designed to get customers visitors each month use the Telstra 24x7 end-to-end experience, from the time they it as a specific corporate measure. This connected in minutes via our mobile network App® to manage their accounts and services. order an IP product to the point of delivery. has been important to help our people using their home broadband data while we We’ve consolidated the Telstra 24x7 App Thirty per cent of customer orders are have a stronger connection with what complete a fixed network installation or for iPhone® and the app for iPad® to a single now being processed via the new platform, they’re doing in their roles and how that migration to the nbn network. It also allows app that will work on both devices, doubling providing faster delivery times, greater then translates into how customers are customers to get online over our mobile the features available for the app on iPad®. transparency on the status of their order feeling and the feedback they provide. network if there is a fixed network disruption and improved billing. Customers now benefit from streamlined in their local area, providing peace of For more information on customer experience, services when they are moving homes, as mind that home-based businesses in please refer to Deliver brilliant customer we have simplified the number of connection particular value. experiences in our 2017 Annual Report. fees and are providing more clarity about Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 09 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Materiality Each year Telstra conducts a materiality While last year we chose to consolidate our All material topics identified are included in Emerging topics assessment in accordance with GRI G4 topics to high-level material impacts, this our reporting and are listed in the table below. Our materiality assessment has also guidelines and guided by AccountAbility’s year we have kept our topics as they were Detailed information on these topics, as highlighted a range of emerging topics AA1000 Principle Standard (2008). This originally identified and defined through well as how we are managing them can, with the potential to become more significant process makes sure our activities and the materiality process. This has allowed be found throughout this Bigger Picture 2017 over time. programs remain focused on the issues, us greater visibility over specific topics, Sustainability Report and on our website. risks and opportunities that will most which will allow us to better respond to Where applicable, more information may Emerging topics identified this year include: impact Telstra and our stakeholders. risks and opportunities. also be found within our 2017 Annual Report. declining stakeholder trust in business; women’s empowerment and the role of This year, we considered materiality in the technology; business involvement in political context of global trends, the UN Sustainable Material topics and social advocacy; the role of ICT in Development Goals and our overall corporate preventing illegal online behaviours; and strategy. Topics were identified through Business resilience Industry disruption and competition executive remuneration. analysis of a wide variety of sources as well as ongoing engagement and feedback from our Changing regulatory landscape Mobile phones, base stations and health Early identification of these topics allows stakeholders. In FY17, we engaged more than us to properly monitor their impact on 120 community and industry stakeholders, Climate change resilience Network investment Telstra and our stakeholders and be government representatives, institutional proactive in our response. investors and Telstra employees to get their Community investment New growth and business expansion view of our most material sustainability issues. Topics were then prioritised according Customer experience People capability to their impact on our stakeholders, the wider society in which we operate, and Telstra’s Cyber safety Privacy and data security ability to address or influence each topic. The results of our materiality assessment inform Digital inclusion Product responsibility Telstra’s sustainability strategy and priorities, as well as our reporting. Diversity and inclusion Resource efficiency The outcomes of the materiality assessment Energy and emissions Social and environmental innovation show that our most material issues remain largely unchanged; they include customer experience, privacy and data security, ethics Environmental risk and compliance Supply chain values and governance, and digital inclusion. Others such as human rights are of increasing Ethics, values and governance Sustainable engagement interest to stakeholders, with many jurisdictions, including Australia, developing Health and safety Talent attraction or considering legislative responses to the issue of modern slavery. Human rights Workplace relations Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 10 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing material impacts across our value chain Telstra’s influence extends beyond our Supply chain Telstra Customers and community own operations and as a result, so do our economic, social and environmental Our purpose, vision and values impacts. We have therefore taken a broad view of how we create value for our business and stakeholders. In accordance with the GRI G4 Framework, the infographic identifies the key stages of Telstra’s value chain, including our supply chain, our direct operations, as well as our relationships with customers and the community through to Products manufacture Products and solutions Customer end of life. We purchase products We offer a broad suite of We curate innovative including electronics and connectivity, media and content technologies and capabilities As part of our annual materiality process, network equipment which to customers in Australia, as well from around the world to we determine where along our value chain we provide to our customers as connectivity and enterprise deliver exceptional experiences each of our material topics and SDG priority or use for our network and services globally. for all our customers. targets is most relevant. For more detail business operations. on the different stages of our value chain, End of life including our key stakeholders, SDG We apply integrated and collaborative approaches to priority targets and material topics, realise business value through please refer to our reporting website. increased recovery, reuse and recycling. Telstra is a signatory and participant to the following voluntary sustainability initiatives: Service providers Network and operations Community • Australian Packaging Covenant We procure services including Our network underpins Telstra’s We aim to embed social and those relating to customer support, global operations, including our environmental considerations • CDP professional services, network products, services and overall into the business to create • FTSE4Good installation and maintenance, customer experience. value for our company customer technicians, property and stakeholders. • Global e-Sustainability Initiative management as well as other • Global Reporting Initiative non-core services. • MobileMuster • Supply Nation • Telco Together Foundation • Transparency International Australia • United Nations Global Compact Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 11 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Stakeholder engagement At Telstra, we regard stakeholder engagement Stakeholder group Stakeholder group as the foundation of our approach to sustainability. Our stakeholders are any group or individual who influences or is impacted by Telstra’s activities, or who are Customers Shareholders and investment community interested in how we address our strategic Our customers are residential consumers, small Our investment community comprises institutional priorities. Engagement with each identified to medium enterprises, large companies and investors, buy and sell-side analysts, as well as stakeholder group is important to confirm we organisations, as well as government 1.4 million shareholders, some of whom invest with understand their expectations and respond social and environmental preferences to their various interests and concerns. We want our stakeholders to be advocates for Telstra, so we work to develop quality Communities relationships through meaningful engagement We engage with our communities wherever we operate, Media and dialogue. This helps us to keep abreast of including non-profit organisations and program partners, We regularly engage with representatives from print, evolving social and environmental expectations, as well as community groups and individuals local to radio, TV, social and online media at a local, national and to use stakeholder insights to develop our operations and international level targeted products, services and programs, as well as to improve the customer experience. Our approach to stakeholder engagement is Employees Unions guided by the Telstra values. Our engagement We work closely with the relevant employee trade Our workforce is large and diverse, with more than takes many forms, including face-to-face unions including Community and Public Sector Union, 32,000 employees in 20 countries interactions, surveys, social media and Communications Electrical Plumbing Union and market research. We are active in industry Professionals Australia groups, participate in relevant networks and forums, and have teams across the company that manage relationships with specific Government stakeholder groups. We engage with government at local, state and federal Suppliers levels in Australia, as well as in other countries. Engagement Our commitment extends to building greater can be with ministers, party leaders and department staff We engage with approximately 4,500 domestic trust with our stakeholders by being and 3,300 international suppliers transparent, responsive and accountable. The following table presents a list of our key stakeholders and their interests, and how we engage with them. Industry Regulators We engage with our sector peers and competitors, We work closely with industry regulators in all For more details on how we engage with as well as ICT and telecommunications specific associations our markets our stakeholders, please refer to our GRI Index available on our reporting website. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 12 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions About this report Our reporting Reporting standards Reporting scope Assurance Our reporting comprises this Bigger Picture Our sustainability reporting is prepared in Our sustainability reporting covers the This year we engaged EY to provide a limited 2017 Sustainability Report and our reporting accordance with the United Nations Global financial year 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 assurance in accordance with ISAE 3000 over: website, which contains infographics, videos, Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress; (FY17) for Telstra Corporation Limited unless 1. o  ur materiality process, including the way case studies and comprehensive data packs. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core otherwise stated. we have identified material topics A concise summary of our approach is also Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4 As our international operations expand 2. accuracy and completeness of disclosures available in Telstra’s 2017 Annual Report. Guidelines); and AccountAbility’s AA1000 we are expanding our sustainability data for three material topics Principles Standard 2008. This year we have aligned and structured our collection, starting with our most material 3. a selection of performance metrics. reporting to the three elements and strategic The GRI aspects and indicators we’ve reported impacts with a view to broadening the scope focus areas of our new strategy. Material on throughout this report and on our website of our reporting over time. Wherever possible We also obtained a reasonable level of topics identified through our materiality have been determined through our materiality and relevant under the GRI G4 Guidelines assurance in accordance with ASAE 3410 assessment have been aligned to these areas. process. The GRI Index accompanying we have extended the scope of this report over our Energy and Emissions Report In some cases, topics may be addressed in this report contains a full list of indicators, to include our operations across the Telstra submitted in accordance with our obligations more than one section. Some topics represent including their internal and external boundaries Group, as well as a discussion of any broader under the National Greenhouse and Energy global challenges, such as responding to and scope, and their alignment with the UNGC. impacts across our value chain. Reporting (NGER) Act 2007. the threat of climate change and respecting In instances where aspect boundaries Information regarding the controlled Please see EY’s Assurance Statement on human rights. Others are key challenges extend beyond the scope of our reporting, entities in the Telstra Group can be found our reporting website for more detail on the for our industry, such as protecting our we are working to increase our disclosures. on our website. scope and conclusions of their assurance. customers’ privacy and data security, and ensuring all vulnerable customers can access the benefits enabled by modern communications technologies. For each topic we have provided an overview of our approach and progress across the reporting period, along with 2020 targets and FY18 targets where relevant, with the aim of providing readers with a clear view of how we’re addressing our most material impacts. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 13 Responsible Highlights business 99% Paid Purchased of Telstra Group employees and $1.7 billion $1.1 million contractors completed mandatory in Australian income tax of goods and services Ethics and governance annual compliance training from Indigenous suppliers How we do business is important to us. We are committed to acting responsibly and being transparent and accountable, wherever we operate. A growing challenge is that the expectations – social, economic and environmental that our employees, customers, investors, regulators and the community place on us continue to change. Partly driven by an unprecedented Created employment Sent more than world of technology innovation and digital disruption opportunities for 17 million but also by pressing social issues and growing environmental challenges. 600+ messages to customers people through our on mobile use, EME and We recognise that our long-term performance and Supported and Indigenous tips to reduce exposure sustainability of our company depends on how we Workforce programs respond to these changing expectations, not just within our own operations but into our supply chain and relationships with our business partners. Sustainability 2020 Target 100 per cent completion of our new enterprise-wide values-based conduct training Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Ethics, values and governance Approach Our governance framework plays an integral role in supporting our business and helping Telstra is committed to excellence Our five core values1: us deliver on our strategy. It provides the in corporate governance, accountability structure through which our strategy and and ethical behaviour. We believe in creating show you care business objectives are set, our performance and promoting a strong values-based culture is monitored, and the risks we face are and maintaining transparency in our activities. better together managed. It includes a clear framework Above all, we recognise that long-term for decision making and accountability across success depends largely on ‘how’ we do business. trust each other to deliver our business and provides guidance on the standards of behaviour we expect of each other. Across our operations, we promote a fair make the complex simple Our governance framework includes: and equitable culture through our Code of •o  pen, clear and timely communications Conduct, mandatory compliance training, and support and incentives for employees find your courage with our shareholders Working ethically who show care, creativity and courage in •a  skilled, experienced, diverse and Telstra’s Code of Conduct and our Values set their work. We have strict guidelines to help independent Board, with a Board Committee the behavioural standards for everyone who employees pursue high ethical standards, structure suited to our needs works for or on behalf of Telstra. The Code Living our values avoid gifts and bribes, and speak out if they •c  lear delegation, decision making and of Conduct helps us take a consistent, global A purpose on its own is not enough. We also approach to important ethics and compliance have any concerns about improper behaviour. accountability frameworks need values to express what we stand for and issues. Throughout the year we review our guide the way we do things. Our values are • r obust systems of risk management policies and procedures to align with all Progress core to our business and we align everything and assurance relevant regulatory requirements. we do to them. •T  elstra Values, Code of Conduct and In pursuit of our vision and purpose All Telstra employees are responsible for policy framework which define the Our vision is to be a world class technology Governance at Telstra standards of behaviour we expect knowing and following the ethical, legal, and company that empowers people to connect. We are committed to excellence in corporate of each other as we deliver on our policy requirements that apply to their jobs governance, transparency and accountability. purpose and achieve our strategy. and for reporting any suspected violations of The telecommunications industry is This is essential for the long term performance law or our code. Our Executives and managers experiencing enormous growth; network We regularly review our governance and sustainability of our company, and to are accountable for creating and promoting a traffic is growing faster than any other period arrangements, to reflect developments protect and enhance the interests of our workplace environment in which compliance of time and digital technology is changing our in market practice, expectations and shareholders and other stakeholders. and ethical business conduct are expected world. Telstra is at the heart of this change regulation as appropriate, and we comply and encouraged. — and we’re helping make it happen by with the third edition of the ASX Corporate connecting everything to everyone. Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Our purpose is to create a brilliant connected Principles and Recommendations. future for everyone. To learn more about Governance at Telstra, please refer to our 1 The Telstra Values are registered trade marks of Telstra 2017 Corporate Governance Statement. Corporation Ltd ABN 33 051 775 556. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 15 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Compliance training a confidential, anonymous whistleblowing Training is an integral element of our process that provides appropriate protections compliance framework. It ensures our for our people and members of the public employees and contractors are aware (including those in our supply chain) to report of their legal, regulatory and compliance their concerns. Our process is supported by responsibilities. an independent service provider specialising in handling sensitive reports and disclosures. All new employees and contractors are In July 2017 we enhanced this service required to complete an online induction improving accessibility for our international training course. The induction course operations and stakeholders. covers topics such as our values and code of conduct, key policies, fraud and ethical Telstra’s Group Whistleblowing Committee behaviour, health, safety and environment, consists of senior executives and is chaired discrimination and bullying and accessibility by the Company Secretary. Our Group and disability awareness. All employees and Whistleblowing Committee monitors contractors are required to complete annual disclosures, investigations, recommendations refresher training, with each compliance topic and where appropriate the implementation covered every two years. The two exceptions, of actions, and our Audit and Risk Committee which are included annually, are our Structural overseas the whistleblowing process. Separation Undertaking, which responds to As at 1 July 2016, there were 19 whistleblowing our regulatory commitments as part of our alerts in progress within the Telstra Group. agreement with nbn co. and Our Workplace, During FY17, 76 whistleblowing alerts were which covers key company policies and Commitment to anti-bribery our minimum standards in relation to opened and 78 were closed. As at 30 June standards of behaviour for employees. ethical dealings which are described in 2017, 17 remain in progress. and anti-corruption We monitor, report and manage training our Supplier Code of Conduct. Telstra’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption For whistleblowing contact details, completion rates. Employees who fail to Policy applies to all Telstra employees and We seek to ensure that gifts, prizes and visit our website. complete mandatory compliance training contractors and is communicated through hospitality are not given or accepted in without a valid reason may face disciplinary mandatory compliance training. Our inappropriate circumstances, including Political donations action. As at 30 June 2017, 99 per cent of anti-bribery and anti-corruption training where the offering or acceptance may Telstra does not make political donations. Telstra Group employees and contractors is designed to educate our employees compromise (or be perceived to compromise) However, like many other publicly listed have completed this year’s mandatory and contractors on recognising the many independence, or be construed as a bribe. companies, we do pay fees to attend refresher course. We are currently forms in which bribes can appear and events organised by political parties following up with those who did not how to avoid them, even at the risk of Whistleblowing where those events allow for discussion complete the training to determine losing business opportunities. We encourage our people across the Telstra on major policy issues with key opinion any disciplinary consequences. Group to take action if they have any concerns leaders and policy makers. We expect that our Suppliers and Business about unethical, illegal or improper behaviour. Partners acting on our behalf comply with Our whistleblowing policy is supported by Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 16 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Managing our tax affairs We have adopted the Board of Taxation’s Our approach to tax strategy and governance Voluntary Tax Transparency Code, providing the recommended disclosures in this report We are committed to the highest standards and in Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements of tax governance. We comply with all tax laws in the 2017 Annual Report. and obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and pay tax consistent with our Our Australian tax contribution business presence and operations. Telstra makes a significant contribution to In accordance with our Tax Risk Management Australian federal, state and local government and Assurance Policy, we maintain a tax revenues. During FY17, we: conservative tax risk profile. All transactions • paid $1.7 billion in Australian income we enter into are based on commercial tax1, $0.2 billion in state payroll taxes considerations and we do not take positions and $0.1 billion in other Australian federal, that are tax driven, artificial or contrived, or state and local government taxes that interpret a tax law beyond its spirit and • remitted $1.2 billion in net GST intent. Where appropriate, we minimise risk (after claiming input tax credits) and uncertainty on tax matters by obtaining sign-offs from revenue authorities. • remitted $1.0 billion in Pay As You Go withholding tax deducted from We undertake a real time review of tax salaries paid to employees. We utilise our international telecommunications Our international related party transactions risks on all material transactions and are network (including submarine cables) to deliver are based on commercial considerations committed to continuous improvement On average our annual payment of corporate income tax accounts for approximately telecommunications connectivity services and and are undertaken in accordance with the of our tax compliance systems, processes solutions to customers in over 20 countries. Our OECD’s arm’s length principles (supported and practices. 2.6 per cent of total corporate income tax collected by the ATO2. substantial overseas operations are located in by regular benchmarking). We comply with We are committed to full transparency Hong Kong, Singapore, the Philippines, UK and all Australian and foreign transfer pricing and disclosure in all dealings with The Telstra Group’s effective income tax rate the US. tax laws and filing obligations. revenue authorities. was 31.4 per cent, which is in line with the Australian corporate tax rate of 30 per cent3. During FY17, our material transactions with This open and cooperative approach our offshore subsidiaries included: 1 Income  tax paid by Telstra Corporation Limited includes regular interactions with the Our international related party dealings on behalf of the Australian tax consolidated group •p aying and receiving fees for (Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned Australian Tax Office (ATO) under the Pre Australia’s domestic and international international connectivity Australian subsidiaries). Lodgement and Post Lodgement Compliance tax laws are among the strongest in the Review Programs and the Justified Trust developed world, resulting in high levels •p aying for customer and network 2 Average percentage calculated using our net Australian support services tax consolidated group cash tax paid divided by ATO initiative. The ATO categorises Telstra of tax compliance. net corporate income tax collections for the past three Corporation Limited as a key taxpayer •p aying and charging interest on cash years (i.e. FY14 to FY16) based on the Commissioner of for both income tax and GST within the balances used to fund our subsidiaries’ Taxation’s Annual Report 2015/16. ATO’s risk-differentiation framework. day to day operations. 3 See Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements in the 2017 Annual Report. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 17 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Protecting our customers’ data and privacy Approach Our employees and contractors are subject As soon as we became aware of the issue, to the Telstra Code of Conduct which requires we disabled the SMS service until we could As digital technologies become deeply them to treat the personal and confidential be confident in the operation of the system integrated in people’s lives, generating greater information of others with respect at all and notified our customers of the incident. quantities of data, the twin challenges of times. In addition, we take steps to reduce privacy and cybersecurity loom ever larger. Also, in February 2017, we successfully any risk of unauthorised access to our Our customers and the broader community defended an appeal by the Office of the facilities, information, data or other assets. are concerned about who has access to this Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC) Throughout the organisation we have data and we’re committed to being transparent against a decision from the Administration defined responsibilities and accountabilities, in how we manage this information. Appeals Tribunal (AAT) on whether we had well understood policies and procedures, to provide our customers with access to Telstra manages these challenges through a structured communication and training network metadata relating to the use of their stringent series of codes, policies and security and regular reporting practices. We continue mobile services. We had successfully argued controls, which protect customers’ data to review and expand our framework as in the AAT that we had not breached the from intrusions and unauthorised access, we transition to a world class technology Privacy Act by refusing to provide a customer and commit our employees to the strictest company to ensure that it remains fit for access to data generated within our mobile standards of privacy and confidentiality. purpose. This year we refreshed our Privacy network while carrying calls and other Compliance with these codes, policies and Statement, to reflect the evolution in the communications relating to the use of his security controls are closely monitored. Telstra services and technology we offer and our mobile service. also has strict processes and operational commitment to transparent engagement guidelines in place for managing privacy with our customers. Responding to new privacy legislation related issues such as metadata retention, Find out more on our website. On 13 February 2017, the Federal Parliament copyright infringement cases, and information passed an amendment to the Privacy Act to requests from government. Responding to privacy incidents introduce a mandatory data breach notification and complaints scheme. The regime will come into force in Progress In FY17, there were two notable events February 2018 and will require notification to regarding our customers’ information. the OAIC and impacted individuals in the event Protecting our customers’ privacy of a data breach that is likely to cause serious Our Group Privacy Compliance Framework In February 2017, a privacy incident arose harm to impacted individuals. is integral to the way we both manage and out of a network disruption that affected ensure adherence to our privacy compliance the Telstra Chatswood Exchange. As a goals and obligations. As part of our efforts to result of the loss of power to the exchange, protect customers’ personal information and around 300,000 SMSs were not received by our network from unauthorised access we use their intended recipient but by an unrelated a combination of technical solutions, security third party. controls and internal processes. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 18 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Managing cyber security organisational levels, explain the link between We also provide assistance to emergency At Telstra, there are three main ways security posture and business risks, and services organisations in life-threatening we manage cyber security: facilitate a solution-driven discussion to and time-critical situations. remediate any security gaps. Technology We take protecting customer data very We have robust security processes that seriously. To protect your privacy, Telstra We use a range of technologies and security include technical reviews of projects and carefully assesses each request and only controls to minimise the threat, likelihood solutions, due diligence of vendors and discloses customer information if the request and impact of unauthorised access to our acquisitions to ensure project, procurement is in accordance with the law. In FY17, Telstra networks and systems. Such technologies and acquisition gateways (among other received and acted on 74,867 requests for and controls include extensive logging and reviews) are only passed once appropriate customer information. monitoring capabilities to pre-empt and security measures are in place. proactively prepare for threats to our internal and external environments. Our infrastructure People Types of law enforcement is configured in alignment with recognised Number We invest in our people to best prepare requests industry approaches which are supported by them against the range of different methods company-wide policies and standards, backed used by malicious actors to gain access to Telstra customer information, 65,715 up by a robust compliance and audit regime. systems. We have mandatory annual training call records and pre-warrant We continuously invest in our security for all employees and contractors, and checks capabilities. Our investment includes run drills on our employees to test the maintaining and enhancing our existing effectiveness of our training. Life-threatening situations and 5,917 technologies to continue to stay ahead of Triple Zero emergency calls Being transparent with our customers new security threats. We also deploy new technologies to ensure we can adapt to Telstra’s annual Transparency Report aims to Court orders 479 the range of changing security threats. Our give our customers more information about commitment to security has also seen us make our legal obligations as a carrier and carriage service provider. Copyright DNS Blocking 139 substantial investments in firms which provide Telstra employees working at the Integrated Security security technologies products and platforms. Like all telecommunications companies Operations Command Centre. operating in Australia, we are required by law Warrants for interception 2,617 Process or access to stored to assist a range of Government agencies who We apply Telstra’s Five Knows of Cyber request customer information for purposes communications Security as a business engagement framework such as enforcing criminal law and laws for informing our broader risk management imposing financial penalties, protecting public Total 74,867 processes and decision-making. Crucially, the revenue and safeguarding national security. Five Knows of Cyber Security is both educative and constructive. It is used to introduce security concepts to employees at all Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 19 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Managing our supply chain Approach Our supply chain In FY17, Telstra Group engaged with Telstra’s purchasing spend puts us in a approximately 4,500 domestic and 3,300 unique position to work with our suppliers international suppliers, with our top to positively influence their environmental, 100 suppliers comprising 80 per cent social and ethical performance. Our Group of our total spend. Our key areas of Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of spend include electronic and network Conduct provide a framework for how we equipment (52 per cent) as well as the manage our relationship with suppliers and procurement of services (48 per cent). contractors. Critical areas include privacy and information security, human rights, Electronics and network equipment fraud and corruption and environmental includes mobile devices (phones, compliance. We are currently strengthening tablets, wireless internet), IT equipment this approach through a dedicated supplier (computers, modems, servers) and network governance program which will improve our components (cables, wireless antenna, systematic monitoring of risks across each exchanges). These items are provided supplier’s lifecycle. directly to customers, used to supply our network and data services, or used by The key principles of our approach to Telstra employees. sustainable supply chain management are reflected within our Supplier Code of Our procurement of services includes Conduct, as well as other key procurement activities that relate to installing and policies and processes. The Telstra Supplier maintaining our network, connecting Code of Conduct sets out our minimum Progress of work focuses on key risk category such as our customers to the network, developing operational, commercial, business continuity, standards and is modelled on other codes, software, providing customer support, Managing risks in the supply chain privacy, information security, health and safety, including the Electronic Industry Citizen anti-bribery and anti-corruption, fraud, trade providing non-core services such Coalition Code of Conduct. We expect In FY17, we recognised that to further as property management, as well embed risk management, we need to sanctions, export controls, labour practices suppliers to meet the standards described (human rights), and environmental practices. as professional consulting services. in our Supplier Code of Conduct and enhance our enterprise wide approach Network payments (e.g. carrier, are working with them to achieve this. to governing our suppliers. To embed the approach, we have undertaken international roaming and wholesale We are in the process of embedding an training within our procurement team including capacity) as well as other payments approach to consistently manage our risks an increased focus on key risk categories, (e.g. pass-through and regulatory) (including sustainability risks) in our supply including labour practices (human rights). have been excluded. chain. Our supplier governance program This training will be further enhanced in FY18. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 20 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Increasing the social impact of Through the Indigenous Workforce Program This year we began upskilling IWP participants Supporting Australian small our suppliers (IWP) we partner with local Indigenous groups with nine people undertaking asbestos business suppliers to undertake grounds maintenance at our containing material pit remediation training. Telstra is proud to continue its partnership with sites. We have a large number of key facilities The first bundle of pit remediation work has We spend around $2.9 billion each year 13 non-profit groups around Australia to create across regional and remote Australia including been issued to the IWP team in the Kimberley, with approximately 7,300 small business employment opportunities for people living with radio towers, mobiles base stations and Western Australia, resulting in the creation suppliers. This year we implemented disability or from disadvantaged backgrounds. exchanges. Grounds maintenance for of three extra local jobs. This program aims a change to our payment terms for These groups continue to perform grounds these facilities is critical to maintaining to build on its success, providing upskilling Australian small businesses which aims maintenance at around 6,000 of our network our communications infrastructure but is and employment opportunities for remote to assist them to better manage their sites and also regularly clean 900 network often challenging due to their remoteness. communities whilst also reducing costs cash flow. This change came into effect buildings. At 30 June this year, 515 people associated with travel to remote locations. at the end of FY17 and has resulted in living with disability and 36 people from a The IWP employs more than 73 people at over our Australian small business suppliers disadvantaged background were accessing 550 sites across Queensland, the Northern being paid within 30 days or less. employment through the program. Territory and Western Australia. Approximately 88 per cent of our Last year, we expanded our engagement Australian small business suppliers with Indigenous business suppliers through were already being paid within this our membership with Supply Nation, an timeframe. This change is intended to organisation that connects Australian provide our Australian small business corporates and government organisations suppliers with a more regular cash flow. with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander We were also one of the first signatories business suppliers. In FY17, we spent to the Business Council of Australia’s $1.1 million with Indigenous enterprises, recently published Australian Supplier exceeding our target of $1 million. Payment Code, a voluntary, industry-led initiative that is designed to help improve To learn more about our broader the viability and vitality of small businesses. reconciliation commitments, please refer to our Reconciliation Action Plan. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 21 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Human rights Understanding our human rights risks Our particular business context means there are a number of human rights risk areas that need to be managed. Telstra is an international diversified business with a large workforce and contractor base. We also have a large supply chain where potentially high risk activities are undertaken, such as contracting to manufacture electronic equipment in countries where there are higher human rights risks. This year we identified seven salient human rights issues across our value chain. These cover the potential impacts we have on our employees, our Approach The compliance plan requires each business supply chain, business partners and the communities in which we operate unit to identify and assess their operations We work across our value chain with the aim for human rights risks and to implement and include: of ensuring that we and our business partners appropriate controls with a preference towards operate without infringing on human rights. integrating these into existing processes. Since 2011 Telstra has been a signatory to Labour rights (human rights) Reported in this section the United Nations Global Compact, which As part of the plan, we identified areas of the including: commits companies to 10 guiding principles business that are higher risk from a human • forced or compulsory labour on human rights, labour rights, environmental rights perspective, and these teams will • wages and benefits protection, and measures to fight corruption. receive specialised human rights training. • work hours Our commitment to respect and support This includes personnel who purchase products or services, develop labour • child labour human rights is aligned to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, contracts or manage third parties. and is defined in our Code of Conduct and Freedom of Refer to Employment The first area to receive training on human Human Rights Policy. association and workplace relations rights will be the procurement function in early FY18 as part of the broader training Progress on the supplier governance program Health and safety Refer to Promoting health, (refer to Managing our supply chain). safety and wellbeing Managing human rights This year we responded to the UK Modern Human rights in our supply chain Privacy and Refer to Protecting our Slavery Act 2015 (MSA), which requires This year, we incorporated the management data protection customers’ data and privacy companies operating in the UK with annual of human rights risk in our supply chain into global turnover exceeding £36 million our new supplier governance program (refer to publish an annual ‘slavery and human to Managing our supply chain). To inform the Refer to Employment Anti-discrimination trafficking statement’. Our Modern Slavery supplier governance model, we completed a and workplace relations Statement 2016 is available on our website supplier human rights risk assessment that and we will continue to publish our Statement was aligned to the guidance outlined in the Anti-bribery Refer to Ethics, values annually as well as provide updates on our UN Guiding Principles on Business and and corruption and governance progress in our annual Sustainability Report. Human Rights. To ensure a consistent approach to managing The outputs of the risk assessment have Access to grievance Refer to Ethics, values human rights across Telstra, this year we been integrated into the supplier risk mechanisms and governance developed a human rights compliance plan. governance model which will consolidate This will form part of our overall compliance all risk areas to determine an overall program and includes obligations relating management approach. These risk areas have been taken into consideration when developing our to our most salient human rights risk areas management approach for human rights. (see shaded area for further information). Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 22 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Product responsibility Approach Transparency in communication Helping customers understand our charges increase in our complaints relating to and marketing To help reduce bill shock and set clear upfront charging disputes. Delivering brilliant customer experiences Taking the lead on nbn™ data speeds expectations about our fees and charges, We’ve been working on a number of initiatives is about providing the best products and we’ve introduced Order Estimator. Customers on resolving customer concerns before they are services on the best networks with a sales, There can be confusion among Australians have told us they are often surprised by the escalated to the TIO and we have a customer service and support network that is simple, about the speeds they will receive when charges they find on their bill, particularly improvement plan in place which includes: brilliant, intuitive and increasingly digital. they connect to the nbn network. Many expect after purchasing a product or service when Being transparent, accountable and the speed would be the same for everyone, • re-designing our nbn complaints process connection fees and pro-rata charges often accessible in all aspects of these relationships no matter which service provider they choose, apply. Order Estimator is a tool that helps our • setting the right nbn speed expectations; helps to build trust and maintain a strong where they live or what technology nbn co. Frontline clearly explain at point of sale the customers prior to them taking up foundation for the future. We continuously is using to connect their area. But like any expected charges the customer will see on an nbn service review and update our communications network, speeds on the nbn network vary their next and subsequent bills, as well as • providing comprehensive training and to ensure we are providing people with the depending on providers, technology used, providing an order timeframe. The Order accreditation for our sales teams with latest information clearly and simply. We time of day, location and a number of other Estimate is then emailed to the customer a specific focus on complaint drivers take seriously our commitment to keep our factors. We have set these out for our for their records. coming from sales. customers and the community informed customers in an online guide. about product use, and to maintain an open Managing and minimising and honest dialogue on issues of concern. Setting the right speed expectations for our customers moving to the nbn network is a TIO complaints high priority and an industry challenge. While Disappointingly, in FY17 our first stage it is important that our customers are aware (Level 1) complaints to the Telecommunications of the factors that contribute to the speed Industry Ombudsman (TIO) have increased they are able to get on the nbn network, it is by 43 per cent compared to last year. also critical that they are getting the speeds they signed up for. The average number of complaints we received per 10,000 subscribers increased by 48 per We recently reviewed the speeds our customers cent in FY17. We received an average of 3.1 receive on the nbn network. While the vast first stage complaints per 10,000 subscribers, majority are receiving the speeds they signed compared to 2.1 in FY16. Whilst not unexpected, up for, a small number of our nbn customers the increase in TIO complaints is disappointing. are not. We’ve begun to proactively contact these customers to let them know the speeds A key driver of TIO complaints is nbn™ related they’re getting and in some cases, moving which is being felt across the industry. Telstra them to a speed tier their nbn service supports. is moving a significant number of customers We’re also now routinely reviewing our to the nbn every month which is causing customers’ speeds once they’re connected disruption for some of our customers. We and proactively contacting them if we believe are working with nbn co. to improve the nbn that they are not receiving the speeds they experience. We have also seen a steady signed up for. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) We acknowledge that some people are concerned In FY17, we completed 1,626 mobile base station consultation projects. 167 of National and International Standards Telstra continues to contribute to about possible health effects from electromagnetic these projects were for new sites, requiring development applications (of which all were international EME standards through chairing the International Electrotechnical energy (EME), and we are committed to addressing approved) and 1,459 were for proposals to upgrade existing sites, where we consulted in Commission TC106 committee which is these concerns responsibly. accordance with the Communications Alliance charged with developing standards for the assessment of EME compliance of electrical Mobile Phone Base Station Deployment and electronic equipment. Industry Code. ACMA confirmed that they Approach All of our base stations are assessed for EME received one objection regarding a Telstra Within Australia, the Mobile Phone Base compliance, and the ARPANSA Environmental We are proactive, transparent and fact based EME reports and compliance certificates for proposal in FY17, compared to four in FY16 Station Deployment Code (C564:2011) is in our communications regarding EME and all sites are published on the RFNSA. Every and none in FY15. The ACMA also undertook due for the periodic five year review in 2017. comply with the standards set by regulators. mobile handset we sold in FY17 was certified a preliminary investigation in relation to a Telstra’s supports a review at this time to by the manufacturer as compliant with the Telstra site and found that Telstra complied ensure that the Code aligns with technology We rely on the expert advice of national and with the Code requirements. progress, reflects the way carriers deploy international health authorities including the mandatory ACMA Radio Communications (Electromagnetic Radiation – Human wireless infrastructure and communicate Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear This year we published 374 community with the community. Safety Agency (ARPANSA) and the World Health Exposure) Standard 2014. consultation pages on the RFNSA. A small Organisation (WHO), and we actively contribute number of communities, including Paddington to scientific research on EME and health. Progress (NSW), Moe (VIC) and Main Arm (NSW), expressed concern about EME through We continue to provide information about EME Communicating with our customers the consultation process. We responded on our website as well as our EME help desk. Helping our customers and the community to these concerns through extended We also invite customers to go directly to the keep abreast of the latest information is community consultation, individual meetings WHO, ARPANSA, Australian Communications important to us. This year, we continued our and our proactive community engagement. Authority (ACMA) and ‘EMF Explained’ websites mobile safety information SMS campaign, for further information. sending out over 17 million messages Working safely around antennas The Radio Frequency National Site Archive referring customers to our website, where We continue to focus on our processes and (RFNSA) is the consultation web portal that we have information on mobile use, EME education around working safely near radio we use to provide the community with access and tips to reduce exposure. We also updated frequency (RF) Emitting equipment. We have to up to date information about new base our website with new information videos on engaged with a number of industries such as station proposals across the country. The EME and health. height workers and the electricity industry to RFNSA received more than 369,000 visits develop procedures to assist these workers in FY17 to access information about network to work safely around RF emitting equipment. deployment activities, including EME and site We continue to develop the Radio Work Safe safety, for all mobile base stations nationally. Application which will provide information to non-Telstra personnel who conduct work on An example of the Radio Work Safe material developed to educate those to work safely near radio frequency sites with RF transmitting equipment. emitting equipment. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 24 Responsible Highlights business 32,293 30.1% Sustainable engagement score of employees female representation across Telstra Corporation Limited 71% Culture and capabilities As we evolve from a modern-day telecommunications provider into a future-focused technology company, we recognise our need to transform our workplace. Our operating environment is now demanding fresh skillsets and career directions, while changing expectations are reshaping workplace hours and providing new Undertook Introduced a new requirement opportunities for remote working and collaboration. 8,910 that recruitment and interview shortlists include at least Our culture and capabilities program is focusing on the volunteering days key capabilities of our people, cementing our core values in the community 50% female while driving greater simplicity and accountability across our operations. While we need new skills to support representation different technologies and services, we also need to be more flexible and proactive with our resources. This evolution of roles is not exclusive to Telstra or our business – it is something that is happening in every industry worldwide. Sustainability 2020 Target Through this change, we’re passionate about creating an Achieve a sustainable engagement score that is in line environment that’s inclusive and supportive, and making sure our workplaces give people the chance to shine. We with the global high performing norm do this with policies and practices that promote diversity and equality across our operations – and encouraging individual leaders to foster fairness and flexibility within their teams. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Building culture and engagement Approach Our values describe what we stand for and The results of the EES showed our top line All Roles Flex who we are; they should shape our decisions sustainable engagement score was 71 per Our people have varied priorities, passions We are committed to creating a worldand actions and guide how we work together; cent, which is unchanged from 2016. This and interests that it’s important they can class workplace where our people can and they provide an important compass as is encouraging as it shows sustainable balance with work. We therefore offer personally develop and professionally we accelerate our change programs. engagement was stable during a time flexibility as the starting point for all roles thrive. Our approach focuses on living our of considerable change and provides a In FY17 we introduced Enterprise Standards at Telstra. All Roles Flex is about balancing values and building a culture that is highly platform for our plans to increase to 73 to bring clarity and consistency across the work with personal life including family. engaged, customer focused, compassionate, in FY18 and 76 in FY19. It still remains short company to what we expect of each other Our retention rate of parents (both male collaborative and innovative. of the 83 per cent norm typical of global and what our customers can expect of us. and female) returning from parental leave At Telstra, we know that providing our high-performing companies. was 95 per cent in FY17. Standards are what bring our values to life, people with the right tools, resources and describing how we see, hear and feel them. The survey highlighted areas for improvement, support creates a positive work environment specifically continuing our focus on ‘making that energises people in their roles and Sustainable engagement the complex simple’. In response, we have makes us an employer of choice. This We focus our engagement activities on developed an enterprise-wide action plan includes being open to considering flexible sustainable engagement because it provides to address and respond to the feedback, ways of working for every role, prioritising a deeper understanding of the key drivers of including efforts to improve or remove overly professional development, encouraging performance. The sustainable engagement complex processes that stand in the way of our open conversations between employees metric consists of three components how people being able to deliver for our customers. and leaders, and recognising and rewarding engaged, enabled and energised our people employees who go the extra mile with are in their roles. customers. Our people are renowned for their community spirit, and we actively Our annual Employee Engagement Our five core values1: support this. Survey (EES) provides our people with an opportunity to share their views on show you care how they are experiencing working at Progress Telstra. It is an important measurement better together Living our vision, purpose and values tool as it provides insights into key culture and engagement elements such as values, Making Telstra a world-class technology sustainable engagement and leadership. trust each other to deliver company that empowers people to connect It also identifies areas where attention will require tremendous change across the and action needs to be focused. make the complex simple business and courage from every employee. It is critical that all employees use our values In FY17 we conducted a ‘pulse’ EES that to help anchor them around what matters focused on sustainable engagement, find your courage at Telstra. values, accountability and simplicity. The pulse survey was open to all Telstra Group employees and achieved our target 1 The Telstra Values are registered trade marks of Telstra of 80 per cent participation rate. Corporation Ltd ABN 33 051 775 556. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 26 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Managing performance Volunteering and giving Employees volunteered their time to a variety Telstra Alumni Throughout the year our employees set We encourage our people to get involved in of causes. They raised awareness for Cystic Since its launch in December 2012, the performance objectives with their leader issues they are passionate about by taking Fibrosis by selling roses across retail stores Telstra Alumni program has grown from that, along with our customer advocacy up their annual day of paid volunteering in Western Australia, assisted families on low a member-based loyalty program to a and financial results, form a key component leave and matching every dollar they donate incomes into home ownership with Habitat professional alumni community. Our of our short term incentive plan. through payroll giving (up to certain limits). for Humanity, and through online volunteering program now has over 26,000 members opportunities with SkillsForChange. Our and continues to outperform similar Our approach to performance at Telstra is international Telstra employees contributed alumni programs in key metrics such informed by emerging best practices and over 1,300 additional volunteering days as growth and member engagement. feedback from our people. It encourages our through events held in the UK, US and people to have ongoing conversations with throughout Asia this year. In March, we launched the new interactive their leaders throughout the year about their Alumni website that provides a more development priorities, progress and how Payroll giving personalised and user-friendly experience they can contribute to achieving Telstra’s key With the support of the Telstra Foundation, for our members. priorities. This year, our people have asked for we provide dollar-for-dollar matched payroll more clarity about what’s expected and we giving (up to $1,000 per employee per year and have responded with clear and consistent $750,000 overall), enabling employees to give performance principles to help guide how our to any registered charity in Australia. This leaders recognise the contributions of people provides an incentive for our people to donate in their team. Telstra graduates Vivien and Tim volunteering to and the freedom to choose causes they are rehabilitate penguin habitat at St Kilda’s breakwater. passionate about. Pay it Forward Our reward and recognition program, Pay it Volunteering Throughout FY17, 4.9 per cent of our Forward, rewards individuals who have put employees made donations via payroll This year, our employees contributed 8,910 the customer at the heart of everything they giving, down from 5.5 per cent the previous volunteer days, up 8.8 per cent from 8,186 do. The intention of the program is to link year. Including Telstra’s matched contribution, days in FY16, meeting our target of 30 per staff recognition with advocacy and provides more than $1.4 million was donated to 350 cent participation1. This represents a total recipients with a life-changing opportunity charities this year. value of $1.7 million. to make a difference to communities in need. This year our Pay it Forward volunteer groups spent time helping disadvantaged families in Yogyakarta, Indonesia, and alongside traditional owners in the Matuwa Kurrara Kurrara Indigenous Protected Area in Wiluna, Western Australia. 1 Target relates to Telstra Corporation full-time and part-time employees eligible for volunteering leave only. Does not include casual employees. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 27 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Developing our people Approach Progress Developing our leaders • committed to significant acceleration of The role of leadership in bringing about positive leaders’ capabilities through our core Telstra The development of a world-class technology Building a new ‘Employee Profile’ tool Leader Program. We are aiming for 80 per change was identified as an area of opportunity company requires world-class employees, cent of all senior Telstra leaders to have This year we have developed initiatives that in the FY16 EES results, and work was and at Telstra we are continuously working completed the critical development program will provide our employees the opportunity undertaken throughout FY17 to re-align, to maintain a workforce with people who for their level by FY19 to control their own development. Initiatives develop, and measure our leadership capability. have the skills, capabilities and experiences like the Employee Profile tool which will • built on the momentum gained from the to deliver on our strategy. This year we: help us understand what capabilities we executive risk training we conducted in As our company evolves, the size and nature have across the business, and where. Once • communicated Expectations of Leaders at FY16 and provided training to our Band 1 of our workforce is also changing – with the Employee Profile tool has been launched Telstra through regular senior leader forums, middle management who have significant some positions transitioning and new roles to our employees in FY18 it will allow and ensuring they are referenced and taught operational responsibility for managing being created. We are responding to these employees to self-assess their capability, in Telstra’s Leadership programs risk across the organisation. In total, 109 changes through highly responsive learning showcase their skills, and find the right sessions were delivered, reaching more • piloted the Telstra Leadership and Values and development programs, more flexible opportunities to develop their career. than 1,300 leaders. Pulse (360) with 350 of Telstra’s senior and remote-working opportunities, and leaders to provide feedback to them regarding Employees will also be able to access their leadership development programs. We how well their teams and peers see them learning needs from this online portal. Critical have also identified a number of strategic demonstrating the Leadership Competencies to our success will be creating the space and capabilities that will accelerate our cultural and Values. From FY18 onwards, all Telstra the culture where learning is what we do and transformation, change the way we work and leaders will be provided this feedback enable our people to opt in to training courses differentiate us from our competitors which and opportunities for development. will contribute to making Telstra a great place to work. In FY17, we invested over $58 million (not including labour costs) in learning At the Australian Institute of Training and and development across the Telstra Group. This equates to $1,817 per employee Development awards last year, our Leadership (full time equivalent, not including Program won Best Talent Development contractors or staff employed through agency arrangements). program, as well as the Silver Excellence in Practice award by the European Foundation of Management and Development. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 28 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace Approach We value diversity and inclusion and the benefits they bring to the Telstra Group in achieving our objectives, enhancing our reputation, and attracting, engaging and retaining talented people. At Telstra, diversity means difference, in all its forms, both visible and not visible, and includes differences that relate to gender, age, cultural background, disability, religion and sexual orientation, as well as differences in background and life experience, and interpersonal and problem solving skills. The diversity of our people should reflect our diverse global customers and the countries where we operate. The strategies we employ to support diversity and enable inclusion are in service of our business strategy, as well as imperatives around fairness and sustainability. We recruit, develop, promote and pay our people in a way that supports our commitment to being more diverse and inclusive. We are also open to considering flexible ways of working in every role. Everyone has a part to play in actively and intentionally behaving with inclusion in mind. Our approach to diversity and inclusion is led by our Diversity Council, which is chaired by the CEO and comprises the entire CEO Leadership Team. Through this forum, along with our diversity policy and leadership framework, we reinforce our expectations of all leaders to lead inclusively and value difference. We also have an active Diversity Council in each of our Business Units. Serina, Telstra Security Product Specialist. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Diversity measurable objectives Our diversity policy provides the framework for the Board to set our measurable objectives for achieving diversity and to annually assess our progress in achieving them. The table below summarises these objectives and our progress against them, as at 30 June 2017. Measure Progress/Result in respect of FY17 (or as otherwise stated) Objective in respect of FY18 Women on the Board Objective – There will be at least three women on the Board, representing a female gender representation There will be at least four women on the Board, among non-executive Directors of at least 30%, with an aspiration to achieve 40% female representation representing a female gender representation among non-executive Directors by 2020. among non-executive Directors of at least 40%. Progress – As at 30 June 2017, there were four female Directors on the Board (including the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee), representing a female gender representation among non-executive Directors of 44%. Female representation Objective – 45% female representation in graduate intake selected in 2017, with an aspiration to achieve 50% female representation in the graduate intake in graduate intake 50% female representation by 2020. selected in 2018, with an aspiration to also achieve Result – 52.7% female representation in graduate intake selected in 2017. 10% representation of people with a disability and 5% Indigenous representation among the graduate intake by 2020. Promotion rates Objective – Promotion rates for women to exceed their representation at Business Unit level. Promotion rates for women to exceed their for women Result – Promotion rates for women exceeded their representation in Telstra overall, and in eight out representation at Business Unit level. of 11 business units. Engagement of Objective – Engagement of identified groups equal to or greater than Telstra-wide engagement score, Engagement of identified groups’ equal to or greater identified groups(i) with any negative differences not statistically significant. than Telstra-wide engagement score, with any Result – Engagement of women exceeded the Telstra-wide engagement score. Engagement of Indigenous negative differences not statistically significant. employees, employees with a disability, culturally and linguistically diverse employees and gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex employees was lower than overall engagement, with the differences for employees with a disability and culturally and linguistically diverse employees being statistically significant. In order to achieve our FY18 targets for engagement of identified groups, we will continue our efforts through inclusive leadership learning experience, to help leaders better understand bias and adopt inclusive leadership behaviours and enable flexible ways of working to recognise the varied priorities, passion and interests that our people have in and out of Telstra. Female representation(ii) Objective – Female representation at 30 June 2017 of 32% (Telstra Total) and 30% (Executive Management). FY18 – Female representation at 30 June of 32% at 30 June For FY20 35% (Telstra Total) and 40% (Executive Management) (Telstra Total) and 30% (Executive Management) Result – 30.1% (Telstra Total) and 27.8% (Executive Management) FY20 – Female representation at 30 June of 35% (Telstra Total) and 40% (Executive Management) (i) I dentified groups are female employees, Indigenous employees, culturally (ii) I ncludes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Corporation Limited and and linguistically diverse employees, employees with a disability and, gay, its wholly owned subsidiaries, excluding contractors and agency staff. It does lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) employees. not include staff in any other controlled entities within the Telstra Group. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 30 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Progress Telstra was named as a 2016 Employer of Representation of women in Telstra as at 30 June 2017 Choice for Gender Equality by the WGEA and Our focus on gender equality is ranked in the top 100 companies globally for diversity and inclusion in the Thomas Role Number Percentage This year female representation across Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned Reuters Index. subsidiaries decreased 0.5 percentage points. Board(i) 4 44.4% We are required by the Workplace Gender We saw increases in female representation Equality Act 2012 (WGEA) to report our in some Telstra business units, however a workforce gender profile as at 31 March Executive management*(ii) 67 27.8% number of exits due to structural changes each year. Our 2017 report was lodged with CEO 0 0.0% in parts of our business has resulted in the WGEA on 31 May 2017 and is available the overall Telstra total position remaining on our website. CEO-1 5 41.7% relatively flat throughout the year, ending at CEO-2 17 23.6% 30.1 per cent (9,384), a 0.5 percentage point To formally drive gender equality across decrease from our 30 June 2016 position of Telstra and ensure a standard of equality CEO-3 45 28.7% 30.6 per cent. across our recruitment process, in March 2017 we introduced a new recruitment Middle management*(iii) 2,920 27.9% We are committed to achieving gender shortlist gender equality procedure that equality at Telstra and have a broad range mandates a minimum female representation of policies, programs and engagement of 50 per cent on shortlists and interview Operational*(iv) 6,400 31.3% initiatives in place to help us achieve this lists for all roles (except some specified goal. Among our initiatives include our roles where a 25 per cent requirement applies Telstra Total* 9,384 30.1% CEO, Andrew Penn being an active member due to a known significant gender imbalance of the ‘Male Champions of Change’. This in the job market). Telstra Group Total** 10,018 29.7% has translated into commitments across the organisation as part of our ‘Men’s After three months in operation, we have Responsibility for Gender Equality’ initiative seen strong progress, including a 6.5 per that we launched in October 2016. cent increase in female representation in shortlists and a 5.7 per cent increase in * Includes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Notes: female commencements. Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, (i) N  umber and percentage relates to excluding contractors and agency staff. It does not non-executive Directors. include staff in any other controlled entities within the Telstra Group. (ii) E  xecutive management comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Bands A, B and C. ** Includes full time, part time and casual staff in controlled entities within the Telstra Group, excluding (iii) Middle management comprises persons holding roles contractors and agency staff. within Telstra designated as Bands 1 or 2, or equivalent. Information regarding the controlled entities in the (iv) O perational comprises persons holding roles within Telstra Group can be found on our website. Telstra designated as Bands 3 or 4, or equivalent. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 31 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Board diversity Gender pay equity Percentage of Fixed Remuneration For FY17 the Board’s measurable objective (FR) – Female to Male* Gender pay equity continues to be a key about Board diversity was that there would area of focus and we remain vigilant about be at least three women on the Board, how we administer and apply policy to avoid Level Comparison representing a female gender representation any bias in performance assessment and among non-executive Directors of at least remuneration decisions. We consistently work Executive management(i) 102% 30 per cent, with an aspiration to achieve towards identifying, targeting and reducing 40 per cent female representation among Middle management(ii) 96% any notable gender pay gaps through targeted non-executive Directors by 2020. As at 30 gender reporting and education to support Operational (iii) 88% June 2017, there were four female Directors managers in identifying and addressing on the Board (including the Chairman of gender pay equity issues. Overall % comparison 92% the Audit & Risk Committee), representing Jo, HR and Jaime Lee, IT. a female gender representation among The table below compares the average non-executive Directors of 44 per cent. salaries across three levels for our Australian * Includes full time and part time staff in Telstra based employee population (reflecting over Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, For FY18, the Board’s diversity objective 90 per cent of our overall population). When excluding casuals, contractors and agency staff. It does is that there will be at least four women we compare like for like roles, the gap is 2 not include staff in any other controlled entities within on the Board, representing a female gender per cent. However, the overall gap across the Telstra Group. Ratio calculated as base salary plus representation among non-executive the population is approximately 8 per cent, superannuation (female FR as a % of male FR) Directors of at least 40 per cent, recognising which reaffirms the importance of our focus Notes: that the level of gender diversity of the Board on increasing the representation of females (i) E  xecutive management comprises persons holding may be temporarily affected during periods across all levels of our workforce. roles within Telstra designated as Bands A, B and C. of Board renewal. CEO is excluded from Executive grouping on the basis The greater variance for roles at the Operational the role is held by a single person. Elijah, Telstra Customer Service Consultant nbn™. level is largely attributable to a significant (ii) M  iddle management comprises persons holding roles proportion of operational employees being within Telstra designated as Band 1 or 2, or equivalent. managed against fixed pay rates which are high (iii) O  perational comprises persons holding roles within compared to salaries of peers at the same level. Telstra designated as Bands 3 or 4, or equivalent. This is coupled with the fact that operational roles are predominantly filled by males. Telstra is also a formally accredited White Ribbon Workplace, recognising our work to help stop violence against women, and we are a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 32 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Employment pathways for Recognition of our work in diversity diverse candidates and inclusion To attract and retain more Indigenous Telstra is among the top employers employees to Telstra, we provided new for LGBT+ inclusion in the Australian mentoring and engagement opportunities Workplace Equality Index, a Silver for 15 new Indigenous employees and employer for LGBT+ employees in the interns, and created 25 new Indigenous Hong Kong LGBT+ Index, Distinguished traineeship and internship opportunities Performance as Best Employer and Best across many business units. These include Practices for LGBT Asian Employees our field-based traineeships, with nine in the 2017 Asia Society Best Employer trainees joining Telstra in this program, and Best Practices Award, and we due to begin working at Telstra in 2019. This were proud winners of the Big Business year, we also recruited five new Indigenous Category in the 2017 Australian graduates in disciplines such as Business, Multicultural Marketing Awards Commerce, Finance, Marketing and Human for our Place to Belong™ segmented Resources, representing 2.7 per cent of our Indigenous employment brand. total graduate intake. During FY17, we hired 16 new employees who identify as living with a disability, and this year we continued to be the Telstra employees marching for the first time at Midsumma’s Pride March in Melbourne. largest corporate provider of the Australian Network on Disability Stepping Into internship Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender As a supporter of marriage equality, we program, for university students with a and Intersex (LGBT+) inclusion continue to show our support of diversity, disability. We hosted 43 students in FY17, inclusion and equality, while recognising We want our people to bring their whole and respecting the right of the individual and two have secured ongoing work at Telstra. selves to work and to feel comfortable In our most recent graduate intake 3.3 per to hold their own view on this issue. In 2017 doing so. We have long shown our support we reaffirmed our support for the Equality cent of those selected identified as living for LGBT+ inclusion by supporting events like with a disability. Providing employment Campaign, a joint initiative of Australian Wear it Purple Day, International Day Against Marriage Equality and Australians for Equality. pathways for people living with disability Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia and is a key pillar of our Accessibility and the Midsumma queer arts and entertainment Inclusion Plan. festival. Within our business, this year we For more information about our Accessibility grew our LGBT+ employees and allies’ network and Inclusion Plan released in March 2017, to over 2,000 members, including 149 Executive please refer to Digital inclusion. Ally Champions for LGBT+ Inclusion. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 33 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Promoting health, safety and wellbeing Approach Progress Incident prevention Rehabilitating our people Throughout FY17 we made progress in Telstra continues to deliver an effective and The health and safety of our employees, Licenses, accreditations reducing HSE risk to our people, contractors holistic early intervention program that is contractors and the community is of and compliance and the public. We are vigilant in identifying individually tailored to support the recovery paramount importance to Telstra. Through Telstra is a Commonwealth Safety, any emerging HSE risks and explore innovative and return to work for ill or injured employees. our global health, safety and environment Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission ways to manage them. Examples of our Our Return to Work program successfully saw (HSE) management system, we embed the approved self-insurer licensee, and we are proactive, risk based approach to health 90 per cent of employees returning to work latest HSE strategies and processes in every subject to regulation by Comcare. and safety management include: on pre-injury duties. element of our operations, in order to either eliminate or minimise risks and drive early In 2016 Telstra complied with the prudential •o ur global HSE management system: We continue to provide tailored rehabilitation intervention in injury management. conditions of the licence and retained its on 1 July 2016 we launched an integrated and job seeking support for those current and Comcare self-insurance license at Tier 3 HSE management system that is consistent former employees out of work long-term due Our initiatives aim to build a high-performing status (the highest possible) in all three across our global operations and embedded to injury. In FY17, our Work Transition program HSE culture, where sharing insights and areas of prevention, claims management into operational practices helped improve quality of life and enabled learnings are the norm. We encourage all and rehabilitation. a return to employment for nine current and employees and contractors to openly report •s upporting employee health and wellness: former employees who had been away from HSE issues, incidents and hazards, and use We also retained our HSE accreditations and our Thrive workplace resilience program work longer than two years. data and analytics to help managers make certifications for our customers, including spans across our global operations. In sound decisions on corrective actions the Office of the Federal Safety Commissioner FY17 we initiated face-to-face and online and controls. accreditation for all Federal Government workshops globally, covering topics such contracts, such as the NBN. Based on our as mindfulness, culture, self and team Established HSE governance forums help improved performance, Telstra was ranked leadership and mental wellness manage progress against our HSE strategy, monitoring our performance through regular at ‘low risk’ and was accredited for another •d river and vehicle safety: Telstra is a reporting to the Board, Audit and Risk six years. Our HSE management system is founding member of the National Road Committee, executive leadership team certified to AS/NZS4801 and ISO 14001: Safety Partnership Program in Australia. and senior managers. 2015 and we are an accredited Workplace Our initiatives help improve driver behaviour Rehabilitation Provider. and vehicle safety through awareness and training programs, in-vehicle monitoring, In 2016 Telstra was runner-up for the data analytics and supporting our people leaders to address ‘at risk’ driving behaviour Proactive Employer Award at Comcare’s •w orking at height: in FY17, we re-trained Work Health and Safety Awards. technicians on harnesses and pole-top rescue, implemented an inspection schedule and ladders with stabilizers for our field technicians, and updated emergency planning processes and documentation for communication towers, including remote mobile network towers. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 34 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Key health and safety Employee injury performance Lost time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)(i) Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR)(ii) performance indicators by calender year Both primary prevention – Telstra’s Same day reporting risk-based approach to health and safety FY16 7.5 Same day incident and injury reporting is management, and secondary prevention 2014 1.69 an essential metric for addressing risks and – Telstra’s Early Intervention InjuryAssist FY17 8.1 making sure our people receive timely care. Program initiatives have contributed to the 2015 0.89 Our focus on building a strong reporting culture decline in Workers Compensation claims. across Telstra continues to deliver promising In FY17 we accepted 156 new claims1, 2016 0.84 results with our same day reporting rate compared to 177 claims in FY16. This year we have introduced Total Recordable increasing to 82 per cent for FY17 compared For more information on our health and Telstra measures Lost Time Injury Frequency Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) as a key to 77 per cent in FY16. This improved result safety performance indicators, please Rate (LTIFR) as the reported number of reporting metric. TRIFR is the reported was due to a focussed effort on HSE leadership see our reporting website. accepted workers’ compensation claims number of all work-related injury or disease across the Telstra Group with this key metric for work-related injury or disease that incur that require medical treatment greater than being driven through the organisation as part lost time, for each million hours worked. first aid per million hours worked. Currently of the HSE Improvement Planning process. As claims are often not determined for some the metric does not include contractor Bolstering this effort was a separate time after the initial injury, the reported incidents or incidents internationally, but programme, ‘HSE Assist’ which provided Lost Time Injuries (LTI) and LTIFR for FY16 work is underway to review how this may improved mobility functionality to our hazard, (and prior years) did not include those injuries be measured for inclusion in future reporting. incident and injury reporting software making that occurred within the reporting period To support this new measure for Telstra, we it easier for employees to report via any but had not yet had an accepted worker’s are working with business units to determine mobile or tablet device from June 2016. compensation claim. the right TRIFR targets for our FY18 HSE improvement plans. Given that our annual reporting is released before workers’ compensation claims may be finalised we have changed our measure to report by calendar year. For comparison purposes we have recalculated LTIFR for the past three calendar years. Our LTIFR reduced between calendar 2015 and 2016 by 5.6 per cent. 1 New claims include only accepted workers (i) LTIFR is the reported number of accepted workers’ (ii) T  RIFR is the reported number of all work-related compensation claims within the reporting period. compensation claims for work-related injury or injury or disease that require medical treatment disease that incur lost time for each million hours greater than first aid for each million hours worked. worked. Includes full-time, part-time and casual Includes full time, part time and casual staff in staff in Telstra Corporation Limited, excluding Telstra Corporation Limited, excluding subsidiaries, subsidiaries, contractors and agency staff. contractors and agency staff. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 35 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Employment and workplace relations Approach In June 2017 we announced proposed Engaging with the unions organisational restructures and workforce In Australia, we regularly engage with the As the strategic direction of our business changes across a number of teams within Community and Public Sector Union (CPSU), changes, we pride ourselves in maintaining Telstra Corporation. This was in response to the Communications, Electrical and Plumbing consistently high standards in the way we the disruption we are facing in our operating Union of Australia (CEPU) and Professionals manage our workforce and treat employees environment combined with increasing Australia (APESMA). Our aim is to maintain with respect and dignity. Our employees competitive pressures. The proposed changes open and constructive relationships with the comprise a large and diverse mix of people, would ultimately result in up to 1,400 roles no representatives of these unions. We consult engaged in a vast array of roles, working longer being required over the next six months. with our unions before we implement any hours, and contractual arrangements. As Telstra will consult with our employees and significant changes to the way we work. This business evolves, we rely on our robust their representatives (typically the union) on year, we conducted more than 35 formal union enterprise agreement, respectful relationships changes which have a demonstrable impact consultation meetings. with the unions, and practical resolution on our workforce before making a final decision channels to help secure the best future for to proceed. Employment Instruments each of our employees. Our employees have the right to be treated In Australia, Telstra has in place a single When structural changes are required, our aim fairly and to understand the reasons for enterprise agreement covering our workforce Roxanne from Security Operations. is to mitigate any adverse effects on employees decisions and actions that impact their the Telstra Enterprise Agreement 2015-2018 by making all reasonable efforts to appoint employment. In cases where there is (EA). The EA covers approximately 21,000 affected individuals to other suitable roles disagreement on a decision impacting an Telstra Corporation employees. The percentage within Telstra. When this is not possible, we employee’s employment, Telstra has various of employees employed under the EA provide a comprehensive redeployment and issue resolution options that employees has increased from 68 to 73 per cent over career transition program for employees can access, including an internal resolution the last year, reflecting our best practice whose roles will be affected by redundancy policy and process. provisions such as 16 weeks paid maternity leave, and All Roles Flex. In total, 27 per Progress In addition, all employees and their families cent of employees in Telstra Corporation have access to professional support are employed on individual contracts or Key changes within our workforce services, funded by Telstra, through our individual statutory agreements. As at June 30 2017, Telstra Group’s total Work Life Coaching (formerly the Employee Assistance Program). For more insight into employment at Telstra, workforce was 34,598 (full-time equivalent)1, a detailed breakdown of is available on our a decrease of 3.5 per cent, or 1,255 roles, reporting website. compared to last year. While 87 per cent of our workforce is Australian based, we employ people across 20 countries as the Telstra Group continues to focus on 1 Telstra Group total includes Telstra Corporation and controlled entity full time employees and equivalents, establishing an international presence and contractors and staff employed through agency expanding our global footprint. arrangements in Australia and internationally. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 36 Digital futures Highlights Launched the Helped more than Reached more than one million 63,000 Australian vulnerable customers to people through our digital Digital Everyone connected stay connected literacy programs Digital technologies and high-speed broadband are making Inclusion Index lives simpler and quicker, while also unlocking amazing opportunities. Yet there remain thousands of people who risk missing out on the education, health, social and financial benefits that come with the online world. At Telstra, we want everyone in Australia – and beyond – to Launched our first Provided Launched a enjoy the benefits of being connected. Through our digital inclusion programs, we’re focused on supporting those Accessibility $157 million new product in our community most at risk of digital exclusion. This includes people with disability, older Australians, remote and Inclusion of value through our social and community investment programs offering Indigenous communities, those on low incomes, and people who are unemployed or homeless, as well as communities Plan for vulnerable and disadvantaged Australians in times of natural disasters. Our approach is to integrate digital inclusion into our core business operations and to partner with governments and community organisations to achieve genuine reach and scale. Sustainability 2020 Target Our strategic priorities are focussed around affordability, Provide tailored support, products and services to enable accessibility and ability. This means keeping people connected, especially when they’re doing it tough; ensuring 1.5 million people to connect or thrive online by 2020 our products, services and information are accessible and easy to use; and, building the digital skills and confidence of our vulnerable customers and communities. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Digital inclusion Approach Australian Digital Inclusion Index We are partnering with RMIT University, the Centre for Social Impact Digital inclusion is based on the premise that at Swinburne University, and Roy Morgan Research to produce the everyone should be able to make full use of Australian Digital Inclusion Index. We have published two reports digital technologies – to manage their health to date, in 2016 and 2017. The Index provides important insights on and wellbeing, access education and public the barriers to digital inclusion across three areas accessibility, services, organise their finances, and connect affordability and digital ability and is designed as an information with family, friends and the world beyond. tool to help policy-makers, businesses and community organisations Yet in 2017, some three million Australians take action on digital exclusion. are still not online – and with the increasing number of services going digital, the depth Using data from 2014-2017, the Index shows that overall digital of exclusion for those not connected is inclusion in Australia is improving, and that Australians are continuing to grow. spending more time – and doing more online. However it also shows that the gaps between digitally included and excluded We meet regularly with key consumer Australians are substantial and in some cases widening. organisations in Australia to help ensure Those with low levels of income, education and employment our digital inclusion programs meet are significantly less digitally included. community needs. This includes regular meetings with the Australian Communications In 2017, the Australian Digital Inclusion Index also found that over Consumer Action Network (ACCAN), quarterly the past four years: meetings with the Low Income Measures Assessment Committee (LIMAC), and a • nationally, digital access has improved steadily Learning digital skills through inDigiMOB. bi-annual CEO Consumer Roundtable, which • affordability remains a challenge for some excluded groups, provides a regular forum for peak consumer though value has improved organisations to meet with our CEO and • digital ability remains an area for further improvement senior leaders. • Indigenous Australians, people with disabilities, and Australians aged over 65 score below the national average • mobile-only users are less digitally included, linked closely to socio-economic factors • geographical disparities exist across Australia, with some areas showing higher digital inclusion than others. For more information, refer to the Digital Inclusion Index website. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 38 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Progress Ask Izzy Telstra Safe Connections® Ask Izzy is a mobile website that supports In partnership with Women’s Services Low income customers people who are homeless or at risk of Network (WESNET), Telstra was awarded We work with partners across the government becoming homeless by providing details an Australian Crime and Violence Award and community sector to develop and deliver of more than 350,000 support services for our Safe Connections Program. a wide range of digital inclusion programs to nationwide. This includes location-specific assist people on low incomes. We regularly Over three years, the program will provide information on key areas such as housing, review our approach to identify groups up to 20,000 smartphones and $30 food, health, finding work, access to most in need, changing technologies and pre-paid starter kits and technology safety technology (e.g. Wi-Fi, charging locations) consumer preferences. information to women experiencing family and other facilities (e.g. toilets, libraries etc.). violence. Telstra Safe Connections aims to Through our largest digital inclusion program, About 80 per cent of homeless people have empower women by providing access to Access for Everyone, which is focused on a smartphone but don’t always have access safe and secure communications, as well affordability, we help people on low incomes to credit or have limited data to search for as the tools and training to help them stay Ask Izzy ambassador Pete Burns working with or facing financial hardship to stay connected. the services they need. Telstra is supporting safely connected with friends and family at-risk youth. Since its inception in 2002, we’ve provided those in need by providing unmetered access when they need it most. benefits to the value of more than $2 billion. We provided home phone line rental relief to the Ask Izzy website for anyone with a We work with more than 2,000 community In FY17, Telstra partnered with WESNET for about 46,000 households and distributed mobile on the Telstra mobile network. We hope organisations across Australia that assist to deliver the inaugural Technology Safety around 51,000 pre-paid calling cards that providing free access to Ask Izzy on our people in crisis to deliver these programs. Summit, which brought together more (including Phonecards) and mobile phone extensive regional and metropolitan network than 100 front line family violence workers recharge cards. We also provided rebates will encourage more people to seek help. In FY17, our Access for Everyone low income to build awareness of the safe use of on Telstra bills for around 1,780 customers package provided benefits totalling $87 technology in family violence situations. million, a reduction of 18 per cent compared each month seeking emergency relief. Homelessness is a to FY16 ($107 million), largely reflecting a lower take-up of our pensioner discount We continue to provide access to important national crisis lines so that the cost of calling growing and complex on fixed-line home phone services as more customers move to bundles. Around 760,000 is not a barrier to seeking help. In addition to Lifeline, SES, Family Drug Support and issue across Australia, pensioners received a discount this year to the value of $69 million, which was about the Mensline Australia, this year we added beyondblue and Suicide Call Back Service which often involves same number of customers as in FY16. to our program, which provides free calling more than just a lack from Telstra mobile phones to essential community support services. of housing. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 39 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Supporting people living with disability Our Accessibility and Inclusion Plan has three In FY17, the Telecommunications Industry In 1996, Telstra was one of the first corporates key pillars: Ombudsman (TIO) received seven customer in Australia to introduce a Disability Action complaints with direct reference to disability • improve customer experience: this is about Plan. Fast forward 20 years and six Disability access or equipment. Six of the seven related intimately understanding the needs of our Action Plans, in FY17 we are proud to to impaired decision making due to disability customers. We want to make sure that our have developed our first Accessibility or psycho-social incapacity, a complex issue premises, products, services and information and Inclusion Plan. that we intend to explore further through are accessible, easy to use and meet the research in FY18. The plan shifts our focus from disability to needs of our diverse customer base accessibility and aims to strengthen our •c  reate a fully inclusive workforce: at This year, we received three new complaints commitment to removing barriers to access. its heart, this is about culture. We know from the Australian Human Rights Commission Our ambition is to embed accessibility and our people are our most powerful tool in claiming disability discrimination. One Gallia the guide dog at the Accessibility and inclusion in everything we do, to raise the building inclusion complaint was substantiated and addressed Inclusion Plan launch. bar on customer experience, and to use our during the year, and is now awaiting formal • i nnovate for the future: we will use our Overall, while the gap between country and technology expertise to create new products closure. One complaint was withdrawn by the skills and capabilities as a leading innovator metropolitan areas has narrowed slightly and services. customer and the third was unsubstantiated to create accessible new technology, over the past three years, this is not reflected and closed. The three pending complaints products and services that empower across all states and territories. While South from last year have also been formally closed. everyone to fully participate. Australia, Western Australia and Queensland Regional and remote communities narrowed the gap between capital city and We continue to provide support to our country residents, the gap widened in Victoria, customers with disability to access The Australian Digital Inclusion Index 2017 New South Wales and Tasmania. telecommunications. This year, our Disability demonstrates that geography plays a role Enquiry Hotline took more than 18,000 calls in the uneven distribution of digital inclusion In order to meet the challenges and needs and processed more than 4,000 successful in Australia, revealing lower inclusion levels of regional, rural and remote communities, applications for products as part of our in rural compared with urban areas. This we work to ensure that our digital capability Disability Equipment Program, including ‘capital-country’ gap is evident across all programs include a focus on regional areas, a new Telstra Easy Control cordless phone. three areas of digital inclusion researched and our Access for Everyone programs are We continue to see a decline in the provision in the Index – access, affordability and available to assist people on a low income of TTYs (Tele-Typewriters for deaf and speech digital ability. Although digital inclusion with access. We have begun investing more impaired customers), supplying 32 in FY17 has improved overall in each of these than $1.5 billion over three years in addition compared to 98 in FY16. Around 113,000 areas, it is not improving at the same to our business-as-usual investment to Brent Phillips from Vicdeaf and Cynthia Whelan, Group calls were made to our Directory Assistance pace in regional areas as it is in cities. transform the next generation of networks, Executive New Businesses at the Accessibility and Helpline by customers who are not able to improve network resilience, enhance mobile Inclusion Plan launch. use printed or online telephone directories. differentiation including preparation for 5G, and expand our fixed network services. For more information on our progress against this commitment, please refer to Networks. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 40 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Older Australians Sessions have been held at local community Our RAP also includes our commitment Improving digital capability Being confident and literate with technology groups, retirement homes and Telstra stores to help build digital capability in remote This year, our digital literacy portfolio, is an essential skill in the digital age. Our across Australia. This year the program Indigenous communities. In FY17 we piloted which consists of our Tech Savvy Seniors Tech Savvy Seniors program helps build provided coaching sessions for 895 and evaluated inDigiMOB, a community program, Telstra Digital Ambassadors and skills and confidence, increase digital older Australians. digital capability program, in Arlparra our Cyber Safety Awareness information inclusion, reduce social isolation, improve and four Alice Springs town camps in the (available on our website), reached For more information on Tech Savvy Seniors, access to government services, and improve Northern Territory. More than 550 community more than 63,000 people. This included refer to our website. resilience to online fraud and financial abuse. members benefited from the program, which face-to-face training as well as the facilitated exposure to technology and skills use of instructional videos and guides In the past year, our Tech Savvy Seniors development through on-the-ground partner available from our Tech Savvy Seniors programs, delivered in partnership with state organisations. inDigiMOB will continue in the and Cyber Safety websites. governments in New South Wales, Victoria pilot sites and expand to an additional eight and Queensland, provided face-to-face digital communities by the end of 2017. To access our free cyber safety materials, literacy training for more than 35,000 older visit our website. Australians in local libraries and community This year we also published the Cyber Safety colleges across each state. Training is in Remote Aboriginal Communities and Towns delivered in English as well as Arabic, research report, highlighting the unique cyber Cantonese, Dari, Greek, Hindi, Italian, safety issues facing many remote Indigenous Mandarin, Tagalog, Vietnamese, Macedonian communities. Researchers from Swinburne and Croatian. Along with face-to-face training, University found problems arising as a result we provided instructional digital literacy of particular practices, including the high level videos and training guides on our website. of device sharing among kin. The second year Indigenous communities of this research initiative will explore how to We have a strong focus on improving the Our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) sets out address these issues, and further understand digital literacy skills of seniors in regional our commitment to support reconciliation and the socio-cultural factors underpinning and remote areas, where seniors are at greater create social, economic and cultural change. mobile/online related conflict. risk of social isolation, and this year we visited A key commitment in our RAP is a $30 million 10 regional communities in NSW with our Tech infrastructure co-investment agreement with Savvy Seniors Regional Roadshow. the Northern Territory Government to expand Telstra Digital Ambassadors is an employee telecommunications infrastructure to remote volunteering program that delivers simple communities. This year we provided mobile coaching in small groups for seniors who and fixed broadband coverage to Titjikala, a have minimal or no digital literacy skills. remote community of around 200 people 120 These sessions help people learn how kilometres south of Alice Springs; with Timber to communicate electronically with family Creek and Ali Curung receiving fixed broadband and friends, pay bills and shop online. to complement existing mobile services. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 41 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Community investment Approach The Telstra Kids Digital Futures program is Social and community investment a new way that Telstra Kids can help young Millions of dollars From promoting digital inclusion through our Australians thrive in their digital world. social and community investment programs, In FY17 we introduced a curated digital to keeping people connected in times of employee offer designed to help kids be FY15 213.5 disaster, our community investments help great citizens, explorers and change agents. ensure that everyone has access to the In FY18, every Telstra Kids grants round will FY16 175.4 benefits digital technology can bring. We include a different digital project that our also encourage our people to get involved employees can take to their local metro, FY17 157.4 in their communities and the issues that regional, rural and remote communities. matter to them. The first round in 2017 gave our people the We know how important our network is for opportunity to take a new anti-cyberbullying Social and community Social and community investment the community especially in times of disaster. program, designed for year 7 to 9 students, investment by focus(i) by form of contribution We work extensively to prepare for severe to their local high schools. Millions of dollars Millions of dollars weather seasons, our priorities being Community investment data protecting and maintaining our infrastructure, assisting emergency and essential services The total value of our social and community organisations with their telecommunications investment programs, including contributions requirements, and restoring services to from Telstra, employees and the Telstra our customers. Foundation® equalled $157.4 million in FY17. Our focus for these programs has Community grants Telstra Kids been on digital inclusion initiatives. For We encourage our people to support their more information about these initiatives local communities through Telstra Kids refer to Digital inclusion and Tech for (formerly Telstra Kids Fund). Collectively, good. For details of our social and our employees can apply for up to $1 million community investments, please refer in grants each year to fund the little things to our reporting website. that make a big difference to kids’ lives. Since 2002, Telstra Kids has contributed more than $9.8 million to some 8,000 projects 135.8 Everyone Connected 110.7 Revenue foregone that connect kids to their local community. 4.9 Employee volunteering and giving 19.7 Cash That’s more than one project a day, every single day, for over a decade. 16.2 Sponsorship 6.9 In-kind 0.5 Disaster relief 1.6 Time 11.1 Management costs (i) Management costs associated with each program 7.4 Leverage are included in the amounts invested. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 42 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Disaster relief and recovery (UAVs) to provide rapid assessments of our Assisting communities affected Cyclone Debbie Following a flood, cyclone or bushfire, infrastructure as well as to support emergency by Australian natural disasters Tropical Cyclone Debbie left a path our technicians are usually the first ones services. This year, we have been working with of destruction across many towns and the Local Government Infrastructure Services This year over 170,000 customers were in an area once it has been declared safe impacted by disasters in Australia. We communities in Queensland and New by emergency services. Where necessary, in Queensland to trial the use of UAVs for South Wales in April 2017, and damaged emergency management, where the UAVs fly received 10,240 calls to register for disaster we provide temporary mobile base stations relief packages, and provided assistance a lot of Telstra infrastructure along and repeaters to boost coverage for greater distances beyond visual line of sight, the way. We experienced over 46,000 with navigation supported by Telstra’s 4G packages worth over $180,000 for customers emergency service operators. Satellite affected by major natural disasters, including individual faults as a result of the Cells on Wheels, or SatCOWs, provide mobile network. The trial, which was the first cyclone and subsequent flooding. We of its kind in Australia, was a success with the floods in Queensland and northern NSW, satellite-assisted mobile coverage in remote the black outs in South Australia, floods and also had damage to 200 main cables, areas, while trailer-mounted repeaters can further trials set to integrate UAVs into 200 pillars and 150 distribution cables. emergency management operations. fire in western NSW, the Carwoola NSW fire pick up the signal from the nearest Telstra and fires in the greater Perth district. In addition to the field technicians we mobile base station and repeat it to improve already have in the affected areas, we reception in a specific location. mobilised more technicians from parts Along with technical support, we provide of Queensland that weren’t affected telecommunications services such as by the cyclone. We also brought in more temporary internet and loan handsets to resources from other parts of the country evacuation centres. We support affected to help with our recovery efforts. residential and small business customers Telstra offered an assistance package through relief assistance packages. This for our residential and small business includes free call diversions, free calls from customers affected by the cyclone. The payphones, and in some cases, the distribution package included a range of measures of free devices with prepaid credit. relating to both fixed services and Depending on our access to affected areas, Bigpond® services such as free call we set up temporary Telstra shops to support diversion, one-off credits, and holding customers. We provide emergency response of numbers and email addresses. leave for our people who volunteer with We also gave out a series of Telstra emergency services, and employees in Disaster Recovery grants totalling disaster-affected areas can use their over $100,000 to assist community annual volunteer day to support their organisations, non-profits and grass local communities in clean-up efforts. roots sporting clubs impacted by We have also been working to use technology the disaster. during times of disaster, including the use of drones or unmanned aerial vehicles Taken near Broombee NSW, during times of crisis, drones can provide faster inspections of our infrastructure so that we can keep communities connected when they need it most. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 43 Digital futures Highlights Covering more than Deployed more than Introduced a world-first 2.4 million 150 mobile ‘Always On’ square kilometres our 3G and base stations through the service guarantee, to assure 4G mobile network combined Mobile Black Spots Program service availability across the is able to reach 99.4 per cent busy Hong Kong, Singapore of the Australian population and Japan triangle Networks The digital world is transforming the way we live our lives. The benefits of being online are immense – we are empowered to learn in new ways, to communicate more freely, to take greater control of our health, finances and routines. Having access to a reliable network delivers these benefits across demographic boundaries, underpins economic growth, and provides tremendous opportunities Switched on our 30% to solve social and environmental challenges. millionth of total intra-Asian data traffic Over the next five years, we anticipate that our network Telstra Air® hotspot carried on our submarine cables traffic will grow by more than 500 per cent as video, virtual reality, artificial intelligence, connected machines, and even drone technologies place unprecedented demands on our network. In November 2016, we announced a major capital expenditure Sustainability 2020 target program to consolidate our leadership position in Australia by Extend 4G coverage towards 99.4 per cent of the Australian population investing in the next generation of mobile and fixed network services, expanding coverage and resilience, digitising all elements of our business, and making major improvements across our customer experience. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Networks Building the networks of the future Approach Telstra Air® is Australia’s largest Wi-Fi network. The opportunities that new technologies bring hinge on access to fast, reliable and costIn June, we switched on our millionth Telstra Air effective data networks. Telstra’s networks continue to be among the best in the world, hotspot in Mildura, Victoria. and provide us with significant strategic differentiation. Over the three years from Increasing mobile coverage We worked with the Barcoo and Diamantina FY17-FY19, we will consolidate this advantage Our 4G mobile network is a world leader, Shires, the Queensland Government and the by investing more than $1.5 billion in our developed through years of research and Federal Government to deliver a fibre link networks in addition to our standard annual investment. Covering more than 1.4 million and new mobile bases to Birdsville, Jundah, capital expenditure, delivering increased square kilometres of landmass, our 4G Stonehenge, Windorah and Bedourie, as well capacity and coverage, and unlocking the mobile network now covers 99 per cent as joint funding to deliver fibre and mobile benefits that new technologies bring. of the Australian population. services in Aurukun – helping connect some New investments will go towards building the Progress of Australia’s most remote communities. Connectivity is vital to regional, rural and next generation of networks, with a focus on Continuing to invest in our network remote communities and we are acutely Another program delivering on our commitment maintaining our differentiated mobile service, Telstra is committed to building a new kind of aware of the challenges facing communities to regional and remote communities is the including preparation for 5G, and making network and we continue to make significant living with limited mobile network access. rollout of the Mobile Black Spot Program strategic investments in our fixed network investments to create differentiation, build Telstra has consistently weighted network (MBSP) co-funded by Federal, State and services. Internationally, we are focused capability for the future and strengthen our investments towards extending mobile Local governments. Through MBSP we are on growing our enterprise services across network leadership. To do this, we have begun coverage. Over the past 10 years,15 per cent deploying 577 new 3G/4G base stations to the Asia-Pacific region and exploring future investing more than $1.5 billion over three of investment in our mobile network has gone improve mobile coverage for communities growth opportunities in Asia, where Telstra’s years in addition to our business-as-usual to provide services to the most remote two across Australia. We have now added up subsea cables already support the continent’s investment to transform the next generation of per cent of the Australian population. to 40,000 square kilometres of new and single largest data network. networks, improve network resilience, enhance improved mobile coverage, so that thousands We are the first carrier in Australia to provide of Australians who previously had little to mobile differentiation including preparation voice calling via 4G-only small cells and for 5G, and expand our fixed network services. no mobile reception can now access Telstra’s in November 2016 we also launched Wi-Fi high speed mobile coverage. We have also invested significantly in Calling (VoWiFi), which seamlessly transfers accelerating the digitisation of our business, calls between Telstra’s 4G network and an and making other improvements to our accessible Wi-Fi connection, including Telstra customer experience. Air hotspots. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 45 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Networks New technology International investment Saying goodbye to 2G It is expected that 5G will enhance existing We operate one of the largest international When our 2G mobile network service was 4G services with additional capacity, higher networks in Asia, carrying around 30 per cent launched in 1993, making a mobile call speeds, and lower latency (delay time). It will of total intra-Asian traffic on our submarine was a novelty. Since then our customers also provide a platform for massive increases cables, with the largest integrated data centre made around 87 billion phone calls and in video use and inter-connectedness footprint in the region and Points of Presence sent billions more text messages on the on unprecedented scales across millions in all major markets. 2G network. But times have changed and of connected devices such as water and with 2G mobile traffic accounting for less We own and operate the largest subsea electricity meters, sensors in wearable than 1 per cent of our total mobile network network in the Asia Pacific region, and we’re devices, in-car and traffic management traffic, we formally closed our 2G network continuing to invest to meet increasing systems and in-home appliances. on 1 December, 2016. We worked with demand for connectivity. This has included This year, we conducted 5G radio testing at entering into an agreement with AARNet, customers to migrate their 2G services Ericsson’s 5G experience centre, with lab Google INC, Indosat Ooredoo, Singtel and prior to the network closure, and by tests delivering download speeds of greater SubPartners to build a new international upgrading to a 3G or 4G service customers than 20Gbps. Following that, we played host subsea cable to connect Singapore, Indonesia instantly increased the number of places to Ericsson’s 5G test bed, enabling Telstra to and Australia. where they could use their mobile phone. conduct the first trial of 5G in Australia at our We also introduced world-first assured Global Operations Centre in Clayton, Victoria. availability across the busy Hong Kong, While major deployment of 5G is not expected Singapore and Japan triangle. This ‘Always until 2020, we are well advanced in our 5G On’ service guarantee utilises the unmatched network trials. We are also contributing to scale and diversity of our network to guarantee the development of international 5G industry connectivity even in the event of a cable cut standards, to make sure that the upcoming or damage due to a natural disaster. technologies are suited to our expansive rural As we offer more services around the world, we environments in the 5G channel modelling are diversifying our operations so that we now to provide the best possible experience for have dedicated customer sales and support our customers. teams in the United States, England, Hong We will deploy the first 5G trial on Telstra’s Kong, India, China and Singapore. We also use mobile network on the Gold Coast in 2018. mature customer service markets, like the Planning for this trial continues and we’re Philippines, to give us scale to support growth excited to be testing new 5G technologies in our Australian domestic business and the and applications. flexibility to improve the services we provide. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 46 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Networks Building network resilience The right call on mobile roaming The Australian Competition and Consumer In response to network interruptions we Commission (ACCC) announced in 2016 that experienced in the second half of FY16, it would investigate whether to regulate we embarked on expanding our network roaming – which would have forced us to resiliency program. The program is designed give competitors access to Telstra’s entire to reduce the likelihood of future outages Australian mobile network. through increasing redundancy in our nodes (connection points), increasing core network In its draft decision on 5 May 2017, the capacity, implementing new procedures for ACCC proposed to not declare a wholesale key network element restarts, and improving domestic mobile roaming service. resilience in our international connectivity. We believe confirmation of this draft In FY17 we made good progress in this twodecision would be the right decision for year program, with our immediate focus the people, businesses and communities being to boost our customer experience and of regional Australia because it would safeguard the stability of the network. We ensure the industry still has the incentives strive to ensure that network incidents don’t to invest. We encourage others in the impact our customers. The program will industry to follow Telstra’s lead and reduce the number of service disruptions put forward serious investment plans and enable faster recovery times by: to deliver the kind of future regional Australia deserves. • simplifying our network architecture • increasing redundancy in equipment We’ve invested significantly in our regional and paths network and customers choose Telstra because we have Australia’s leading mobile • boosting core capacity and mass network. Regulated roaming would take re-registration capability and away this competitive advantage and • accelerating the renewal of network remove the incentive that we – and other equipment that is nearing end of life. carriers – have to keep investing to expand For more information on our networks, and improve our networks. please refer to the Strategy and Performance Sheep and cattle farmer Anthony Close in Culla, Victoria. section of the 2017 Annual Report. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 47 Digital futures Highlights Committed more than eSmart Libraries program 3,126 $6 million now rolled out in to the Telstra Foundation® 67% community focused organisations enabled to connect with learning Tech for good to support community programs of public libraries opportunities in digital citizenship, and partnerships across Australia STEAM and digital making Digital technologies hold the key to solving or enabling solutions to many of society’s challenges. From making our lives more convenient and comfortable, to bringing global lessons into rural classrooms, long-distance disease diagnoses and drones that help farmers monitor their fields, smart technologies are helping millions of ordinary people do more things, more quickly, Over the past four years Launched Launched our in ever more remote locations. Telstra start-up accelerator muru-D® has accelerated Telstra Smart Cloud Calculator At Telstra, we want technology to benefit society and the planet. Our ‘tech for good’ portfolio embraces a 77 start-ups Home® Tool broad spectrum of technology enabling solutions – to enable business to estimate carbon savings when switching from start-up incubation and early-stage investment, to the cloud to the identification of practical solutions with industry partners, and the development of new products and services that are closely aligned with our core assets. And we are continuously looking ahead – recognising that true innovation requires encouragement for a Sustainability 2020 Target future generation of innovators and problem solvers, Invest $18 million over three years in Telstra Foundation who have the skills and support to navigate the online world confidently and safely. funded initiatives designed to support young people to thrive in a digital world Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Social and environmental innovation Approach Progress Telstra accounted for 18 per cent The rate of change in technology is accelerating, presenting opportunities Nurturing innovation of the top 50 ASX-driven innovation The unprecedented growth of the connected, to create new innovative products, services and differentiating customer experiences. digital world presents great opportunities activity in Australia. for those that embrace technology to We work with industry partners, start-ups create new innovative products, services and non-profits to deliver practical solutions and differentiating customer experiences. across Australia and around the world. We have created an innovation ecoTelstra’s investments in cloud storage, the system at Telstra that includes facilitating Internet of Things (IoT), and applications give ‘innovation challenges’, our muru-D® us new tools for creating a more sustainable start-up accelerator program and our environment, promising major dividends Gurrowa Innovation Lab Telstra’s flagship in energy efficiency and greenhouse gas purpose built co-innovation centre. reductions. While there is great potential across the economy, we see the agriculture In FY17, we launched Telstra Labs® – a single sector as one where technologies have the identity that brings together our innovation and potential to both significantly reduce carbon tech capability. It’s a unique environment that emissions and save Australian farmers allows for rapid experimentation, validation millions of dollars. and the implementation of new ideas within Telstra and with our partners and customers. Through the Telstra Foundation®, we’re Within Gurrowa, we now have Australia’s supporting inspiring non-profit organisations first publicly-accessible GSMA Open IoT Lab, that are transforming the lives of vulnerable opening up our networks and infrastructure young people. This year we invested in digital expertise and resources to burgeoning learning experiences in schools, public start-ups. The IoT lab aims to provide libraries and remote Indigenous communities innovators with space where they can as well as accessible communications create, test and prototype IoT solutions technologies to support the deafblind under controlled radio conditions. community, e-health tools for clinicians working in youth mental health, and robotics Telstra topped a new corporate innovation and wearable technology for children living index that ranks the top 50 ASX listed with cerebral palsy. companies by their investments in corporate ventures, accelerators, incubators, internal innovation labs, co-working spaces and Young people meet and interact with NAO the robot at a Telstra Kids Digital Futures workshop in regional Victoria. start-ups. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 49 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good High-tech agriculture In FY17, Telstra released the white paper such as our University Stream Winner – The sky-high tech set to revolutionise One sector with considerable potential for Regional Australia’s Technology Future, which Team CQU who produced a modular the agriculture industry innovation in new technology in Australia examines the opportunities that innovation fertigation control solution that attaches and new technology may bring to regional to irrigation systems and allows farmers to muru-D® #SYD4 start-up FluroSat is agriculture. ICT-enabled solutions such is building tech that will help farmers as sensor-based field equipment, data communities across Australia. better control the proportions of nutrients distributed to their crops. From the IoT to increase their crop yields, and could analytics, big data and traceability and The 2017 Telstra Innovation Challenge, also save the Australian agriculture industry tracking systems, can increase yields and drone technology, digital technologies offering gave teams across Australia the challenge millions of dollars in revenue. productivity and reduce waste. Other benefits new ways to monitor and collect data will help to design, build and code an innovative IoT are environmental – smart agriculture farmers make smart decisions and reduce or Using multi and hyper-spectral cameras prototype solution to help the agriculture solutions can lead to a considerable fall in eliminate circumstances which can adversely mounted on drones and satellites, they industry. Forty teams across Australia built agriculture-generated carbon emissions. impact profits and livelihoods. are able to look at crop health and identify and pitched innovative and high-quality ideas, issues that may be impacting the fields. This allows them to see problems with crops (e.g. if a crop is water or nutrient deficient, or if part of a field needs a chemical applied to it to extinguish a disease outbreak) before a farmer on the ground is able to, and recommend precision fixes. FluroSat co-founder and CEO Anastasia Volkova, is focusing on putting actionable data into the hands of the people who need it – the agronomists and farmers making daily decisions about crop management. The FluroSat team takes the info from the drones and satellites, processes that data and delivers actionable data on the spot. Early projections show that the tech has the potential to save Australia’s farming industry hundreds of millions of dollars through higher crop yields and savings on water, fertilisers and pesticides. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 50 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Connecting to a low-carbon future With 10 million people in Australia Through our Environmental Customer Value commuting every day, and nearly 10 Proposition, we focus on helping customers per cent of workers spending 10 hours transition to a low carbon future through or more per week commuting by car, it the use of Information Communications makes sense for the home to become the Technology (ICT). A key element of our new office. Cloud-based communication approach is to help our enterprise customers and collaboration can alleviate productivity identify opportunities to reduce their carbon drains, and improve workplace flexibility emissions and electricity costs. by enabling employees to work remotely just as effectively as if they were in the office. One of these opportunities is through cloud With a rise in remote working, cloud is also technology. The cloud is transforming ICT. removing cars from the road, reducing Simple to procure and manage, it’s helping congestion and carbon emissions. businesses realise the cost and efficiency gains that come from moving their data and To help enterprise and small businesses workloads fully off their own premises. Cloud considering their move to the cloud, Telstra also offers businesses the ability to innovate has created our Cloud Calculator Tool as and move fast for competitive advantage and a part of our Connecting with the Cloud manage security. whitepaper released in June 2017. Telstra commissioned independent research to By adopting cloud computing infrastructure review our Australian cloud services and over in-house solutions, organisations in determine the energy and carbon emissions Australia could potentially save a collective footprint. By comparing this information $1 billion in energy-related costs annually, to the average onsite self-hosted server and Australia would reduce its carbon landscape, it is possible to estimate the emissions by 4.5 million tonnes per year1. potential direct savings in energy, cost This is equivalent to the annual carbon and carbon emissions that organisations emissions from 2.2 million cars, or the energy can expect to make by moving to Telstra’s used by 250,000 Australian households. cloud services. Find out more about our Connecting with the Cloud on our website. 1 Based on Australian Bureau of Statistics data on cloud adoption in Australia. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 51 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Creating smarter homes Telehealth in action with the Royal Flying Doctor Service Today the average Australian household A reality of living in regional Australia is that it often means it’s has nine connected devices and by 2020, difficult to see a specialist, with long wait times for an appointment it’s expected to be 29. In fact, there are more that often requires having to travel considerable distance to attend. connected devices in the world than people. Telehealth services offer great opportunities to deliver better With all these connected devices, and rapid access to healthcare for people living in regional and remote advances in technology, our homes are on Australia. The Royal Flying Doctor Service in Victoria has been the brink of a digital revolution. Just as the delivering telehealth to rural communities since November 2013 smartphone transformed our mobile lives, and as part of their partnership with Telstra Health®, local patients the home is set to change. in Kerang (300 kilometres north of Melbourne) with diabetes can The Telstra Smart Home® concept is more better connect with endocrinologists based in Melbourne from than just a number of connected devices in their local community centre, saving hours of travel time. the home, it’s about how they connect and Telstra Health has worked with the Royal Flying Doctor Service talk to each other and use data to automate to build a new telehealth platform that facilitates this service and enhance different aspects of our by bringing together video conferencing capabilities along with lives. With the aim of bringing smart home secure document management, advanced clinician scheduling technology to the mainstream, we launched and an online booking system in a fully integrated and our first range of products as a part of our customisable solution. Telstra Smart Home platform in November. In partnership with iControl, the range of Telstra Health is the largest health software and solutions vendor connected gadgets are controlled from a in Australia, enabling healthcare providers to better connect smartphone or tablet through the Telstra with each other and with the patients they serve, and help improve Smart Home app. the quality, safety and efficiency of health services. We believe that technology has the power to improve connections between Telstra Smart Home is here to make lives healthcare providers and patients to help improve the quality, easier for the everyday person, whether it efficiency and security of health services in Australia. be to check on your home when you’re away, make sure the kids are home safely from school, or making sure we remember to turn off an appliance. Smart home advancements also have huge potential for people living with a disability or those who want to remain in their own homes as they age. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 52 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Telstra Foundation® Building the next generation Highlights in FY17 include: The Telstra Foundation combines social of digital makers and citizens •e  ight regional and remote Indigenous innovation with digital connection to With our partners, we’re building digital community groups were selected to transform the lives of young people. We making and digital citizenship skills in participate in IDX Flint, a free, train-theproudly support non-profits that create communities, classrooms and public libraries trainer program within our Indigenous brilliant connected futures for young people across Australia. We invest in digital learning Digital Excellence partnership with the living in Australia. Our investments focus experiences focussed on coding, 3D printing, NCIE. IDX Flint works with communities to on collaborations to help young people robotics, cyber safety and creativity skills. deliver engaging digital learning experiences understand, create and safely engage for Indigenous youth. Local Indigenous with technology; and support tech savvy In FY17, our investments supported 72,704 Elders and community groups are involved non-profits that are using technology to young people to create with technology, in the co-design of the program to ensure positively change the lives of young people. safely. We enabled 3,126 community focussed cultural elements are optimised alongside organisations (non-profits, libraries, schools science and technology skills. IDX Flint In FY17, we partnered with 13 charity and social and community groups) to connect with teaches design thinking skills, robotics, enterprise partners to enable young people to learning opportunities in digital citizenship, 3D printing and digital making. Communities thrive online. We committed $6 million through STEAM and digital making. We also upskilled selected for an IDX Flint experience included the Telstra Foundation to support community 6,708 digital guides a mix of Telstra Bourke (NSW), Robinvale (VIC), Alice Springs programs and partnerships, in addition to employees, librarians, teachers, Indigenous (NT), Bamaga/Inginoo (QLD), Broome (WA), facilitating nearly $1.4 million in charitable Elders and other community leaders to Birdsville (QLD), Lake Macquarie (NSW) and donations from Telstra employees and support young people to explore the positive Elcho Island (NT) Telstra shareholders. benefits of being connected. •s  upported over 1,909 Code Clubs and Code Club Australia wants to give every child in Australia To bring this work to life, we partner with delivered train-the-trainer programs to the skills, confidence and opportunity to shape their world. the National Centre of Indigenous Excellence 1,554 teachers as Code Club Australia’s (NCIE), Alannah & Madeline Foundation, founding philanthropic investor. In July PROJECT ROCKIT, Code Club Australia, 2016, as part of the Telstra and Code Club Student Youth Network, Assistive Technology Moonhack1 event, more than 10,000 kids Australia, Cuberider, Sharing Stories from around Australia set a world record Foundation and a selection of regional in computer coding and remote Australian schools and libraries. • our Telstra Digital Kids program curated six digital citizen projects delivered across 40 regional locations across Australia with the aim to encourage young people to safely “create with tech not just consume it”. 1 Moonhack is a trade mark of Code Club Australia Limited. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 53 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Supporting non-profits that change Our current partners include: We are also helping non-profits and social e-mental health gets a boost the lives of young people •R  eachOut Australia and Orygen (National enterprises “do digital better” as the founding The intersection of technology with mental Centre of Excellence for Youth Mental funder of the Remarkable accelerator (with health services is a key investment area Non-profits inspire us every day, particularly Cerebral Palsy Alliance); our face-to-face those that support young people at high risk Health): we’re investing in new ways to for the Telstra Foundation®. leverage technology to treat youth mental Telstra innovation boot-camps; and our of social exclusion. In FY17, we continued our partnership with Fitzroy Academy to develop Orygen, a longstanding partner of the multi-year partnerships with organisations health, from awareness and prevention through to e-health tools for clinicians engaging online lessons and tools for social Telstra Foundation, has consistently driven tackling some of the tough issues facing impact programs. thought leadership in the area of e-mental young people today with a focus on identifying •A  ssistive Technology Australia: our health interventions for young people. digital solutions. funding is connecting people living with In addition, as part of the Telstra Shareholder In FY17, the Telstra Foundation invested complex communication needs to life Dividend Reinvestment Plan, Telstra $500,000 over three years in Orygen’s new Our investment is helping non-profits that shareholders donated over $580,000 work with young people to reimagine their changing tech solutions initiative to develop the world’s first virtual to our partner ReachOut in FY17, which clinic designed for young people suffering products and services with technology. We • Cerebral Palsy Alliance and MJD Foundation: helped to develop a new digital platform focus on partners and projects that deliver we’re backing new technologies to improve from severe and complex mental health to improve access to mental health services conditions. The innovative project blends benefits to young people at high risk of ill the wellbeing of people living with disability, for young people. mental health, living with disability, living in including gamified wearable tech, robotics, face-to-face and online clinical and regional, rural and remote communities and IoT, virtual and augmented reality. therapy interventions. It features chat young Indigenous Australians. We provide a bots, sentiment analytics, machine mix of funding and in-kind support to scope, learning, natural language processing, develop and scale digital products and and also functionality such as video services for socially excluded young people. conferencing, real time online chat, SMS, appointment trackers, action plans, real time evaluations, and geo-located reminders to practice therapeutic skills. It will be developed for clients and clinicians to integrate technology based care into different aspects of everyday life. A group of 150 young people will participate in the program pilot from design to delivery, and following evaluation, the program is expected to scale progressively to 30,000+ users globally. ReachOut is Australia’s leading online mental health organisation for young people and their parents. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 54 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Keeping safe in a digital world Approach Progress Our eSmart Libraries partnership with Alannah library managers said eSmart had made a & Madeline Foundation also tackles this difference to cyber safety and the management Digital technology provides access to a world Cyber safety in our communities important issue, equipping public libraries of cyberbullying in their library. of information and communication but it can and connecting library users with the skills The digital citizenship programs funded Knowing how to stay safe online is also also leave us exposed to new risks is areas they need for smart, safe and responsible use through the Telstra Foundation® promote an important part of digital ability and this such as cyberbullying, privacy, data security of technology. eSmart Libraries is now in 67 positive online behaviours for people of is highlighted through our digital inclusion and fraud. Through our programs and those per cent of public libraries across Australia, all ages and experiences, including taking programs. For more information on our work of our partners, we work to build the skills 49 per cent in regional locations. An external action on cyberbullying and online safety. in promoting cyber safety awareness, please and confidence needed to help understand evaluation survey found that 100 per cent of these risks and promote safe and positive Our 2017 ‘Schoolyard to Screen’ study found refer to Digital inclusion. digital experiences. more than one in three (36 per cent) Australian teenagers have personally experienced Online safety is about more than protecting cyberbullying. The study asked Australian us from online danger and personal risk. It’s parents to rank their biggest worries for their also about creating a sense of belonging and school-aged children. One in 10 parents told standards of behaviour that enable us all to us they worried about their child smoking have a positive experience online. At Telstra and drinking alcohol – while 15 per cent we want to empower people to participate were concerned their child would take drugs. safely in the online world and provide the But 40 per cent said cyberbullying and bullying infrastructure and support that make it easy were their biggest worries for their kids. to do so. In February 2017, we helped to launch For more information about cyber security, PROJECT ROCKIT Online, a youth-designed please refer to Protecting our customers digital classroom to tackle cyberbullying, data and privacy. funded by the Telstra Foundation. An Australian first, the online program developed by PROJECT ROCKIT targets school students in years 7 to 9 to take action on cyberbullying and online safety (see case study on next page). PROJECT ROCKIT is empowering young people to stand up and lead change. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 55 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Helping customers stay safe online Telstra Broadband Protect also includes: PROJECT ROCKIT’s digital Telstra Broadband Protect™ helps protect Parental controls – which allows users classroom launched devices connected to more than 1.5 million to choose which types of websites they’re At Telstra, we are passionate about helping Telstra home broadband services – blocking comfortable with family members visiting young Australians maximise the potential visits to more than 3.7 million websites – helping protect children from known of digital technology – but we want them hosting known malicious content, scams or inappropriate sites and content on any to do so safely. We’re proud to be working viruses each month. It does so by blocking device in the home. Parents can also set with PROJECT ROCKIT, a ground-breaking those website at the Telstra network before internet access times to help manage movement against bullying, to help launch they reach you. It is automatically activated when kids can go online, and use Homework a new digital classroom that aims to stamp on Home Internet Bundles purchased after Time to restrict social networking and online out cyberbullying. 23 August 2016 and can be accessed through gaming while they study. Telstra 24x7® My Account or the Telstra As well as funding PROJECT ROCKIT Device protection – the Anti-Virus Plus workshops in nine regional and remote 24x7 App. Security helps keep devices free from known towns across the country, we have also viruses, spyware and other threats. The Safe supported PROJECT ROCKIT to leverage Browser function can help protect your technology to scale their important work. personal and financial data when shopping We have invested in PROJECT ROCKIT and banking online. Online, a new online anti-bullying and Social network protection – which helps leadership program to engage students detect cyberbullying, unwanted attention in years 7 to 9. This youth-led and designed and bad behaviour by monitoring children’s program comprises three 20-minute digital activity on their social networks. It allows workshops and was launched in February parents to receive notifications on their child’s 2017. An evaluation of PROJECT ROCKIT Facebook page, and see what they view on Online by Western Sydney University found YouTube and Twitter to better manage their that 96 per cent of students felt they could online experience. help to challenge bullying after completing the engaging, strengths-based, and empowering program. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 56 Environmental Highlights solutions Telstra recognised Reduced our emissions Developed an on the CDP 2016 intensity by Adaptation Climate 68% Framework Climate change and energy While major advances in cloud storage, energy-efficient A List since our FY14 baseline year to manage climate change risks technologies and the Internet of Things (IoT) all have the potential to deliver significant emissions reductions, they are also driving the need for a new type of network – one with enormous capacity and flexibility. However, this type of network will require more energy to build and operate. But the reality is that Telstra’s ‘Network of the Future’ will be more efficient with increasing data loads and will have the power to transform all of our lives – unlocking new opportunities to innovate, and drive energy efficiency across the Australian economy. Sustainability 2020 Target As we scale up our data capabilities to meet the growing Reduce carbon emissions intensity (tCO2e per petabyte) demands posed by 5G, virtual reality and the IoT, our rapid by 50 per cent by 2020, based on a baseline year of FY17 expansion in these new arenas provides a unique opportunity to prepare for a more energy-focused, climate-conscious future. We believe that business has an important role to play in addressing climate change and we are committed to helping Scope for environmental reporting for Sustainable Development and and reporting. Starting with our most material our customers and communities identify new solutions to reduce Our sustainability reporting covers the World Resources Institute as well international operations, we will continue financial year 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 as the Australian National Greenhouse to expand on the scope of our reporting over emissions, limit global warming, and develop mitigation and and Energy Reporting (Measurement) time. Wherever possible and relevant, we (FY17) for Telstra Corporation Limited. This resilience measures. We are also committed to continuously includes relevant Australian subsidiaries, Determination 2008 (as amended). In have extended the scope of this report to improving our own operations by setting tougher emissions joint ventures and partnerships as set out this section, we report Scope 1, 2, and include our operations across the Telstra in the National Greenhouse and Energy 3 GHG emissions arising from Telstra’s Group, as well as a discussion of any broader intensity targets, implementing more energy-efficient processes operations and employee business travel. impacts across our value chain. Reporting Act 2007. and technologies, and protecting our infrastructure and assets As our international operations expand Information regarding the controlled We calculate our greenhouse gas (GHG) from the impacts of extreme weather events. emissions according to the Greenhouse we are committed to developing a global entities in the Telstra Group can be found Gas Protocol of the World Business Council framework for sustainability data collection on our website. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Energy and emissions Approach Progress To demonstrate our commitment to environmental improvement, we have At Telstra, we strive to reduce energy Managing our energy and emissions set a new carbon emissions intensity consumption across every aspect of our target covering the period FY18 FY20. In FY14 we set a long term target to reduce business, through a careful program of The target is to reduce carbon emissions our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per planning, monitoring and optimisation. This intensity (tCO2e per petabyte) by 50 per cent terabyte of data used (emissions intensity) year, we continued to roll out energy-efficient by 2020, based on a baseline year of FY17. by 55 per cent over the three year period improvements across our network sites, from FY15 to FY17, from a baseline year installing new lighting and air-conditioning of FY14. controls, retiring inefficient cooling systems, Greenhouse gas emissions, terabyte usage and emissions intensity(i) developing improved fault detection and investing in solar PV and combined energy Our GHG emissions 2m 9m storage. We also expanded our support for a more renewable-powered future – investing intensity has reduced 0.58 in a major new solar farm development in central Queensland. by 68 per cent from our This year, we announced our vision for our FY14 baseline year and 1.5m 0.42 6m Network of the Future, involving a major investment in our network leadership and exceeded our target of growth that will transform the way customers interact with our network. This is an important 55 per cent. 1m opportunity to support the latest technologies A main driver for this has been the significant 0.26 including energy-efficient cloud services and rate of growth in data use – up by 192 per 3m the Internet of Things applications whilst cent over the target period and up by 33 per 0.19 allowing us to optimise our facilities. As we cent during FY17. 0.5m build the Network of the Future, we will need to operate our existing and future networks in From our baseline year of FY14 our absolute parallel – which may result in our short-term GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3 tCO2e) have emissions profile increasing in preparation reduced by 5.9 per cent. The primary reason tCO2e TB for the longer term benefits the new network for the absolute emissions reduction is FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 will bring. due to a decrease in the energy coefficients (emission factors) published by the Australia For more information on our work to Government. Our ongoing program of energy Total emissions Terabyte (TB) Emissions intensity support businesses, customers and the efficiency projects has also contributed to (Scope 1, 2 and 3) tCO2e Usage tCO2e/TB community identify opportunities to improve the decline in emissions. their environmental performance, please refer to Social and environmental innovation. (i) Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using the latest emission factors at the time of reporting. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 58 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Energy efficiency Since 2011 we have invested $52 million We continue to identify energy efficiency ongoing site optimisation program. These Our largest source of greenhouse gas (GHG) in improving the energy efficiency of our improvements across all our operations. audits help us identify faults impacting emissions is electricity consumption. This facilities. This year we invested $5 million These include implementation of lighting energy consumption and identify new accounts for 95 per cent of our total GHG in energy reduction projects that delivered and air conditioning controls, more rapid opportunities for capital investment. emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3). Our network a collective saving 17,345 t CO2e and more and comprehensive fault detection and repair, We have also been working with our sites are our largest consumers of electricity than 18,000 MWh of electricity. and optimised facility design. air-conditioning contractors to identify and and we continue to investigate opportunities For a detailed breakdown of our GHG This year, our energy team has been using an deliver efficient operation and maintenance to improve their energy efficiency through a emissions and energy consumption, enhanced monitoring and analysis capability routines that are better suited to a Telstra range of activities. please refer to our reporting website. to identify unexpected peaks in consumption. network environment. We continue to provide Every week we examine the energy profiles support through our energy hotline number of 1,200 Telstra network sites using a tool where our maintenance staff and contractors developed in-house. By bringing together can obtain expert assistance and advice local weather data and expected energy from local energy managers. consumption profiles, we can identify issues FY 17 greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3) by category We also complete decommissioning activities soon after they occur and are able to dispatch which includes depowering redundant our field staff to correct them. equipment and reconfiguring the network Some 644 energy audits were completed to optimise equipment utilisation and have 1.2m across our network portfolio as part of our saved 43,594 MWh this year. FY17 energy reduction initiatives Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 1,253,463 192,454 Initiative Description Savings (MWh) 52,680 800k Building services Our capital works program includes the installation 7,519 energy efficiency of fresh air cooling systems, high efficiency chillers, upgrades electronically commutated fans and lighting controls. Upgrading Rectifiers convert electricity from AC mains 315 rectifiers power to DC power that is required to run our telecommunications equipment. We continue to 400k upgrade older inefficient units to more modern, high efficiency rectifiers. These are now achieving efficiency levels of 96 – 98 per cent. Heating, ventilation We conduct physical inspections of our network 9,826 and cooling sites to identify faults affecting power consumption tCO2e optimisation and review equipment performance to identify optimisation opportunities. Grid connected We install rooftop solar panels at some of our 479 Network sites Offices, call centres Data Vehicles Flights Waste solar photovoltaics exchange buildings to power our telecommunications (exchanges, base and retail shops centres equipment and reduce the amount the energy we stations, warehouse, consume from the electricity grid. payphones, etc.) Electricity Fuel Waste Total 18,139 Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 59 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Managing our transport emissions The electricity from this plant won’t flow Emerging lithium-ion battery storage Our commitment to transparency Our fleet emissions are the second largest directly into Telstra facilities. It is however technology offers an innovative new way for As part of our commitment to contributor to our emissions profile. This year an important investment that helps protect Telstra to power our network. The visibility transparency, we have disclosed a the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our us from movement in the costs of supplying and control offered by this new technology detailed breakdown of our environmental fleet increased by 10 per cent. This was due to energy to our facilities and also improves provides us with the opportunity to ensure we performance data, available on our an increase in the number of fleet vehicles to the overall carbon footprint of Australia’s have a reliable source of back-up power, and reporting website. support the addition of 1,000 technicians to electricity supply. With Telstra as a confirmed will enable us to reduce our energy costs by our workforce assisting in critical nbn™ work long-term customer, RES Australia has gained consuming electricity from the grid when it is To provide stakeholders’ confidence in our and servicing our customers. We continue to the confidence to invest around $100 million cheaper and storing solar power for use after environmental performance, we engage work on reducing our fleet emissions through in the solar energy plant, which will be one the sun goes down. We have installed and EY to provide limited assurance over our a range of initiatives including the removal of the largest renewable energy sources in commenced operation of combined solar FY17 environmental performance data. of large six cylinder wagons from our fleet northern Australia. and lithium-ion battery storage solutions For an overview of the metrics included and replacing them with fuel efficient four at a number of pilot sites to assess their in the assurance for this year, please see Construction of the Emerald solar project will EY’s assurance statement. cylinder models. potential benefits. begin later this year and electricity generation We participate in GreenFleet for all our salary is expected to commence in 2018. The project Since 2003 we have also disclosed packaging and novated leasing. Since 2003 will also collaborate with local businesses and our GHG emissions and climate change Telstra employees through GreenFleet, have Indigenous communities to create local supply risks annually through our questionnaire funded the planting of over 1.4 million trees arrangements to support the construction response to the CDP. Our submissions around Australia. and operation of the plant. are available online. Implementing solar and battery storage at Renewable energy our exchanges We continue to investigate opportunities to use renewable energy, as well as fuel cells We continue into the next phase of and batteries for energy storage across our implementing AC grid-connected solar network. Developments across solar energy PV at our exchange buildings. This year and storage, software, and the Internet of we installed solar PV with a combined Things are opening up new ways to utilise capacity of 340kW at five of our large renewable energy, as well as make energy network exchanges, which are significant consumption more dynamic and efficient. energy-consuming sites and offered suitable conditions for installation. We Investing in renewable energy have also been exploring new battery To assist our energy management programs, storage technologies that may be suitable we have become a more active participant for use in network facilities, delivering in the energy market. This year, we signed a benefits through continued site support long-term power purchase agreement with in the event of mains electricity failures, RES Australia, which will see the development and cost savings through energy trading. Dhanesh, Gavin and Anthony from Telstra Operations. of a new 70 megawatt solar farm near Emerald in central Queensland. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 60 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Climate change resilience Approach Progress Key areas of the framework are: Telstra recognised on the •a daptation principles: a set of overarching CDP 2016 Climate A List Climate change and increasing extreme Building resilience principles for our teams to take into weather events will demand adaptation The CDP is a non-profit that runs a global Our infrastructure is a long-term asset, account when completing capital works disclosure system for investors, companies, or development of resilience measures or investment decisions. This includes much of it located in remote areas exposed cities, states and regions to manage and to enable us to continue to deliver our considering cumulative impacts of multiple to extreme weather conditions. Increased assess their environmental impacts. products and services. risks, as well as how risks may evolve or frequency and severity of extreme Our climate change position statement weather events can damage and disrupt change over varying timeframes The Global Climate Change Index which acknowledges climate change as both our operations and service delivery. To •a daptation actions: actions to assist our measures the transparency and integrity a business risk and an opportunity, and understand the influence of climate change teams implement the adaptation principles, of a company’s reporting on climate change highlights the critical role ICT can play in on our operations (both present and future), including guidance on integrating climate recognised Telstra by including us on the assisting our customers and communities we conducted a climate change risk change considerations into decisions, global CDP 2016 Climate A List for the first move towards a low-carbon future and assessment in FY16. The risk assessment providing capacity building and training, time. Telstra was recognised as being become more resilient to a changing identified the following key priority risks: building our operational and asset resilience among the top nine per cent of global climate. We want to work in partnership and developing response plans for climate companies awarded A grade performance. • higher temperatures leading to higher with governments and the wider community related events Telstra’s recognition in the Climate A List energy costs to address the environmental, economic •g overnance and reporting: guidance on is a result of having strategies to mitigate and social impacts of climate change. • flood damage governance requirements including executive or capitalise on the risks and opportunities Our response to addressing climate • potential for more frequent and prolonged oversight, defining strategic objectives and associated with climate change. In part, change is focused on three key areas: network outages due to extreme events. how we report and evaluate programs. our 2016 performance reflects: • minimising our emissions by identifying In response, we developed an Adaptation Work is underway to integrate the principles • tracking ahead of our three year carbon opportunities to improve the energy Framework in FY17 to continuously of this adaptation framework into standard emissions intensity target (55 per cent efficiency of our networks, through improve how we manage our climate business processes. The project team is reduction by FY17, from a FY14 baseline) more efficient equipment and technologies, and extreme-weather risks. The framework working to prioritise strategic areas in key • delivering absolute emissions reductions renewable energy sources and storage, outlines how we can use existing processes business units to develop action plans to during the target period (FY14-17) and emissions intensity targets and systems most effectively and efficiently embed climate resilience across current, to manage climate change risks, including • public disclosure of our climate change • building resilience by assessing the risks of planned and future business activities including how we integrate these considerations into position statement climate change and developing management asset planning, investment and service delivery. approaches for our own operations, and future decision making. • a more strategic approach to evaluating supporting customers in responding to For information on our progress for risks and opportunities posed by extreme weather events minimising our emissions, please refer climate change. to Energy and emissions. • enabling low-carbon economic growth by making energy-efficient technology more For more information on our work in helping accessible across our networks, and working to enable low-carbon economic growth with governments on policies that encourage through ICT, please refer to Social and and incentivise low-carbon innovation. environmental innovation. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 61 Environmental Highlights solutions Launched our new Launched our first Collected Go Mobile Electronics 19.9 tonnes Environment and resource efficiency Swap Reuse and of mobile phones and accessories through the As consumers want the latest smartphones and other and My Business Mobile Lease plans Recycling MobileMuster program, exceeding our target of electronic gadgets, e-waste continues to increase and is one of the fastest growing types of waste in Australia. Strategy 17 tonnes We know there are now more than 23 million unused mobile phones sitting on shelves or in drawers across the country. As one of Australia’s leading technology companies, we have a major responsibility to improve our resource efficiency – and help our suppliers and customers minimise environmental impacts. As we prioritise resource efficiency across our operations, it is becoming clear that these initiatives can also create business opportunities – including new revenue streams from reused materials, innovative products with enhanced sustainability credentials, and cost savings from reduced packaging materials. Telstra will continue to pursue these opportunities as we mature and adopt more rigorous reuse, recycling and efficiency targets. Sustainability 2020 Target Reuse or recycle 60 tonnes of mobile phones and We also have a responsibility to advocate for industry change and assist our customers to improve their accessories over the next three years environmental performance, while working to ensure our operations comply with international environmental obligations. These include monitoring and managing the increasing complexity of our environmental risks. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environment and resource efficiency Resource efficiency Approach Progress Our ambition is to harness the benefits of As a leading telecommunications and technology company, we are reliant on Telstra has supported responsible recycling programs for nearly 20 years. We are a electronics reuse and recycling, while ensuring large volumes of electronic equipment to operate our network. The rapid evolution founding member of MobileMuster – a non-profit, government accredited, mobile secure and responsible disposal practices. of technology requires us to continuously phone recycling scheme in Australia. upgrade our network and has also increased In FY17 we collected 19.9 tonnes of mobile This year we launched our first Electronics phones and accessories through the customer demand for the latest devices Reuse and Recycling Strategy, Unlocking MobileMuster program, exceeding our target – resulting in the increasing quantities of Hidden Value, to systematically manage of 17 tonnes. We collected 4,353 tonnes of equipment becoming e-waste. Responsible and reduce our e-waste impact across our e-waste with a recycling rate of 99.9 per cent. management has become one of our most value chain. It brings focus to the importance significant product stewardship issues. For a detailed breakdown of our resource of applying integrated and collaborative The electronic equipment used by our approaches to realise business value consumption, please refer to our networks and customers is made from through increased electronics recovery, reporting website. critical finite materials, including rare earth reuse and recycling. Total e-waste collected (tonnes) minerals. The manufacture and distribution This presents an opportunity for Telstra to of electronic equipment also requires unlock value through materials efficiency, significant energy and resources associated which includes striving to keep resources with packaging and transport. However, in all in use for as long as possible, extracting the of these areas, we also see opportunity – in maximum value from them while in use, then cost savings from reduced and recycled raw recovering and remanufacturing products materials, and in the development of more at the end of each service life. efficient products that appeal to a more eco-conscious market. We are promoting As our management of e-waste matures, we more flexible mobile plans that encourage aspire to take a circular economy approach consumers to lease rather than purchase the and work across our value chain to extend latest smartphones. the life of the resources we consume from equipment design through to end-of-life 3,940 5,549 4,353 These initiatives present a unique opportunity disposal as well as taking responsibility for Telstra to unlock value through greater beyond the point of manufacture or sale to materials efficiency, keeping resources in influencing the total life cycle of products. use for as long as possible, recovering and remanufacturing products at the end of their service life, and providing an environmentally sustainable message that our employees and FY15 FY16 FY17 suppliers can carry to the wider community. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 63 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environment and resource efficiency Extending the life of smartphones Employee involvement Other materials efficiency initiatives We are also reducing our paper consumption In November this year, we launched our new A key initiative of our Electronics Reuse and As well as managing e-waste, we recognise through the use of DocuSign, a cloud based customer and business mobile lease plans, Recycling Strategy was establishing e-waste that broader materials efficiency also saves platform which allows our people and which give our customers the option to lease Recycling Hubs in major workplaces for valuable resources and minimises our impact customers to quickly, easily and securely their smartphone and obtain a new device our staff. From 1 October 2016, 40 major on the environment. This year we have worked collect and transact business information every 12 months. The swap plans are offices throughout Australia offer a central to reduce the packaging associated with and sign documents at any time on designed for smartphone users who want collection point. our SIM kits and have halved the size of the any compatible device. We have moved the latest generation smartphone each year plastic card used to hold the SIM card. We’re many of our enterprise, business and Our internal Device Centre developed government customers onto DocuSign. while managing their monthly spend. It also progressively introducing this change across the Regener8 program, which collects Since implementing the solution in June allows customers to upgrade a damaged our SIM kit range and to date have despatched and repurposes unused phones from across 2015, we have over 30,000 customers using phone, taking the stress out of being left more than 3.4 million of the half version SIM the business for internal purposes such as it and have saved almost three million pages without a mobile device. As part of the kits. The reduction has resulted in less plastic bulk device testing. This program extends the from being printed. This has resulted in plan, we collect and refurbish or recycle and packaging required to manufacture the lifetime of the phones that would otherwise improved productivity, increased customer returned devices. SIM kits as well as lower energy use through go to recycling, reducing our environmental advocacy as well as saving more than optimising distribution and warehousing. Re-using customer equipment impact by avoiding the need to produce new 11 tonnes of wood fibre and 600 kilolitres phones. This year, the program collected and of water. When we provide equipment upgrades repurposed more than 1,950 mobile devices. to business and enterprise customers we supply switches, routers and other hardware. However, many parts of their old equipment are still useable. Previously we sent this equipment to e-waste traders to be repurposed, recycled or sold. This year, we have developed a new process to collect and catalogue the old equipment, and provide a list of available equipment to project managers to use before they order new equipment. Since April 2016, we have re-used 3,181 devices across 241 customers. We have also moved to a ‘just in time’ ordering process, where we only order what is needed compared to our previous process where stock was ordered six months in advance. As a result, we have decreased ‘on hand’ volumes by 39 per cent. In FY17, the programs have delivered a $4 million benefit. Telstra’s new half-size SIM kit range was released this year. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 64 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environment and resource efficiency Environmental risk and compliance Approach Progress Work continues to minimise our environmental Telstra, as a minimum, seeks to be impacts. Our approach is aligned with the compliant with all applicable environmental new ISO 14001:2015 standard to which Telstra laws and regulatory permissions relevant was certified at corporate level in 2016. to its operations. Where instances of non-compliance may occur, Telstra Our minimum environmental management has procedures requiring that internal requirements cover: investigations are conducted to determine •climate change and resource management: the cause of the non-compliance and proactive programs for conserving resource to ensure that any risk of recurrence is use, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, minimised. Telstra’s procedures further enabling low carbon economic growth require that the relevant government and managing risks associated with a authorities are notified of any environmental changing climate incidents (where applicable) in compliance •c  ontamination and pollution control: with statutory requirements. Telstra ensures systematic and consistent processes that it complies with notices issued by to identify, control, investigate, report government authorities. Telstra has not and manage contamination and pollution been prosecuted for, or convicted of, any in our owned and leased sites significant breaches of environmental •h  azardous materials and dangerous regulation during the financial year. goods: risk management processes include handling hydrocarbons and asbestos containing material • land stewardship: respecting the land and the traditional owners of the land on which we operate by ensuring that land use is planned and managed to deliver a sustainable outcome, taking into account adjacent and future land use, cultural heritage and biodiversity • waste management: proactively minimise the diversion of waste to landfill through sound procurement strategies, efficient use of resources, reuse or recycling of waste streams and diligent waste disposal. Bigger Picture 2017 Sustainability Report 65 For further enquiries, email us at *The spectrum device and ™ are trademarks and ® are registered sustainability@team.telstra.com trademarks of Telstra Corporation Ltd, ABN 33 051 775 556 **nbn™, nbn co. and other nbn™ logos and brands are trademarks of nbn co limited and used under licence. iPhone® and iPad® are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
