KSB Group Annual Report 2016 KSB PROFILE KSB is a leading supplier of pumps, valves and related services. Our reliable, high-efficiency products are used in applications worldwide where fluids need to be transported or shut off, covering everything from building services, industry and water transport to waste water treatment, power plant processes and mining. Wherever our customers are in the world, 170 service centres are on hand to provide local inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair services. Innovative technology that is the fruit of KSB’s research and development activities forms the basis for the company’s success and that of our customers. Cover: Multitec multistage ring-section pump for transporting large volumes of water at high pressures G RO U P FINANCIAL HIGHLI G HTS BU S I N E S S D E V E L O P MENT A ND EA R NINGS 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Order intake €m 2,156.6 2,261.2 2,321.2 2,241.2 2,257.4 Sales revenue €m 2,165.7 2,334.8 2,181.7 2,247.3 2,268.2 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) €m 88.2 105.2 89.2* 136.2 150.4** Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) €m 74.6 93.4 72.8* 119.4 132.8** Earnings after income taxes €m 47.8 52.2 46.3* 79.9 90.3** Cash flow €m 139.8 137.5 124.4* 142.3 156.9** BA L A N C E S H E E T 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Balance sheet total €m 2,350.2 2,291.1 2,277.9* 2,151.5 2,188.0** Fixed assets €m 641.2 633.1 622.6 591.2 602.0 Capital expenditure €m 82.2 82.8 85.1 57.1 91.4 Depreciation and amortisation expense €m 72.6 72.8 66.2 60.2 58.6 Current assets €m 1,596.9 1,573.6 1,568.5 1,520.6 1,546.2 Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) €m 890.3 870.2 819.7* 844.5 832.2** Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interests) % 37.9 38.0 36.0* 39.3 38.0** PR O F I TA B I L I T Y 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Return on sales % 3.5 4.0 3.3 5.3 5.9** Return on equity % 8.5 11.1 8.8* 14.2 15.6** Return on capital employed % 4.1 4.9 4.3 6.6 7.5** E M P L OY E E S 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Number of employees at 31 Dec. 15,572 16,196 16,309 16,546 16,207 Staff costs €m 798.8 819.3 784.8* 787.6 758.3** SHARES 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 637.7 659.2 735.7 804.3 769.4 Earnings per ordinary share (EPS ) € 18.68 22.30 21.97* 37.38 42.48** Earnings per preference share ( EPS ) € 18.94 22.56 22.23* 37.64 42.74** Dividend per ordinary share € 5.50 5.50 8.50 12.00 12.00 Dividend per preference share € 5.76 5.76 8.76 12.26 12.26 * Adjustment under IAS 8 ** Adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19 PRO D U CTS AND SERVIC ES KSB pumps and valves are primarily used to transport or shut off all kinds of fluid. Their efficient and reliable operation is taken care of by 3,000 service specialists worldwide offering inspection, servicing, maintenance, repairs and consultancy services. The most important fields of application for our products are: K E Y I N D I C ATO R S / P R O D U C T S A N D S E RV I C E S INDUSTRY BUILDING SERVICES WATER ENGINEERING WASTE WATER ENGINEERING ENERGY SUPPLY MINING G R O W I N G W I T H WAT E R GROWING WITH WATER A responsible approach to water as our most precious resource has always been one of KSB’s core competencies. Population growth, scarcity of clean G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT drinking water in many regions, urbanisation and ­rising environmental awareness are driving global demand for new water supply infrastructures and efficient solutions for waste water disposal. KSB intends to become more actively engaged in these areas with innovative pumps and valves. C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 2 1 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 4 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Board of Management 88 Balance Sheet 6 To Our Shareholders 89 Statement of Comprehensive Income 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 90 Statement of Changes in Equity 16 A Look Back at 2016 92 Statement of Cash Flows 18 Employees 93 Notes 21 Corporate Social Responsibility 171 List of Shareholdings 175 Supervisory Board 176 Board of Management 177 Proposal on the Appropriation of the 2 GROWING WITH WATER Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 28 30 Facts & Figures Water Supply Cycle 5 GENERAL INFORMATION 32 Water Extraction 36 Water Treatment 180 Responsibility Statement 40 Water Transport 181 Auditor’s Report 44 Water Use 183 Glossary 48 Waste Water 184 Contacts 3 COVER GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Group Financial Highlights Products and Services 54 Basic Principles of the Group Global Presence 54 Group Business Model Financial Calendar 55 Control System 56 Research and Development LEGEND 57 Economic Review 57 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View Glossary 59 Business Development and Results of Operations 63 Financial Position and Net Assets 66 Summary of the Board of Management 66 Dependent Company Report 67 Report on Expected Developments 70 Opportunities and Risks Report 82 Acquisition-related Disclosures 83 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 289 a of the HGB) 84 Remuneration of the Board of Management CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N M A N AG E M E N T A N D I S S U E S 2 0 1 6 1 G R O W I N G W I T H WAT E R G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 4 Board of Management 6 To Our Shareholders 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 16 A Look Back at 2016 18 Employees 21 Corporate Social Responsibility G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 4 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 BOA R D OF MANAGEME N T Di pl. -Kf m . We rn e r S te gm ü l l e r joined the Board of Management on 1 January 2014. His responsibilities include Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Communications, Investor Relations, IT, Legal & Compliance, Patents and Trademarks, Internal Audits and the Service segment. The two members of the Board of Management are jointly responsible for strategy and the Regions. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 5 B oa rd o f Man ag em en t Dr. Ing. Pe t er Bu t h man n has been on the Board of Management since 1 January 2007. He is responsible for Technology, Production, Sales, Purchasing and Human Resources, as well as Pumps and Valves. He is also Human Resources Director. 6 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 Dear Shareholders and Business Partners, New journeys create new paths. In 2016 we set a series of important milestones to map out our company’s progress for the next few years. This will help us respond to changing markets, technologies and customer requirements, as you will see below. KSB’s current direction has put us on the right track towards achieving a return on sales of more than 6 percent for 2018, bringing us closer to our target of 8 percent. This is what we are doing to achieve our goals: 1. We are strengthening our business in the water and waste water sector. In some regions outside of Europe, our customers perceive us as a company that offers the best technical solutions for the most demanding fluids. We want to continue living up to this reputation in the industry, energy, mining and transport sectors. KSB has extensive expertise in handling hot or cryogenic liquids, acids, lyes, oils or water / sand mixtures, and the transport of water is an area in which we continue to excel. It is therefore all the more important for us to strengthen our image as a supplier of technical products and services for the water and waste water industry. We have an optimum range of products and services; the market is growing continuously and in sales and production we are investing all of our efforts to tap opportunities associated with this growth. To pursue this goal, we launched a global sales initiative, added selected products to our portfolio and put together an international team of experts for important projects. Water is also a key topic in this annual report, as outlined in the following section. 2. We are intensifying our standard and service business. This is our response to the persistently weak demand for large-scale projects. Our strategy is to expand our general business with standard products and to progressively modernise and automate their production. 2016 saw the first launch of a worldwide campaign for our most important standard product, the Eta pump family. This also involved the commissioning of a new production facility for pumps used in heating and air-conditioning systems. We have extended our network of service centres for all types of pumps and valves worldwide. At the same time, we are focussing on inspiring our customers’ interest in new service offers, for ­example identifying energy savings. 3. We are setting new standards in plant engineering Our plant engineering customers are adapting to the increased level of competition through modularisation and standardisation; KSB is supporting them in this process. In key account management, we are helping major customers to develop standardised solutions for industrial CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 7 To O ur Sh ar eh o l d er s plants and power stations. This will enable these companies to act more quickly in their markets and remain competitive in future. KSB itself is using framework agreements to increase p ­ roduction volume as well as leveraging its global manufacturing network to serve these key account customers within the short lead times demanded by the market. 4. We are researching and investing in Industry 4.0. For companies in our sector, digitalisation is a fundamental requirement for ensuring business success. Our new Business Innovation Lab has been set up to explore the opportunities emerging in an increasingly connected world of technology for KSB and its customers. Working in cooperation, we are developing digital solutions for practical use in industry. This will open up new paths for us to explore, ranging from remote plant diagnosis to 3D printing of spare parts. 5. We are changing our cost basis. As announced, we launched our Efficiency Improvement Programme 10/10/10 in 2016 to ­reduce our material, staff and overhead costs by € 200 million. To achieve this, we have initiated more than 1,300 projects. Some 900 are already being implemented and are expected to ­deliver the targeted savings. The associated one-off costs impacted our 2016 earnings, however, and will continue to affect our results in 2017. We are aware that the measures introduced require a certain amount of patience from our shareholders. 2017 will represent an interim step towards our goal. At the latest by 2018 we will be able to present KSB as a company ideally equipped for the future with attractive ­earnings. KSB’s Board of Management looks forward to outlining tangible progress in our report to you next year. Dr. Peter Buthmann Werner Stegmüller 8 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 REPORT OF THE S UP E RVI S O RY BOARD Throughout the last financial year, the Supervisory Board continued to perform its tasks with great care in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure. We regularly advised the Board of Management on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Supervisory Board was consulted directly and at an early stage with regard to decisions of fundamental importance. The Board of Management informed us in a comprehensive and timely manner, and in compliance with its duty to inform under the law and Rules of Procedure, about the position of the company, in particular its business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, as well as relevant corporate planning and strategic and ­organisational development issues via written and oral reports p ­ repared regularly and on an ad hoc basis. We continued to meet on a regular basis to discuss selected issues, both with and in the absence of the Board of Management. We discussed all business transactions significant for the company in detail on the basis of the Board of Management’s reports. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were reviewed and commented on in detail by the Board of Management. We adopted our resolutions on the reports and proposals by the Board of Management ­after thorough e­ xamination and discussion. Beyond the intensive work in the plenary sessions and in the committees, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular and other S­ upervisory Board members were in frequent contact with the Board of Management outside the meetings to discuss the current business development and significant transactions as well as questions of strategy, planning, risk assessment, risk management and compliance. In the reporting period, no conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board that would have been subject to disclosure in the Report of the Supervisory Board. MAIN FOCUS OF WORK IN THE SUPERVISORY BOARD PLENARY SESSIONS Core topics of our discussions with the Board of Management were the revision of strategic objectives, and the continued development of the corporate organisation and international production concept. The analysis of business development in the segments and Regions represented an additional focus, as did major investment projects at various sites. We dealt on an ongoing basis with the company’s economic position, the progress of the new efficiency improvement programme, and the prospects facing selected markets. Based on the recommendations and suggestions contained in the German Corporate Governance Code, we also looked at fundamental aspects of good corporate governance. Special emphasis was placed on corporate culture because KSB had for the first time recorded and evaluated the employee’s views concerning the company by means of a structured global survey. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 9 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd Four regular Supervisory Board meetings were held in 2016. The performance of KSB Aktien­ gesellschaft and the Group was the subject of regular discussions in the plenary sessions, ­primarily with regard to net assets, financial position, employment levels and strategic direction, as well as material investment, divestment and acquisition projects. In a few cases of obvious structural difficulties, we decided to approve the Board of Management’s proposals to sell off the units concerned. The Board of Management regularly explained to us in detail the ways in which KSB can achieve the planned growth for the coming years, including the underlying methodological and ­strategic considerations. Required investments were subjected to critical analysis before ­being approved and their implementation was subsequently monitored by us. In this context, the Supervisory Board approved significant financial resources to maintain the high technical level of plants on a Group-wide basis, while at the same time taking into account specific site-­ related aspects. We approved major investments, in particular for the expansion of the German head office and our production capacities in Pakistan. We repeatedly examined the status of the expansion work in our French and Indian subsidiaries, which are making good progress at the sites in La Roche-Chalais and Shirwal. In order to obtain a major Chinese order for the supply of pumps we had to expand our local manufacturing facilities, as already reported. We expect the successful implementation of this demanding project to strengthen KSB’s market over the long term, and so we ensure that we receive ongoing updates from the Board of Management on the progress made with the contract. In a number of countries, the start or expansion of business ­activities led to property acquisitions. In each case we discussed the long-term impact of such measures. Given the ongoing changes in the energy sector, we continued to look at the impact these radical market movements are having on our business operations. The main focus is on the optimisation of manufacturing capacities within our international production network. The current implementation of the concept entails significant changes to in-house logistics, so we are supervising it closely. In some cases this also requires the closing down of unprofitable smaller factories, for example in Bochum, Germany, or the sale of units outside future core areas, such as the business of KSB AMRI, Inc. in Houston (Texas), USA. 10 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 Repeatedly on the agenda was the continued development of the corporate organisation. We paid special attention to the reduction of internal administrative costs, for example by reducing the number of Group companies and relocating standardised processes to highly efficient ­external service providers. The latter has since been contractually agreed upon, so the implementation of the required processes will be of high importance in the current year. These ­activities to reduce expenditure were rounded off by the continuous application of the programme initiated by the Board of Management at the end of 2015 to enhance efficiency in all Group areas. Another focus of our deliberations continued to be the progress made towards strengthening our value-based corporate culture, with the Board of Management providing regular updates. The results of the Group-wide employee engagement survey, which were presented in this context, revealed interesting findings and also areas where action is needed. The latter have to be addressed in order to continue the constructive dialogue with staff and meet their expectations. By doing this we ensure that the employees’ performance and engagement are continually strengthened. For the September session, the Supervisory Board convened for a meeting at the Halle site in Germany. Based on the relevant reports of the Board of Management, we discussed in detail the status of the strategy revision for various markets that is intended to sustainably promote and secure the company’s long-term success. As well as organic growth – for example by working more intensively on certain business areas – the potential for development based on acquisitions was explored. In this context, effective proposals were made which have to be considered in greater depth in the current year. The market opportunities offered by digitalisation were also addressed in some detail. In addition, we familiarised ourselves with local business development and the modern technical facilities at the Halle site. At the December meeting, one main issue was the approval for the introduction of so-called “Shared Services”. The aim here is to collate and outsource some services that were previously performed in-house, especially in the commercial departments. Within the scope of this challenging project, internal processes are to be standardised to a greater extent in future and cost structures are to be optimised. We also looked at business performance during the financial year and planning for 2017. Special attention was also given to the suggestion made by the majority shareholder – Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal – to change the legal form of the company from a public limited company [Aktiengesellschaft] into a partnership limited by shares [Kommanditgesellschaft]. After discussing the matter in more detail the Board of Management and Supervisory Board gave their approval to this proposal on 12 January 2017. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 11 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT NOMINATION COMMITTEE PERSONNEL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Klaus Kühborth Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Chairman Dr. Martin Auer, Chairman Dr. Thomas Seeberg No. of meetings: 8 No. of meetings: 4 No. of meetings: 1 COMMITTEES OF THE SU P E RV I S O RY BOA R D and their chairs, as well as number of meetings AUDIT COMMITTEE MEDIATION COMMITTEE in the year under review Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann, Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Chairman Chairman No. of meetings: 0 No. of meetings: 4 MAIN FOCUS OF WORK IN THE COMMITTEES In order to perform its duties efficiently, the Supervisory Board worked with five committees in 2016. These prepare the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be discussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also make their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allo­ cation has proved worthwhile in practice. The Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively report in the plenary sessions on the content and results of the work carried out in the committees. In the run-up to the election of Supervisory Board members at the Annual General Meeting, on 11 May 2016, the Nomination Committee prepared the Supervisory Board’s nominations, convening once during the reporting year for this purpose. In looking for and evaluating suitable candidates with the requisite expertise and experience of the industry, long-term succession planning is a key factor. The Corporate Development Committee deals with the company’s strategic development, as well as with annual planning and finance, and technology issues. At four meetings in the year under review, it discussed in particular the areas of strategy controlling, production management and innovation, and – on an ongoing basis – looked at a number of major investments, which require the approval of the Supervisory Board. The development of particular product areas also figured on the agenda, as did tie-in measures during acquisitions and selected projects. The Committee examined in detail the current state of implementation of the afore-­ mentioned programme to increase efficiency and the progress of global production networking. Another point of focus was the business opportunities offered by digitalisation, which need to be monitored very closely. The heads of the relevant specialist departments took part in the committee meetings, along with the two members of the Board of Management. 12 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 The Personnel Committee held eight meetings in the year under review. It primarily addresses topics relating to the Board of Management’s remuneration, including the terms of the individual service contracts, as well as other Board of Management issues. Decisions on the Board of Management’s remuneration are made in plenary session with the committee acting in a preparatory capacity. In the year under review, the Committee also discussed staff development issues with the aim of ensuring that any need for action in terms of filling Board of Management positions and positions at the management level directly below the Board is identified at an early stage and followed up. The main focus of discussions was the preparation for major staffing decisions in the current year. Following the proposal of the Personnel Committee the Supervisory Board consented to the early resignation of Mr. Werner Stegmüller from the Board of Management – at his own request – effective 31 May 2017. As successor and additional member of the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board appointed Dr. Matthias Schmitz on 22 March 2017, initially for a term of office of three years from 1 June 2017 to 31 May 2020. The term of office of the long-standing member of the Board of Management and Human Resources Director, Dr. Peter Buthmann, was again extended, for six months until the end of 2017, to ensure adequate continuity on the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board approved that the age limit applicable to members of the Board of Management will be moderately exceeded. Additionally, the Committee monitored the internal developments within the company that aim at an increased participation of women in leadership roles. The four meetings of the Audit Committee in the year under review were always attended by a Member of the Board of Management and, on several occasions, by the auditors and the heads of the relevant departments. The Committee primarily discussed the 2015 annual and consolidated financial statements, as well as the corresponding audit reports prepared by the auditors. The Audit Committee also prepared the independent examination by the Supervisory Board of the financial statements, the management reports and the proposal on the appro­ priation of the net retained earnings. In addition, the 2015 half-year financial report was discussed with the Board of Management. Moreover the Committee presented a recommendation to the Supervisory Board for the election of the auditors at last year’s Annual General Meeting. It then assigned to the auditors the audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements for the 2016 financial year and specified the key audit areas. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (section 7.2.1) and the auditors’ continued independence was monitored. The Committee was also involved in monitoring the accounting process, the risk management system – taking into account the relevant reports from Internal Audits – and the effectiveness of the internal control and auditing system, including compliance. There was no requirement during the financial year under review to convene the Mediation Committee required by section 27(3) MitbestG [Mitbestimmungsgesetz – German Co-Determination Act]. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 13 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Supervisory Board continuously monitored developments in corporate governance standards throughout the financial year. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board ­report on corporate governance at KSB in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code as part of the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289 a HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. On 2 December 2016 they issued a joint updated statement of compliance in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktien­ gesetz – German Public Companies Act] and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. KSB Aktiengesellschaft complies with the Code’s recommen­ dations subject to a few justified exceptions. AUDIT OF THE 2016 ANNUAL AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2016, which were prepared in ­accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch [HGB – German Commercial Code], as well as the consolidated financial statements and the group management report for the year ended 31 December 2016, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), and the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings. The accounting documentation, in addition to the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings and the audit reports submitted by the auditors, was provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. The documents were examined in detail by the Audit Committee on 21 March 2017 as well as by the Supervisory Board plenary session on 22 March 2017 and explained in depth in both cases by the Board of Management. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Mannheim office of PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt, also audited the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2016, as well as the consolidated ­ nancial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2016, fi and issued an unqualified opinion. The key audit areas assigned to the auditor by the Audit 14 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 Committee for the year under review mainly included the recoverability of receivables, and the presence and measurement of finished products and work in progress in the inventory. The auditors reported on their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Following the final result of the examination by the Audit Committee and its own review, the Supervisory Board raised no ­objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board approved the financial statements prepared by the Board of Management; the annual financial statements are thus adopted. After its own examination, the Supervisory Board deems the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings of KSB Aktiengesellschaft, and in particular keeping the dividend at the same level as last year, to be appropriate and concurs with it. DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT The auditors also audited the dependent company report for the 2016 financial year prepared by the Board of Management in accordance with section 312 AktG and issued the following unqualified audit opinion on this report: “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that 1. The actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct. 2. The consideration paid by the company for the transactions listed in the report was not inappropriately high, or disadvantages were compensated.” The reports by the Board of Management and the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and at plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management and to the statement by the Board of Management at the end of the dependent company report. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 15 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo a rd CHANGES ON THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BOARD The planned resignation of Mr. Werner Stegmüller, the appointment of Dr. Matthias Schmitz as additional member of the Board of Management, and the renewed extension of the term of office of Dr. Peter Buthmann were already mentioned above. Mr. Günther Koch stepped down from the Supervisory Board with effect from the close of last year’s Annual General Meeting after serving for the regular term. The Annual General Meeting elected Dr. Stella Ahlers as his successor and member of the Supervisory Board and confirmed the appointment of Ms. Gabriele Sommer to this office, after she had been appointed by means of an order of the court. Dr. Martin Auer and Dr. Thomas Seeberg resigned from their office as members of the Supervisory Board with effect from 28 February 2017, with Dr. Seeberg also stepping down from his position as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Dr. A ­ hlers and Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann resigned from their office as members of the Supervisory Board with effect from the end of 20 March and 14 April 2017, respectively. Ms. M ­ onika Kühborth, Mr. O ­ swald Bubel and Dr. Bernd Flohr were appointed members of the Supervisory Board by order of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein on 21 March 2017 to replace the members who had stepped down prior to this date. At the meeting of the Supervisory Board on 22 March 2017, Dr. Flohr was elected Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The ­Supervisory Board would like to thank the members who have left the Board for their close cooperation. We also thank Dr. Seeberg for his prudent leadership over the past few years. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Board of Management, the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their continued constructive and committed work during the past financial year. Frankenthal, 22 March 2017 The Supervisory Board 16 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 A L O O K BACK AT 2016 Q1 Q2 SERVICE NEW PRODUCTION TRADE FAIR The new service workshop FACILITY At the IFAT in Munich KSB of the joint venture KSB KSB opens a new TRIODIS presents products for water ­Service LLC in Abu Dhabi production facility in La and waste water applications. is ­officially inaugurated. Roche-Chalais, France. The One of the highlights is the 54 employees are now rehigh-performance butterfly Amarex KRT pump featuring pairing KSB products and valves are used in the gas and an enhanced hydraulic sysSPAIN non-KSB brands in the crude oil sector as well as tem that delivers higher effiThe Spanish companies KSB workshop and also offer in the energy and chemical ciencies. Service Suciba, S.L.U. and ­services and spare parts. industries. KSB AMVI , S.A. complete an organisational merger with KSB ITUR Spain S.A. This measure is part of the global project for stream­ lining the structure of the Group. HYGIENIC PUMPS MAJOR VALVES ORDER CHINA 25 YEARS OF KSB HALLE KSB wins its largest contract KSB receives an order to KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. Employees in Halle celebrate to date in the Life Sciences equip a pulp mill in Finland starts production of large the 25th anniversary of the segment. The 122 pumps with over 11,000 valves and RDLO volute casing pumps KSB location. During the from various ranges will be four pumps from the HGC in a new manufacturing period following German used in Mexican breweries. range. The plant will be proarea. The production line is reunification, KSB took over ducing 1.3 million tonnes designed and structured the pump factory there and of softwood and birch pulp ­according to the principles developed it into a centre annually. of lean production. of competence for water and waste water technology. MONGOLIA KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. and Building’s Techno­logy LLC sign a cooperation agreement in order to boost sales of KSB products in Mongolia. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 17 A L ook Back Q3 Q4 ANNIVERSARY COOPERATION € 100 MILLION The Czech company KSBKSB and the South African CONTRACT Pumpy+ Armatury s.r.o., konSasol group sign a global December sees the Chinese-­ cern celebrates 25 years of framework agreement and German joint venture business. 44 employees are commit themselves to inten­Shanghai Electric-KSB win currently working for cussive collaboration. Based in a contract to supply pumps tomers in the Czech Republic. Johannesburg, the energy to two power plant units in OLYMPICS IN RIO and chemical company is one Zhangzhou. Delivery is due During the Olympic summer EXTENDED RANGE the world’s biggest manufacby 2021 and is worth € 100 games in Rio de Janeiro The Luxembourg-based subturers of synthetic fuels. million. KSB AG will supply around 100 KSB pumps are sidiary SISTO Armaturen S.A. components from Frankenin operation at the sports adds the new SISTO-­LAP 500 thal. venues and athletes’ accompneumatic actuator to its modation, taking care of the current range of actuators BUILDING SERVICES air-conditioning, drainage for valves. Fitted with two KSB launches the small close-­ and fire-fighting systems. pistons arranged in tandem, coupled pump Etaline L it is ideal for use with globe onto the market. The models E-COMMERCE and gate valves. round off the in-line pump KSB launches the sale of TOP RANKING range for building services Etabloc pumps for the ChiThe German business magaapplications. nese market via the Alibaba zine “brand eins” names KSB B2B platform. Further prodas one of the most innovative ucts follow, making KSB companies in the category the first global pump manu“Mechanical and plant engifacturer to tap this sales neering companies and channel. ­suppliers”. IMPROVED EFFICIENCY By December 1,300 measures FRANCE have been devised for the KSB S.A.S. in France is among ­Efficiency Improvement Prothe Group’s most productive gramme 10/10/10 and 70 % companies with the highest have been initiated. The prosales revenue. KSB marks gramme is scheduled to the 30th anniversary of the run until 2018 and aims to integration of Paris-based reduce material, staff and Pompes Guinard S.A. into overhead costs by € 200 milthe Group with a special lion. ­celebration. 18 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 EMPL OY EES The knowledge, ability, skills and engagement of our the performance of our young KSB employees before the ­employees are essential to our business success. We thereexamination board of the German Chamber of Industry fore strive to create a working environment in which and Commerce and the awards we received as an exemplary our employees can develop at a personal level, drive innotraining company. vation and perform at their best. This requires a leadership and management culture centred on trust, respect and In 2016 we invested € 6.7 million in vocational training in a commitment to performance. Germany alone, including equipment and machinery for three training workshops. COMPETITION FOR TALENT TAPPING OUR POTENTIAL In the context of fierce global competition for top personnel to fill specialist and executive roles, we seek to recruit exThe challenges our staff face are continually evolving. To ceptional individuals who can help us achieve our growth develop and expand their expertise and abilities, we offer targets. Our search for potential colleagues prepared to them task-oriented qualifications in engineering, business take on responsibility and contribute actively to the comadministration, IT and communication. pany extends worldwide. When selecting future employees, we look beyond their professional qualifications to assess 2016 saw the continuation of our internal distance-learning whether their interpersonal capabilities fit with us and our study programme to qualify staff as “Pump & Applications company’s culture. Professionals”. This one-year course is designed to strengthen and extend their knowledge of pumps and pumping appliWe use social media channels to reach out to potential applications. A related project saw us pilot a modular train-thecants, primarily via contact platforms such as LinkedIn and trainer programme with a group of technical experts which Xing. This enables us to connect with interesting candidates, sought to refine their ability to convey technical content in build networks and quickly fill vacant positions. a didactically and methodologically effective manner at ­internal seminars. To meet demand for specialist staff we have also developed our own vocational training programme focussing on practiAs part of a new concept, we adjusted our language training cal learning and a collaborative working culture. In the year to focus more on the practical requirements of the course under review, 57 trainees began their training in 18 vocational participants. Their needs were determined through a series occupations at our locations in Frankenthal, Halle and of interviews prior to the start of the course. In addition ­Pegnitz. 10 young people started a dual work / degree proto our classic training programmes, we introduced a webgramme to gain either a Bachelor of Engineering (mechanical based language learning system comprised of online learning engineering) or a Bachelor of Science (engineering science). modules, individual support from coaches and communi­ We are currently training a total of 233 young men and cation training. women. Managers worldwide are offered in-depth seminars in which In addition to technical knowledge and manual skills, it is they can assess and improve their social skills and approach also important to us that junior staff nurture a strong sense to leadership and management. In the year under review, of responsibility. The year under review saw KSB trainees our Chinese subsidiary KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. condemonstrate the social and environmental dimensions of this tinued the “Leadership Improvement” training programme responsibility by volunteering at animal shelters, assisting which was launched in 2015. 51 managers took advantage at care homes for the elderly and participating in charity of this opportunity to further develop their skills. runs. The success of our training activities is reflected in CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 19 E m pl oy ees Well qualified employees are committed to supporting our customers. An expert in Halle works on motor windings for submersible motor pumps (above). A warehouse logistics expert in Frankenthal ensures that all necessary components are sent to the production plant. A materials engineer in Pegnitz produces cores for pump impellers on a 3D polymer printer . 20 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 AWARD-WINNING HR Our European companies reduced their personnel most In a competition involving 800 companies in China, we ­significantly with 321 fewer employees, 160 from locations ­received two awards for the best HR team and the best HR in Germany. A marked decrease in staff numbers was also management. The jury of the largest HR media company implemented in the USA, with 157 fewer members of staff in China commended the HR department of KSB Shanghai being employed as at the reporting date when compared Pump Co., Ltd. on its exemplary early-retirement prowith the end of December 2015. gramme, culture of achievement and staff versatility. In particular, the HR team in China train personnel to work MOVING FORWARD MEANS in multiple areas. This enables our employees to operate EMBRACING CHANGE more flexibly within the company and improves their job security. Our HR personnel in China has developed a taiChange is a crucial part of life in that it makes development lored and transparent development programme in order to and growth possible. Whatever their title or position, achieve this goal. every individual in our company can strike new paths and inspire others. GLOBAL EMPLOYEE SURVEY The Board of Management would like to expressly thank In 2016 we conducted KSB Voice – our first global employee all employees who actively helped the company to assert engagement survey of around 11,000 members of staff ­itself in a difficult market environment in 2016. This applies at KSB ’s ten largest companies in Brazil, China, France, in particular to the development and implementation of Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, the Netherlands, South measures introduced in the course of our global efficiency ­Africa and the USA. At 79 percent, the response rate was improvement programme. The broad and open feedback well above average throughout the company. given via KSB Voice also provided important impetus for change. The feedback from our employees provided us with valuable reference points for improvement. It also indicated that Special thanks also goes to the works councils, the executive more than two thirds of employees surveyed are open to representatives and young employee representatives for changes within the company. supporting us with their constructive criticism. Together we will help KSB to move forward and achieve new successes. Employees and managers discussed the results and devised measures for improvement. Subsequent surveying of randomly selected employees is being planned in order to assess the extent to which the measures have already begun to take effect. DECREASE IN EMPLOYEE NUMBERS At the close of 2016, KSB employed 15,572 staff – 624 less than in 2015. This is the result of measures introduced to adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 21 E m pl oy ees C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity C ORPO RATE SOCIAL RESPON S I BI L I TY Our stated goal is to do business sustainably and responsibly. 2016 saw more than 5,000 members of staff complete We believe that in striving to achieve this goal, we can training on cartel / anti-trust law and corruption prevention. ­secure KSB’s long-term success while protecting the interests Using a global matrix of requirements, we ensure all perof people and the environment. This conviction was undersonnel with customer or supplier contact receive training lined in 2010 when KSB signed the UN Global Compact , on these topics. This helps participating staff to recognise committing itself to ten universal principles in the areas of and avoid risks and hazards in their day-to-day work. We human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-­ repeat this training at three-year intervals, with interim corruption. ­demand being met via additional training sessions every six months. The year under review saw us employ the materiality analysis process for the first time to analyse stakeholders’ interests In the event that employees become aware of infringements and define the sustainability topics most important for KSB. or are unsure of whether their actions are compliant, they The multi-stage process allowed us to identify priorities can refer the matter to the compliance organisation, and in the fields of business, environment and society (see infospecifically to the designated “Compliance Officer”. In graphic on page 22). ­addition, circumstances which give rise to legal or anti-trust concerns can be reported directly to an independent As areas with a high or very high priority for both stake­ombudsperson , who can process potential cases without holders and for KSB, these topics will represent the main naming informants. If reliable evidence is presented, then focus of our corporate social responsibility initiatives over this is pursued. the next few years. In terms of business, the key focus is on compliance, i.e. the degree to which a company and its Alongside a good reputation, a company’s future viability staff conform to applicable rules and regulations. Environis of essential importance for long-term success. We thus mental topics such as resource efficiency and energy-efficient continuously explore the potential impacts of new trends – products also have an economic dimension. In the social currently additive manufacturing and digitalisation – context, our company remains traditionally committed to on our business. In tackling these questions, we hope to excommunity issues and views education as a key priority ploit new markets and unlock potential business. Our for the future. KSB reports on the most important develop­Pegnitz factory currently employs specialised machinery ments in this section. to manufacture small components using selective laser melting . Production of larger components using this process is scheduled for 2018 at the latest. Further promising BUSINESS ­developments include connecting pumps, valves and other Customers and business partners alike expect KSB to act components to create integrated systems. Digitalisation with integrity on the global market. As a company we view promises to pave the way for new business models, and KSB compliance with legal regulations and Group guidelines as fully intends to play a leading role as this field develops. inherent to our corporate identity. As the actions of a single individual can seriously compromise the reputation of an Our customers demand the utmost in reliability from our entire company, we have developed a system which supports pumps and valves in order to avoid downtime and harm employee compliance by defining a core set of binding to individuals or the environment. KSB’s goal is thus to standards. These standards have been formalised into a e­ nsure the supply of reliable products in the long term. In Group-wide KSB Code of Conduct, and relevant training striving to meet this goal, all of our locations consistently has been provided. apply uniform quality standards. 22 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 K E Y S U S TA INA B ILIT Y TOPIC S FOR KSB Environment Society Business Very high Renewable energies Resource efficiency Respecting human rights Energy-efficient products Emissions Social responsibility Compliance Relevance for stakeholders Education Sustainability in the supply chain Product safety / reliability Recyclable products Occupational health and safety Equal opportunities Technology foresight High Very high Relevance for KSB ENVIRONMENT In the case of many new products, our engineers have Dealing responsibly with the natural environment is a key managed to achieve the best hydraulic efficiencies possible – task for our company. for example in a vertical high-pressure pump primarily intended for industrial processes. Thanks to innovative energy-­ In 2016, our locations completed more than 400 audits. saving drive technology, our latest submersible borehole These confirm that KSB Group companies meet mandatory pumps for water extraction applications consume less elecstandards of environmental protection, quality, and occupatricity than conventional equipment. tional health and safety. We also have our factories regularly certified according to internationally recognised manageWe also continue to cut back on the amount of raw materials ment systems. In the past financial year, this included impleand energy required to manufacture our products, allowing menting new provisions of the ISO 14001 environmental us to reduce costs and limit our impact on the environment. management system in 72 countries. In order to define and assess our savings goals, we docuOur customers benefit from efficient products characterised ment the consumption levels of our ten largest Group com­ by low energy consumption. The year under review saw us panies. This supports us in meeting targets such as a 10 % introduce numerous innovations, each contributing to our reduction in our CO2 emissions by 2020 measured against goal of adopting a responsible attitude to the use of natural their 2012 levels. We aim to reduce our consumption of resources. fresh water by 4 % over the same period. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 23 C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity Europe-wide energy audits were carried out in 2015 to pintally friendly travel options wherever possible. In 2016, point potential energy savings. The findings of the 18 analyour German staff alone travelled more than 500,000 kiloses completed so far have been incorporated into initial metres by train. measures implemented in the year under review and set to continue into the future. Many of our locations use renewable energies. We endeavour to exploit wind and solar power, especially when it comes We have also reduced energy consumption by fitting out our to the construction of new factories and buildings. In the buildings in Germany and France with external wall insu­ year under review we completed a project in India which lation, new windows and insulated roofs. High-efficiency ­allows us to generate electricity for an administration buildbulbs requiring less energy than conventional lighting sysing using a solar power system. tems are used throughout the company, and we have retrofitted most of our factories, administration buildings and When modernising plants, we switch to machinery which social facilities in Argentina, Germany, India and the USA meets the most stringent environmental standards. The with hi-tech LED lighting systems. new paint shop and spray booths which began operation in our French and South African factories in 2016 consume At KSB, close collaboration between different locations and less energy and produce lower emissions. countries is the norm. In order to keep travel costs down and minimise environmental impact, we continue to expand Production processes generate waste – something we want to our international video conference system. 2016 saw us limit as far as possible. We thus endeavour to save packag­increase the number of available video rooms to 72. 58 locaing material wherever we can, or at least to use eco-friendly tions in 25 countries can now benefit from these commu­ materials. Where waste cannot be avoided, we collect nication facilities. 170 members of staff also make use of ­materials like paper and metals so that they can be recycled. an individual video system. In total, some 16,000 screen We have already implemented a drastic cut in the use of conferences took place during the year under review. substances such as oils and solvents, reducing this by 18.4 % between 2012 and 2015. This means that our goal of cutIn cases where business travel cannot be replaced with teleting consumption of these materials by 20 % by 2020 has phone and video conferences, we seek to use environmenalmost been achieved already. OUR G OA L S CO2 emissions Fresh water consumption Hazardous substances –10 % –4% – 20 % 2012 – 2020 2012 – 2020 2012 – 2020 Savings goal defined: We aim to reduce our emissions of harmful CO 2 by 10 percent by 2020. Consumption of fresh water will be scaled back by 4 percent over the same period. We further plan to cut the use of substances such as oil and solvents by 20 percent. 24 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2016 SOCIETY elderly people. Various social institutions were provided We remain acutely aware of the social responsibility we bear with urgently needed equipment including a water treatment as a globally operating company. KSB is therefore comsystem and a solar-powered water heating system. KSB mitted to supporting social initiatives, with education being a also donated vehicles and a new kitchen, as well as building key focus. In Germany, we are one of the founding members an entrance with disabled access and additional sanitary of the Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland e.V. facilities. [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany] ini­tiative. Since 2005 we have agreed educational partnerships with In France we financed an aid project to set up a new classschools and kindergartens which seek to instil in children room for local children in the Republic of Niger and supa passion for science and technology from a young age. ported the construction of a well close to a remote village. KSB provided support in the form of materials for e­ xperiments and practical work. Two new partnerships with At Christmas time, it is traditional for KSB AG to make schools were added in 2016. donations to a number of charitable causes. One recipient in 2016 was an organisation which repairs deep well pumps For the fourth time, KSB hosted a regional competition in in Ivory Coast. We also supported schools and social projects Frankenthal under the banner “Schüler experimentieren – at our three largest German locations. Jugend forscht” [Pupils do experiments – Young people do research]. In Bayreuth we renewed our long-standing KSB’s company health management focuses not only on ­support for the event as a cooperation partner. As Europe’s preventing occupational injuries and illness, but also on largest competition for science and technology of this offering individually tailored preventive measures. In kind, it offers a platform for school pupils to present their ­Germany, these included skin cancer screening and a test research projects. for detecting cardiovascular disease. Many staff also took advantage of free flu vaccinations provided by KSB. In Mexico, our staff taught children about environmental topics and recycling. The project saw participants build a Reducing the risk of occupational accidents is one of our composter for the environmentally sound disposal of organic ongoing tasks with a focus on measures implemented in waste at the Mexican location. production areas. KSB also wishes to foster young people’s interest in business But ensuring a safe working environment is also important in and entrepreneurship. In Spain we supported an education other contexts. We therefore carry out an annual e-learning project in which our staff helped school pupils to implement course in Germany on health and safety in the office. In the their business ideas. At our Zarautz headquarters, the year under review, more than 2,000 members of staff took young “managers-to-be” had the chance to talk about their part in the course to develop their understanding of potential ambitions with local executives. And at our Halle factory, hazards and how these can be avoided. grammar school pupils learned about the daily working lives of KSB engineers as they implemented a logistics project As well as ensuring the safety of our staff, we also take into supported by KSB staff. account the well-being of our suppliers. To ensure the sustainability of our supply chain, we require that our suppliers We are also committed to long-term social developments not only maintain stringent environmental standards, but in the communities where we are based. In India, we supalso implement fair working conditions. In 2016 we assessed ported 15 charitable projects operating in the vicinity of our 28 % of our most important global suppliers with regard factories. These are mainly run by organisations seeking to environmental protection and occupational health and to provide aid for disabled, socially disadvantaged, sick and safety. This analysis will continue in 2017. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 25 C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity Diverse forms of engagement: KSB regularly organises the “Jugend forscht” [Young people do research] regional competition in Frankenthal, in which children and young adults present interesting projects (image above). In Niger we supported an aid project by building a well (image on the left). We have renovated our company buildings to reduce energy requirements, as pictured here in Halle (image on the right). 26 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 2 G R O W I N G W I T H WAT E R G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT GROWING WITH WATER 28 Facts & Figures 30 Water Supply Cycle 32 Water Extraction C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 36 Water Treatment 40 Water Transport 44 Water Use 48 Waste Water G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 28 9 billion is the predicted world population for the year 2040. With the scarcity of water posing a very real threat, it is vital that we find better ways to harness existing resources, for example by recycling waste water and harvesting rainwater more extensively. 4/5 G RO W I N G of all waste water worldwide is still discharged into rivers, lakes and the sea without being treated. W I T H WAT ER 55%is the magnitude by which global water demand is predicted to increase by 2050 – especially in industry and households. CONSOLIDATED M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 29 Facts & Figure s 2,200 cubic kilometres of water are likely to be needed worldwide in 2025 for agri­ cultural production – the sector with the greatest global consumption. By the year 2050 agriculture will need to produce 60 % more food, in developing countries as much as 100 %. The market for water and waste water shows a clear growth trend and there are many reasons for this. Two major factors are the growing world population and advancing urbanisation, which are both placing higher demands on the supply of fresh water and waste water treatment. Projects for the construction and modernisation of water engineering plants are therefore being planned in many coun­ tries around the world. KSB is increasing its involvement in such infrastructure projects through a host of specific regional measures. In addition to a series of sales initiatives and structural changes, we are also tailoring individual product ranges to the needs of the market, improving our logistics and investigating new business models. A key focus region for KSB is the Middle East / Africa. 400% is the percentage by which global water consumption in industry is expected to increase between the year 2000 and 2050 – more than in any other area. A sharply rising level of demand can be seen in developing and emerging countries. 30 I N N O VAT I V E TECHNOLOGY FOR T H E CO M P L E T E WAT E R S U P P LY C YC L E 3 W AT E R T R A N S P O R T 2 W AT E R T R E AT M E N T 1 W AT E R E X T R A C T I O N CONSOLIDATED M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 31 Wate r S upply Cycle 4 W AT E R U S E 5 W A S T E W AT E R T R E AT M E N T Providing fresh, clean water every day is a growing challenge for the water supply industry. KSB is on hand to provide support in the form of pumps and valves for the complete water supply cycle. Our products are used for extracting water from wells and water bodies, treat­ ment processes in waterworks, transporting water to consumers, on-site applications and subsequent purification processes. Our innovative technology, sustainable solutions and 146 years of experience and expertise makes KSB the first choice for countless customers world­ wide – from New York or Qatar to the south coast of Brazil. Read on to find out how and where our products are currently being used. 32 CONSOLIDATED M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 33 Wate r E xtraction 1 wat e r e x t r a c t i o n Water is precious. To enable us to access it, high-performance submersible borehole pumps are deployed in wells and waterworks. They also play an important role in the refurbishment of municipal piping systems in cities around the globe. 34 NEW YORK O U T S TA N D I N G P E R F O R M A N C E I N T H E M E G A C I T Y More than half of New York’s drinking water is conveyed to the city via the Rondout-West Branch Tunnel. Measuring 71 kilometres in length, it supplies up to 37 cubic metres of drinking water per second from Ulster County via a natural incline. As a result of geological conditions, the tunnel was losing up to 130 million litres of drinking water a day through leaks under the Hudson River. To enable the tunnel to be pumped empty for repairs in as short a time as possible, KSB supplied the most powerful single-entry submersible borehole pumps that our company has ever produced. The pumps are made from corrosion-resistant stainless steel. Each of the five pump sets is equipped with a 2,000-kilowatt electric motor and handles around 2,000 cubic metres per hour. G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 35 BSF SUBMERSIBLE BOREHOLE PUMP Pumps like this were used to empty the Rondout-West Branch Tunnel in New York. 36 CONSOLIDATED M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 37 Wate r Tre a tme nt 2 wat e r t r e at m e n t Producing drinking water often requires mechanical and biological treatment. Large volumes of water also need to be transported. Our pumps and valves ensure that water is efficiently pumped to the water treatment plants. Operators attach great importance to a high level of reliability and low maintenance. 38 SÃO PAULO W AT E R F O R 1 . 2 M I L L I O N P E O P L E For decades the shortage of water has been an existential problem for the Santos area of Brazil, located on the south coast of the São Paulo state. In order to meet the increased demand for drinking water, the government decided to extend the existing system and use the Branco river as an additional resource. The extension included a dam, pumping stations for raw and drinking water as well as a treatment plant. KSB supplied large volute casing and propeller pumps for the project. Comprising 66 kilometres of water pipes, the improved water supply system now serves 1.2 million people in five cities. G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 39 R D L O W AT E R T R A N S P O RT P U M P RDLO pumps ensure safe and reliable water transport worldwide. 40 CONSOLIDATED M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 41 Wate r Tra nsport 3 wat e r t r a n s p o r t In many regions, transporting water from the place of extraction to consumers’ locations entails bridging great distances. Particularly in countries located in the Middle East, this requires long water pipelines with pumping stations installed along the way. KSB valves with diameters of up to four metres are used to shut off sections of piping for inspection and maintenance purposes. 42 QATAR D E S E RT S TAT E BU I L D S G I A N T W AT E R R E S E RVO I R In Qatar the world’s largest artificial water reservoir system is currently under construction. It will collect the water produced by two large seawater desalination plants. In the first phase of the project, the utility company responsible is building 24 concrete reservoirs, each as large as nine football pitches, with a total capacity of around 10 million cubic metres. A 650-kilometre-long system of large-diameter pipelines connects the reservoirs. KSB is supplying maintenance-free butterfly valves which will ensure smooth operation for many years. G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 43 M A M M O U T H BU T T E R F LY VA LV E 165 large butterfly valves will control the flow of water in Qatar’s pipelines in future. 44 CONSOLIDATED M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 45 Wate r Use 4 wat e r u s e Pumps in operation in industry, agriculture and municipalities ensure that water reaches the consumers. Households around the world need drinking water every day. If the available water pressure is not sufficient, for example on the top floors of tall buildings, the solution is pressure boosting. KSB pumps make sure that water flows right up to the top of the building, even in skyscrapers. 46 HANOI E N E R G YE F F I C I E N T P R E S S U R E B O O S T I N G F O R 4 0 S TO R E Y BU I L D I N G In addition to commercial units, the Thang Long Number One building complex includes over 1,000 apartments. The new buildings feature a green architectural design and are based on the principle of smart living. The centrepiece of the complex comprises two 40-storey skyscrapers with 200,000 square metres of floor space. They are among the tallest buildings in the Vietnamese capital. Transporting water to this height requires serious pumping power – which KSB pumps routinely deliver. Pump sets with low noise emissions and outstanding efficiencies are in operation here in Hanoi. Thanks to their vertical design, they have a small footprint, leaving more space for comfortable modern living. G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 47 M OV I T E C Vertically installed Movitec VCF pumps ensure that sufficient drinking water is available even on the top floors of skyscrapers. 48 CONSOLIDATED M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 49 Waste Wate r 5 wa s t e wat e r Wherever water is used, it always needs to be cleaned afterwards. Only then can it be returned to the natural water cycle without harming the environment. This is one of the main reasons why waste water pumping stations collect the used water and transport it to waste water treatment plants for purification. KSB products perform important tasks in water transport and treatment processes. 50 ST. PETERSBURG E U R O P E ’ S D E E P E S T W A S T E W AT E R P U M P I N G S TAT I O N Far below the city of St. Petersburg, Russia, Europe’s deepest waste water pumping station is located beneath the ground at a depth of 92 metres. Rainwater and waste water from a twelve-kilometre tunnel system is collected here. The system is designed to prevent the untreated mix of stormwater and sewage from flowing into the Baltic Sea during heavy rain. Large submersible motor pumps from KSB transfer the waste water from a depth of 92 metres into a channel from which it flows by gravity to the waste water treatment plant. Since the commissioning of the pumping station, virtually all waste water from St. Petersburg has been consis­tently and continuously treated. The city now fulfils the environmental standards agreed between the countries bordering on the Baltic Sea. G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 51 A M A R E X K RT Submersible motor pumps from the Amarex KRT range handle the disposal of waste water deep below ground. 52 BOA-COMPACT EKB Compact valve for use in drinking water systems CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 3  G ROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 54 Basic Principles of the Group 54 Group Business Model 55 Control System 56 Research and Development 57 Economic Review 57 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 59 Business Development and Results of Operations 63 Financial Position and Net Assets 66 Summary of the Board of Management 66 Dependent Company Report 67 Report on Expected Developments 70 Opportunities and Risks Report 82 Acquisition-related Disclosures 83 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 289 a of the HGB) 84 Remuneration of the Board of Management G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 54 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT BA SI C PRINC IPLES OF THE G RO UP tion that is structured according to responsibilities for product GROUP BUSINESS MODEL groups, corporate functions and regions. The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related All organisational units act with the aim of ensuring sustainsystems. We also provide a wide range of service offerings to able, profitable growth that will secure both KSB’s financial users of these products. ­independence and its mediumand long-term future. Management is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting of KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany, as the parent company, twelve members. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies beappoints six members of the Supervisory Board, with the longing to the Group. Besides it, 9 domestic and 79 foreign ­remaining six being delegated by the employees under the terms companies are fully consolidated; 6 other companies are of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination ­accounted for under the equity method. KSB is currently Act]. represented in over 40 countries with its own subsidiaries. The KSB Group organises its business activities in three segBesides KSB AG itself, the companies in the KSB Group with ments based on product groups: Pumps, Valves and Service. the highest sales revenue are The Pumps segment covers singleand multistage pumps, and associated control and drive systems. Applications are indusKSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France try (manufacturing, chemical / petrochemical, transport), energy KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China supply, water transport and waste water treatment, construcGIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA tion / building services and the hydraulic transport of solids in KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India mining. The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, conKSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany trol, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil and control systems. The applications for these products are KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan, Italy essentially identical to those for pumps. The Service segment covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, Our basic business model has not changed during the year servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems under review. External economic and political changes, howand valves for all these applications, as well as modular serever, have had a partial effect on our business. These are – vice concepts and system analyses for complete systems. where relevant and material to KSB – described in the following sections. MARKETS AND LOCATIONS Within the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for around OR G A N I S AT I O N, M A NAGEM ENT AND C ONTR OL two thirds of sales revenue. These pumps, as well as valves, KSB AG ’s Board of Management manages and controls the are sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, KSB Group. This body formed of two persons is assisted in in some cases, distributed via dealers. The same applies to operational decisions by a management team of senior execucontrol and monitoring systems, and to package units with tives. Managers and employees implement the strategy and pumps and valves. instructions of the Board of Management within an organisaThe best developed sales market for these products is Europe, where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities in CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 55 Ba sic P ri n c i pl e s o f th e Gro u p Group B u si n e ss Mo de l Control S yste m G ­ ermany and France. KSB AG’s main plant in Frankenthal CONTROL SYSTEM is its largest in Europe, ahead of the production sites in Pegnitz (Bavaria) and Halle (Saxony-Anhalt) in Germany, and La Based upon our matrix organisation, we determine our key Roche-­Chalais in France. ­financial performance indicators as follows: The second-largest market for KSB products is the Region Management decisions are taken primarily on the basis of Asia, followed by the Region Americas / Oceania and the Region the key indicators that are determined for the Pumps, Valves Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest manu­ and Service segments: order intake, sales revenue and the facturing plants are in Brazil, China, India and the USA. ­operating result (i.e. earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) excluding the effects from measuring construction contracts KSB manufactures products and components in a total of 16 in accordance with IAS 11). For further information on these countries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies key indicators see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their products, Statements, section VIII. Segment Reporting. the Group companies serve customers in industry including the chemical and petrochemical industries, customers in the In addition, we take the earnings before income taxes (EBT), energy and construction / building services sectors, transport pre-tax return on sales and net financial position into considequipment manufacturers and operators (e.g. ships, rail vehieration for controlling the Group as a whole. The pre-tax cles), water and waste water utilities, and mining companies. ­return on sales describes the ratio between the earnings before Once again in 2016, the top-selling markets for our products income taxes (EBT) and the sales revenue; net financial posiwere the industrial and energy supply sectors. tion is the balance of financial liabilities and interest-bearing financial assets (current and non-current financial instruIn order to be able to offer our products at favourable prices, ments, interest-bearing loans, cash, and receivables from cash we combine the Group’s purchasing requirements and source deposits). When specifying and evaluating these key indicaaffordable suppliers around the world who meet our quality tors, we are guided on the one hand by developments in the standards. The focus is currently upon Asian companies. We market, and on the other by the performance of our key are able to maintain our market position as one of the leading competitors. pump and valve manufacturers through our good and longterm relationships with our customers and suppliers. Our highly We do not consult any non-financial performance indicators trained and motivated employees as well as the high quality for controlling the Group and for making decisions regarding of our products have also helped cement our reputation. management issues. 56 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT h­ ydraulic and electronic systems opens up approaches for RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ­services of the kind that our customers expect in the context KSB provides pumps and valves for a broad range of technical of Industry 4.0 . applications. Diverse activities for the development of KSB’s own products and refinement of its existing products form the In terms of material research, we tested and explored the use basis of our long-term success. In 2016 we again made use of new materials for sealing elements and plain bearings. This of our research and development capacity at our centres in involved intensive cooperation with external organisations Europe, Asia and the USA. Our expenses in this area totalled and institutions of higher education, making important steps approximately € 51 million for the year under review. This forward in extending the service life of these components. equates to about 2 % of our sales revenue. Our work was focused on hydraulics and materials techno­ logy, as well as automation and drives. We also looked at the smart networking of pumps, valves and motors. Linking Innovative manufacturing method: Laser melting allows the production of highly complex metal components which are built up layer by layer. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 57 Ba sic P ri n c i pl e s o f th e Gro u p Re se a rc h an d De v e l o pm e n t E conom i c R e v i e w Macroec o n o m i c En v i ro n m e n t an d S e c to r Vi e w E C O N O MIC R EVIEW MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND The economy in the industrialised countries grew only slightSECTOR VIEW ly year on year, up by 1.6 %. The moderate recovery in the euro zone, KSB’s most important sales market, continued. The Global economic growth remained subdued in 2016. The single-currency area’s gross domestic product grew by 1.7 %, ­increase of a mere 3.1 % was weaker than forecast by the although structural problems in some member states hammajority of economic research institutes. The International pered any stronger push forward. Monetary Fund (IMF), whose forecast provided the basis for our planning, also proved to have been overly optimistic, LACK OF GROWTH IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING ­predicting 3.4 % growth in GDP. In the industrialised nations, Global sales revenue from the mechanical engineering sector economic development became markedly less dynamic durstagnated in 2016. According to figures from the VDMA, of ing the reporting year. In contrast, the emerging markets and which KSB is a member, demand for investment goods was too developing countries were able to more or less maintain the weak to trigger even a low level of growth. While increases same rate of growth. were indeed in evidence in some emerging markets in Asia, sales in the mechanical engineering sectors in Europe and Consistently weak levels of demand for energy and raw the USA were down on the previous year. ­materials, as well as unfavourable economic data from China, were key factors in what were far from satisfactory economic Sales revenue in Germany, as well as in France and Italy, developments overall. Political crises, both new and emerging, ­remained at prior-year levels. According to the VDMA, comalso contributed to the state of the economy, impacting on panies were able to use successes in Europe and on many global willingness to invest on the part of private companies smaller markets to offset some major falls in business, particuand, in the countries hit by these crises, also government larly in relation to operations in Brazil, China and the USA. ­institutions. Sales revenues recorded by liquid pump and industrial valve producers in Germany were considerably weaker than for Some three quarters of the modest growth recorded during the the mechanical engineering sector as a whole. In the pumps reporting year can be attributed to the world’s emerging business, they declined by 6.0 %, with valves falling by 3.1 % economies, with significant growth in Asia, where KSB has year on year. major production companies in China and India. Growth on the Chinese market, however, actually slowed. There was RISING DEMAND IN THE WATER INDUSTRY also a shift in growth from the industrial sector to services, Among the main sales markets for pumps and valves, the water as reported by the German Engineering Federation (VDMA). and waste water sectors displayed the most stable growth. In In two other BRIC countries, namely Brazil and Russia, we the emerging economies with growing populations and rising continued to find ourselves in a recessionary market environstandards of living, investments in the construction of new ment with our range of products and services. South Africa, water infrastructures were a key focus. Wells, treatment plants the location of a significant KSB sales and production com­ and pumping stations are all being built, as well as municipal pany for the region, failed to record any appreciable growth and industrial waste water systems. These applications require in 2016. pumps for wet and dry installation, mixers for sedimentation tanks, and butterfly valves. Market conditions in the construction sector were also favourable, benefiting our products 58 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT WOR L D M A R K E T O F C ENT R IFU GA L PU MPS A ND VA LVES In the energy sector, new power plants were only being planned and built on a very limited scale. To this extent, there was Middle East /Africa 12.1% no let-up in the poor order levels affecting plant engineering contractors. For their part, they then only had a handful Asia 35.7% of orders to place with suppliers of components such as high-­ Europe 24.7% pressure pumps and valves. At the same time, fierce compe­ tition meant that some of these orders were not financially attractive. One exception was equipment for nuclear power Americas / Oceania 27.5% stations, an area in which price pressure is not so acute and in which plans are in the pipeline, both in Asia and in Europe, for some new projects. Source: KSB estimate (February 2017), European Industrial Forecasting Generally weak business activity in industry across the globe also manifested itself in the manufacturing sector. Demand used in pressure boosting, heating, ventilation and air-condipicked up in only a handful of countries, among them India. tioning, and also drainage and garden technology products. Overall, however, it fell short of expectations, even in Asia. Boosted by low interest rates, the construction boom continued. COMPETITORS TURN TO RESTRUCTURING In most other fields of application for our pumps and valves, Given the weak demand in the sectors mentioned, coupled with demand either stagnated or fell further compared with 2015. currency-related reductions, global pump and valve manu­ This is particularly true of the oil and gas industry, which facturers were often forced to accept dramatic falls in order was hit hard by low energy and commodity prices. In contrast, intake. Their response to the market difficulties and decline the mining sector experienced a slight improvement, with in business was, in some cases, to introduce restructuring proprices for some minerals making up ground again. The oilgrammes. As in the case of KSB, these targeted large savings. pro­cessing industry and gas producers only began to profit from slight price increases towards the end of the year, which Where a national market proved particularly difficult, indimeant that no additional projects were initiated during the vidual pump and valve producers also took steps to reduce year under review. Similarly, the transport of liquefied gas by their local production and sales capacity. This was particularly tankers, which we fit with cryogenic valves, was a sector still relevant in Brazil in 2016, with several companies cutting dominated by overcapacity. There was a general lack of new back their activities substantially. shipbuilding, with replacement investments being kept to a minimum. In particular in the oil-producing countries, the In light of the small number of large-scale orders to be placed, slump also had an effect on secondary sectors; public invessome suppliers were willing to grant larger discounts in order tors lacked the funds for major projects. to put their production capacity to good use. Consequently, pricing pressure in relation to projects from industry and the energy sector continued unabated. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 59 E conom i c R e v i e w Macroec o n o m i c En v i ro n m e n t an d S e c to r Vi e w Busine ss De v e l o pm e n t an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s on profit performance in the year under review. For the Group, BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND this amounted to around € 50 million, while worldwide RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ­savings were broadly similar in amount. Order intake and sales revenue remained down on prior-year levels. In the 2016 financial year, we focused to a greater extent than before on meeting the needs of those customers who are ORDER INTAKE ­already using our products. The strategy of offering these At € 2,156.6 million, the KSB Group’s volume of incoming ­customers our services, replacement pump sets, and additional orders was down € 104.6 million on 2015. We had begun the pumps and valves proved very successful. In addition, we year still expecting to see a clear improvement in order in­focused on sales of our standard products, developing new take, anticipating several large-scale assignments in the power distribution concepts specifically for our successful Eta in­ plant sector. However, the decisions on the award of these dustrial pump series. contracts were delayed. The situation with regard to project business remained difficult, The 4.6 % decrease can be attributed to weak levels of demand with fierce pricing competition continuing to affect orders to in key customer segments, in particular the energy industry, fit out power plants and petrochemical facilities. Consequently, but is also due to significant negative currency exchange effects. we continued to shift our power plant pump activities to The conversion to our Group currency, the euro, resulted in Asia in order to be closer to our customers and also to cut our r­ eductions of around € 51 million. Fluctuations in the exchange manufacturing costs. In the oil and gas sector, and in petrorates between the euro and the Argentine peso, the Chinese chemicals, we took advantage of our global production netyuan and the South African rand had a particularly strong work in order to be able to bid at the prices demanded by impact. the market. Nevertheless, the number of new projects was very limited for the reasons outlined above. Developments in Europe (– 5.2 %) and Americas / Oceania (– 8.4%) were primarily responsible for the decline in orders In order to bring our cost structure into line with the changed received, although the companies in the Region Middle East / market conditions, we launched our efficiency improvement Africa also faced a downward trend (– 3.0%). In Asia (+ 0.5 %), programme in 2016. This programme is designed to cover a order intake was on a par with the previous year overall. three-year period, during which time we will use a variety of ­Order levels posted by KSB Aktiengesellschaft, at – 3.7 %, held global and regional measures to make cuts of around € 200 up more strongly than in the Group as a whole. Our German million overall to our material, staff and overhead costs. Key parent company recorded new orders totalling € 751.8 million, focuses of this programme include a reduction in our produca figure boosted by an increase in orders from existing custion sites and the merger of smaller companies. As far as tomers for service support, spare parts and new products. ­purchasing is concerned, we will be using dedicated supplier events and online auctions to help to reduce our material Pumps costs. The reduction in staffing levels also associated with Order intake in the Pumps segment, totalling € 1,386.6 million, 1,300 different measures will be carried out in a socially was down € 65.8 million on the previous year and therefore ­responsible manner. With this in mind, we have rescheduled did not grow “significantly” as expected. The year-on-year the end date of some measures to beyond the target year of change, at – 4.5 %, more or less corresponded to the overall 2018. ­development of new orders received by the Group. The difficult situation in the Middle East, economic problems in Brazil As predicted, the restructuring costs associated with the proand Russia, and a change in the focus of government investgramme and additional one-off costs had a negative impact ments in China all contributed to the decline in pump orders. 60 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Overall, the order situation in relation to pumps for the mining Service sector improved on the previous year, reacting to the signs In our Service segment, we failed to achieve the predicted of recovery mentioned above. However, the decline in orders “moderate” growth, with an order intake of € 438.8 million. received by our companies from the energy, chemicals / petroTotal orders for service support and related spare parts were chemicals and transport sectors was sharper, and overall more € 2.0 million or 0.5 % down on the previous year. significant to our business. We recorded positive growth rates through our service business The sale of pumps to the construction industry in Europe was in East and South-East Asia, particularly China and Indonesia, one specific area that developed positively. In addition to and in the Region Middle East / Africa. In Europe, our tradi­increased sales in circulator pumps, new compact lifting units tionally strong service business in Germany continued to be also contributed to this upward development. In India, above impaired by the shut-down of nuclear power plants. Growing all the level of new orders from the water industry was gratibusiness in mobile valve service for industrial customers parfying. Having revamped our range of well pumps, we saw tially offset this negative trend. Overall, however, the companies the first signs of sales success in this field. in Germany recorded a clearly negative figure. In contrast, French service business posted a positive performance, also Valves buoyed by framework agreements with large companies. In the Valves segment, orders received in 2016 totalled € 331.2 million. Rather than stagnating, as expected, this meant that In the Americas, the value of our service orders was down on order intake fell by € 36.8 million or 10.0 %. the previous year, not least due to the continued decline in the mining sector. In South America, business in Argentina in The key factor responsible for this decline was the renewed particular developed very positively. This is not reflected in drop in demand for cryogenic valves that we supply worldthe Group’s order intake figures, however, due to the change wide for liquefied gas tankers and terminals. In light of the in the peso / euro exchange rate. difficulties facing the oil and gas industry, shipping companies were being exceptionally cautious with regard to any plans SALES REVENUE to modernise or expand their fleets of tankers. Like the Pumps Consolidated sales revenue fell strongly year on year, totalling segment, the Valves business also reflected that the energy € 2,165.7 million. This represents a decrease of € 169.2 mil­industry was holding back from the construction of new inlion or 7.2 % compared with 2015. We had been expecting to stallations and thus from placing any purchase orders. This see a “significant” decline in the figures. € 49 million of the reticence impacted on new orders for high-pressure globe, gate decrease can be attributed to changes in exchange rates. Their and butterfly valves. With production capacity frequently impact reduced the sales revenue figures reported by several ­being under-utilised, industry, in particular chemicals and petro­ companies after the conversion into the Group currency, the chemicals, was another sector that did little to stimulate euro. We recorded falling sales revenue across all regions: ­demand. ­Europe (– 7.4 %), Middle East / Africa (– 2.5 %), Asia (– 4.8 %) and Americas / Oceania (– 10.8 %). In Europe, KSB AG gen­ In contrast, business with pipeline valves for use in water erated sales revenue of € 760.6 million, which equates to a supply systems developed very positively. Indeed, we expanded decrease of 7.7 %. our market share in this sector, helped not least by our introduction of butterfly valves with diameters of up to 2 metres Pumps capable of withstanding pressures of up to 40 bar in either In our Pumps segment, in which we once again achieved flow direction. In the construction sector, orders for our valves around two thirds of consolidated sales revenue in 2016, there continued to be supported by the construction boom, itself was, as expected, a significant decline in sales revenue, down triggered by low interest rates, and our sales figures were able by € 85.5 million to € 1,428.5 million. This represents a deto grow. crease of 5.6 %. All four regions were affected. Waning CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 61 E conom i c R e v i e w Busine ss De v e l o pm e n t an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s €2.17 ­demand in earlier years for feed pumps for fossil-fuelled power plants had a particularly strong impact. However, the lull that has been in evidence in the oil and gas industry, as well as in mining, for several years now, with negative fall-out for other sectors, has long been hampering investment to the exbillion tent that there were fewer pump orders for large-scale projects during the past financial year. Consolidated sales revenue in 2016 Valves Similarly to order intake development, our Valves segment ­experienced the strongest decline in sales revenue in percentage EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES (EBIT) terms. Sales revenue for globe valves, gate valves, butterfly The KSB Group achieved earnings before interest and taxes valves and other valve types fell significantly (and not “sub(EBIT), excluding the effects from measuring construction stantially” as expected), down by € 23.8 million or 6.2 % to contracts in accordance with IAS 11, of € 102.9 million (pre€ 360.8 million. The decline in orders was particularly marked vious year: € 101.9 million). The Pumps segment contributed in the case of butterfly and diaphragm valves. In China and EBIT of € 60.9 million (previous year: € 55.4 million). This South Korea, weaker demand for butterfly valves in the marine means that the forecast (of a substantial decline) made in the sector was the main factor impacting on sales revenue. previous year’s report did not materialise. As predicted, EBIT fell substantially in the Valves segment, totalling € 8.8 million Service (previous year: € 10.3 million). EBIT for the Service segment Sales revenue in our Service segment, at € 416.5 million, also declined substantially (and not moderately, as planned) ­almost matched the previous year with, as anticipated, a slight to € 33.3 million (previous year: € 36.2 million). The reconincrease of € 2.9 million (+ 0.7 %). This meant that we ciliation effect from the measurement of construction conslightly exceeded the prior-year level in our most important tracts under IAS 11 to EBIT changed by € – 18.1 million year market, namely Europe. In addition, our companies in the on year. Region Middle East / Africa reported strong increases. This growth was, however, offset by the market-driven downward TOTAL OUTPUT OF OPERATIONS movement in the Americas and in some Asian countries. In The above-mentioned decrease in sales revenue is also reflected China, where we actually recorded above-average growth, in a lower total output of operations, totalling € 2,174.2 a major focus was on the modernisation of power plants. ­million compared with € 2,350.3 million in the previous year. Work in progress and inventories of finished goods increased by € 2.9 million, and thus by € 7.8 million less than in the previous year. In contrast, other work performed and capitalised S AL E S R E V E N U E B Y S E GMENT rose by € 0.9 million. INCOME AND EXPENSES Service 19 % Other income declined from € 50.0 million to € 47.2 million, partly due to lower income from the reversal of provisions Pumps 64% no longer required. Valves 17 % The cost of materials fell by 10.8 % and thus more strongly than total output of operations. In percentage terms, the cost of materials (€ 874.2 million) decreased from 41.7 % in 62 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT the previous year to 40.2 % in the year under review. This EARNINGS can also be attributed to first successes of our efficiency imThe KSB Group generated earnings before income taxes provement programme. (EBT) of € 74.6 million, compared with € 93.4 million in 2015. This means that the previous year’s forecast of a substantial Staff costs fell by 2.5 % to € 798.8 million. In relation to tofall in earnings due to one-off costs was accurate. Correspondtal output of operations, however, this represented an increase ingly, the return on sales before tax decreased from 4.0 % ­ of 1.8 percentage points. Key factors were a lower number in the previous year to 3.5 %, also confirming our expectaof employees on the one hand, and collectively agreed salary tions outlined in the previous year. The income tax rate was increases on the other. Compared with 2015, the number of down, due to such factors as the reduced scope of non-tax-­ employees fell by 624, taking the total figure at the end of the effective impairments on goodwill. The rate was 36.0 %, comreporting year to 15,572. The European companies reported pared with 44.1 % in 2015. Earnings after income taxes, ­ the biggest fall with a reduction of 321 staff, 160 of whom had at € 47.8 million (previous year: € 52.2 million) were down been employed at the Group’s German sites. Employee num8.4 % and therefore did not fall as sharply as earnings before bers were also markedly down in the Americas with 157 fewer income taxes (EBT) (20.1 %). people working for KSB on the reporting date compared €74.6 with the end of December 2015. This development is the result of measures introduced to bring our cost structures into ­­ line with new market conditions. The KSB Group employed on average 401 fewer people than in the previous year. Based on the significantly lower total output of operations and simultaneous decrease in the number of employees, the avermillion age output per employee fell from € 144 thousand in the previous financial year to € 137 thousand. Consolidated earnings (EBT) in 2016 The ratio of other expenses to total output of operations fell from 17.5 % to 17.1 %. In absolute terms, this means a change from € 411.5 million to € 372.4 million, attributable Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests were up from to falling sales costs, lower administrative expenses and a € 12.9 million to € 14.9 million. This can be attributed to lower level of third-party services. ­improved contributions to earnings from our Asian companies. Relative to earnings after income taxes, there was therefore Financial income / expense deteriorated by € 5.1 million. This a change from 24.7 % to 31.0 %. is primarily a reflection of the lower income from investments accounted for using the equity method. Based on the The earnings attributable to shareholders of KSB AG (€ 32.9 contribution to income from our Chinese joint venture million) were € 6.4 million lower than in the previous year ­included in this item, we reported expenses totalling € 1.3 (€ 39.3 million). million. This compares with income of € 4.4 million in ­ the previous year. Earnings per ordinary share were € 18.68, compared with € 22.30 in the previous year, and € 18.94 per preference share, compared with € 22.56 in 2015. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 63 E conom i c R e v i e w Busine ss De v e l o pm e n t an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s Financi al Po si ti o n an d Ne t Asse ts Other provisions for employee benefits, which are predomiFINANCIAL POSITION AND NET ASSETS nantly current, only changed slightly and total € 86.9 million F INA N C I A L P O S I T I O N (previous year: € 88.8 million). The financial position of the KSB Group remains as solid as ever, as evidenced by a consistently high equity ratio. The picture with regard to other provisions, which we created almost exclusively for current uncertain liabilities, is more Equity or less stable (€ 99.6 million compared with € 100.8 million in The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 890.3 million (previous 2015). Increased provisions for restructuring in conjunction year: € 870.2 million). This includes KSB AG’s subscribed with our efficiency improvement programme offset a decline in capital of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. The capital miscellaneous other provisions. reserve remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. Revenue reserves total € 614.2 million (previous year: € 609.1 million), 37.9% including the proportion of earnings after taxes attributable to shareholders of KSB AG of € 32.9 million (previous year: € 39.3 million). € 164.6 million (previous year: € 149.6 ­million) is attributable to non-controlling interests. Given that the increase in equity (+ 2.3 %) more or less corresponds to the rise in total assets (+ 2.6 %), the equity ratio remained constant (37.9 %; previous year: 38.0 %). The non-controlling interests mainly relate to the following Equity ratio in 2016 companies: KSB Pumps Limited, India; GIW Industries, Inc., USA; KSB America Corporation, USA and KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., China. Non-current financial liabilities decreased by € 75.5 million to € 58.0 million. This can be attributed to the reclassification Liabilities of the € 74.5 million tranche of the loan against borrower’s The largest item under liabilities continues to be provisions for note due in 2017. Based on our current information, no employee benefits, including, also as the largest item, pension ­external financing measures will be required for repayment. provisions, which were up by € 63.5 million to € 589.5 million We placed this loan with a total volume of € 122 million at as at the reporting date primarily as a result of the lower disthe 2016 year end back in 2012. It is divided into repayment count rate for the German pension plans. A large number of tranches of 3 to 10 years. the pension plans currently in place in the KSB Group are ­ efined benefit models. We will be reducing the associated risks, d Current liabilities increased overall by € 54.9 million (€ 613.5 such as demographic changes, inflation and salary increases, million compared with € 558.6 million at the 2015 year for example by increasingly introducing defined contribution end). Trade payables in particular were down, falling by € 28.0 plans for new staff. million, as a result of the decline in the volume of business. In contrast, other non-financial liabilities (+ € 3.8 million) and Our obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of other financial liabilities (+ € 3.5 million) rose slightly. The employees who have left the company account for nearly half ­increase in current financial liabilities (+ € 75.6 million) can be of the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest relates attributed to the reclassification, referred to above, of the to defined benefit obligations for our current employees. tranche of the loan against borrower’s note due in 2017. 64 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Taking into account the increase in total equity and liabilities, principally attributable to the release of funds in trade receivthe share of current liabilities in total equity is 26.1 % (previables and PoC (commitment of funds in previous year). This ous year: 24.2 %). contrasted above all with declines in advances received and ­liabilities, as well as an increase in inventories. The drop in Investments earnings also had a negative impact on the development of cash The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 10.0 million flow compared with the same period of the previous year. (previous year: € 8.3 million) primarily concerned advance payments and own work capitalised for a new software to be The outflows from our investing activities increased by € 79.5 deployed in Sales, as in the previous year. million compared with 2015. The change in term deposits and commercial papers significantly reduced cash flow whereas Investments in property, plant and equipment in the reporting an increase had been reported in the previous year. Accordyear amounted to € 72.2 million, slightly down on the figure ingly, cash flows from investing activities were significantly of € 74.5 million for the previous year. The highest additions lower at € – 114.0 million (previous year: € – 34.5 million). at € 23.6 million (previous year: € 27.7 million) relate to advance payments and assets under construction, as in the preCash flows from financing activities improved strongly, totalvious year. A further € 21.1 million are attributable to techniling € – 9.6 million compared with € – 87.4 million in the cal equipment and machinery (previous year: € 19.9 million). ­previous year. While the overall amount of the loan against As in 2015, the focus of our investment activities was Europe, borrower’s note remained unchanged compared with 2015, and predominantly Germany and France. Outside Europe, the the previous year’s cash flow included significant repayments. highest additions were again recorded at our plants in Brazil, China, India and the USA. We maintained our policies for measCash and cash equivalents from all cash flows increased from uring depreciation and amortisation in the year under review. € 273.1 million to € 288.9 million. Exchange rate effects amounting to € + 4.3 million (previous year: € – 0.1 million) Net financial position contributed to this rise. The net financial position, at € 259.5 million compared with € 211.3 million in the previous year, developed more favour­ We assume that, in future, we will continue to be able to ably than forecast twelve months earlier (slightly below € 211 meet our outgoing payments largely from operating cash flow. million) due to a decrease in trade receivables and PoC. From the current perspective our financial management is meeting the goal of ensuring our liquidity at all times essen€259.5 tially without any additional external financing measures. For more information on liquidity management (such as credit lines) see the section on Risk Reporting on the Utilisation of Financial Instruments elsewhere in this group management report. million Contingencies and commitments The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities toNet financial position in 2016 talled € 15.9 million as at the reporting date (previous year: € 13.4 million). These arise mainly from collateral and performance guarantees. Liquidity Cash flows from operating activities amounted to € 134.5 million, a year-on-year increase of € 17.9 million. This was CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 65 E conom i c R e v i e w Financi al Po si ti o n an d Ne t Asse ts E XPE N S E S I N S TATE M E NT OF C OMPR EH ENSIVE INC OME (in %) 2016 17.6 3.4 37.7 41.3 2015 18.0 3.2 35.9 42.9 Other expenses Depreciation and amortisation expense Staff costs Cost of materials BAL A N C E S H E E T S T RU C TU R E Assets (in %) 0.6 2016 4.5 21.4 1.4 4.8 19.9 35.1 12.3 2015 4.5 21.5 1.6 3.7 19.8 37.0 11.9 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Assets held for sale Equity and liabilities (in %) 2016 37.9 28.8 33.3 2015 38.0 30.1 31.9 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitments Inventories totalled € 467.4 million, up € 13.0 million on the beyond the reporting date. Other financial obligations arise 2015 year end. Raw materials, consumables and supplies, only within the normal scope from long-term rental, lease and work in progress and advance payments all increased, while service agreements (in particular IT and telecommunications) finished goods and goods purchased and held for resale necessary for business operations and from purchase commitwere down on the previous year. Inventories continued to tie ments amounting to € 17.9 million (previous year: € 20.0 up around 20 % of our resources. million). As a result of the lower business volume, trade receivables and NET ASSETS PoC were € 49.4 million down on the 2015 year-end figure. Our total assets increased by 2.6 % to € 2,350.2 million. InOverall, taking into account the change in total assets, this creases, in some cases considerable, were recorded for both balance sheet item accounts for approximately 26 % (previnon-current assets (particularly deferred tax assets) and for cash ous year: 29 %) of total assets. and cash equivalents. This contrasted with lower receivables and other assets. Other financial assets increased from € 156.2 million to € 187.0 million, on account of a rise in the proportion contained Approximately 27 % is attributable to fixed assets (previous therein of fixed-term deposits with terms of more than 3 and year: just under 28 %). Intangible assets and property, plant up to 12 months, including commercial papers, and an inand equipment with a historical cost of € 1,393.1 million crease in receivables from loans to other equity investments, (previous year: € 1,336.4 million) have carrying amounts of associated companies and joint ventures. € 608.2 million (previous year: € 595.9 million). With investments in property, plant and equipment (€ 72.2 million) once Cash and cash equivalents continue to account for around 12 % again exceeding write-downs (€ 61.7 million), this balance of assets, totalling € 288.9 million (previous year: € 273.1 sheet item increased by € 7.8 million. Reclassifications to ­“Assets million). held for sale”, mainly relating to the sale of valves operations in the USA in January 2017, had the opposite effect. The carryInflation and exchange rate effects ing amount of financial assets and investments accounted There were no consolidated companies within the Group for using the equity method fell by a total of € 4.2 million to whose financial statements were required to be adjusted for € 33.0 million. The investments accounted for using the equity the ­effects of inflation. method accounted for € – 4.8 million. 66 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT The currency translation of financial statements of consolidated The difficult market situation also had an impact on the Valves companies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a differsegment. Consequently, the stable order intake that had been ence of + € 20.2 million (previous year: + € 1.2 million). This expected did not materialise, with orders down by 10.0 %. This was taken directly to equity. translated into significant decreases in sales revenue. A year ago we were even expecting a substantial downward trend. Earnings, as predicted, were well down on the previous year. SUMMARY OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT In the Service segment, our forecasts of slight sales revenue growth proved correct. Counter to expectations, the decline in The forecasts made in the previous year’s report have not been earnings was substantial, rather than moderate. Our order fully realised due to the circumstances outlined. The weak ­intake target (moderate increase) could not be achieved, howstate of the economy had a major impact on our core markets ever, and we were faced with a slight fall. in some areas, and thus also on the achievement of our order intake targets. A further negative effect resulted from delays The net financial position, at € 259.5 million compared in the award of orders for large-scale projects. Consequently, with € 211.3 million in the previous year, developed more our order intake was down by 4.6 %, and the significant imfavourably than forecast twelve months earlier (slightly less provement that we were seeking failed to materialise. than € 211 million). Weak demand across the world in several important sectors Our business development in the reporting year in terms of held back the growth in our business. For various products order intake and sales revenue was thus somewhat less favourwe also once again experienced that our pricing flexibility was able overall than expected. In terms of our earnings figures not sufficient in order to achieve satisfactory margins in a and net financial position, however, the overall picture was tougher competitive situation. The resulting impact differed somewhat better than anticipated. across the various segments. KSB continues to have a healthy financial basis for the future. Consequently, sales revenue developed somewhat more poorly The measures initiated to permanently improve our cost structhan expected (strong rather than “significant” decline). tures will strengthen this basis for the long term. As forecast, our earnings figures were impacted by one-off costs (around € 50 million across the Group). Positive effects DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT were recorded as a result of cost-cutting measures initiated earlier (also around € 50 million across the Group). Their conThe Board of Management has submitted the dependent comtribution was actually slightly higher than expected. Overall, pany report to the Supervisory Board. This concludes with while the substantial falls predicted in earnings before income the following declaration: “In accordance with section 312(3) taxes and return on sales did occur, the figures in real terms of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act], were higher than originally planned. we declare that our company – on the basis of the circumstances known to us at the time when the transactions were The sales revenue forecast (significant decrease) for the Pumps made – did not receive adequate compensation for all transsegment proved correct. Earnings generated were, however, actions listed in the dependent company report. Before the end € 5.5 million up on the 2015 figure and did not fall substanof the financial year, the company was granted a legal title to tially, as anticipated. Order intake was expected to rise sig­ an adequate benefit as compensation. No measures subject to nificantly, but actually fell by 4.5 % as a result of the general reporting requirements were undertaken in the financial year.” economic environment. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 67 E conom i c R e v i e w Financi al Po si ti o n an d Ne t Asse ts S ummary o f th e B o ard o f Man age m e n t D e pe nd e n t C o m pan y R e po rt Re port o n Ex pe c te d De v e l o pm e n ts R EPO RT O N EXPEC TED DEVE L O P ME N TS The International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects real growth of primarily expect to see our business in standard products, 3.4 % for the current year. The UN organisation is forecasting s­ ervice and spare parts pick up. Ultimately, a key factor in order a 1.9 % increase in growth in the industrialised nations. The intake will be whether and to what extent project business continuation of an expansionist monetary policy may con­recovers again and whether we can win new projects from tribute to this. However, the favourable basic financial parampotential customers on the basis of our technical expertise eters are being countered by both the structural problems and our pricing. ­referred to above and also by new political uncertainties. The latter include protectionist tendencies in some of the markets Pumps relevant to our business. Growth in the euro zone is expected We expect to see a significant increase in demand for cento remain more or less unchanged. trifugal pumps of the kind we primarily produce and sell. This is likely to be supported by growth in the water and waste With regard to the emerging markets and developing countries, water market and by investment activity in the chemicals and the IMF is forecasting growth of 4.5 % in real terms despite petrochemicals industry gradually picking up speed again. a slight slowing of growth in China again. In contrast, in India, New petrochemical projects, as well as projects in relation to Asia’s second-largest market, structural reforms are intended water and waste water engineering are expected, for example, to improve overall economic development. In Latin America, on the markets in Saudi Arabia and Iran, if oil prices rise again. including Brazil, which is an important production base for Further major waste water projects are at the planning stage us, the situation can be expected to change for the better, if in East Asia, North America and North Africa. commodity prices recover. A normalisation of oil and gas prices would be expected to generate a positive development Generally speaking, the trend towards energy-efficient solutions in the Arab producing countries too. is one factor that could lend impetus to our business with ­automation equipment and energy-saving motors. This is parThe German Engineering Federation (VDMA) believes that ticularly true of building services in Germany, where the the benefits of this global economic development will be below ­“National Energy Efficiency Action Plan” calls for solutions average for the mechanical engineering sector. Globally, the to reduce electricity consumption. We are expecting to see VDMA expects to see a real increase of just 2 %, but its fore­increased demand for our high-efficiency circulator pumps in cast for the German mechanical engineering sector is even particular. more pessimistic, at a mere + 1 %. This forecast is based on such factors as the weakness of some “raw material-related In the manufacturing sector, the indicators point to only ­areas” and unresolved geopolitical crises, but also the afore-­ slight growth. In mining, further improvements in order intake mentioned protectionist trends. are anticipated for 2017. As far as producers of liquid pumps in Germany are concerned, The situation with regard to conventional energy generation, the VDMA is expecting sales revenue to stagnate during the however, remains as difficult as ever. current year. With regard to industrial valves, the Association is even forecasting a 3 % drop in sales. Overall, we expect the Pumps segment to experience sig­ nificant growth in order intake and a significant decline in S IG N I F I C A N T G R OW TH I N OR D ER I NTAKE, SALES R EVENUE sales revenue. MO R E O R L E S S S TA B LE In light of this economic outlook, we are planning on the basis that our order intake will only rise slightly in the current year, with sales revenue set to remain more or less stable. We 68 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT GRO S S D O M E S T I C P R ODU C T GR OW T H Based on the sales momentum described, as well as technical World* innovations and sales initiatives for the global expansion 2017 + 3.4 % (Forecast) of our valves business, we look set to achieve a significant in2016 + 3.1 % crease in orders, with a slight rise in sales revenue. European Union** 2017 + 1.6 % (Forecast) Service 2016 + 1.7 % In the Service segment, we are continuing to expand our infraLatin America* structure, focusing on China, India and the USA. By setting 2017 + 1.2 % (Forecast) up new bases in proximity to key industrial centres, we are 2016 – 0.7 % working to partially offset the decline in service business for Asia (excl. Japan)* nuclear power plants, primarily in Germany. We are expecting 2017 + 6.4 % (Forecast) to see considerable order intake from our new service centres, 2016 + 6.3 % which were set up in Abu Dhabi, Australia, Indonesia, Canada, Emerging markets* Malaysia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Turkey in 2016. We 2017 + 4.5 % (Forecast) also foresee good growth prospects for our business in India, 2016 + 4.1 % where we have realigned our service organisation and ex­tended our range of services, and are aiming to achieve above-­average * Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2017) growth during the current year. ** S ource: European Commission (February 2017); additional information: euro zone + 1.7 % (2016), + 1.6 % (2017) In addition, we are anticipating increased interest in the ­current year in our service to check and improve the energy Valves efficiency of pump systems. This is particularly relevant to In the Valves segment we are also expecting the keen level of customers from industry and local authorities who are looking demand from the water and waste water industry to continue. for ways to cut costs. This relates to the construction of new plants and to replacement investments designed to secure existing infrastructure. Given the ongoing difficulties in the oil and gas industries, The main areas of demand are Asia and the Middle East, as ­demand for service from this sector will remain muted at first. well as North America. Given the favourable market environSimilarly, we are not expecting any increase in orders from ment in the construction sector, we are expecting to see the the energy sector in 2017, with service frequently being kept order situation for butterfly valves, globe valves and gate valves to a minimum. As Germany gradually withdraws from nuclear used in building services change for the better. energy, orders from operators of nuclear power plants are also set to fall further. Should oil and gas prices return to normal, a slightly higher level of demand for valves can be expected from the petroConsequently, we are only expecting to see a slight increase chemicals sector. There is also the likelihood of a slight increase in order volume and stable sales revenue in the Service segin other industrial sectors, including chemicals. ment in 2017. It is still difficult to predict how order intake will develop in the Middle East, with the level of new orders In the energy supply sector, in contrast, we do not yet see any influenced by the political crises in this region of the world. sign of a sustainable market recovery. We are expecting prices for power plant valves to remain under pressure. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 69 Re port o n Ex pe c te d De v e l o pm e n ts GROS S D O M E S TI C P R O DU C T GR OW T H IN T H E B R IC C OU NT R IES € 50 million forecast worldwide. However, in 2017 we will Brazil already be seeing further positive effects from our cost-cutting 2017 0.2 % (Forecast) programmes (worldwide, at a comparable level to 2016). 2016 – 3.5 % We are therefore planning on a segment result, in other words Russia earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) excluding the 2017 1.1 % (Forecast) ­effects from measuring construction contracts under IAS 11 2016 – 0.6 % that, depending on the level of one-off costs for efficiency India ­improvement measures, should be well above the previous year’s 2017 7.2 % (Forecast) figure. We are expecting substantial growth from Valves and 2016 6.6 % Service, and significant increases in Pumps to contribute to this. China Based on what is likely to be a less negative impact from 2017 6.5 % (Forecast) measuring construction contracts under IAS 11, earnings be2016 6.7 % fore taxes (EBT) will also be well up on 2016 levels. As a ­consequence, our return on sales would improve substantially. Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2017) With regard to our net financial position, we are anticipating a figure of between € 240 and 260 million. BOAR D O F M A N AG E MENT’S SUM M ARY OF E XPE C T E D DE V E L O P MENT The forecast period for the above figures and information, For the current business period we anticipate, as detailed above, which we have drawn up taking into account the opportunities a marked improvement in order intake, driven primarily by and risks presented below, covers the 2017 financial year. an upturn in our business with standard products, spare parts Material special factors beyond this period may result from and service support. As already mentioned, we expect all our measures geared towards the long-term improvement segments to make a positive contribution, with Pumps and of our profit situation, which are aimed at reducing material, Valves recording a larger increase in percentage terms than staff and overhead costs. Service. The negative impact from the measurement of construction contracts under IAS 11 on sales revenue is expected FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS to be significantly lower. Accordingly, sales revenue will be This report contains forward-looking statements and informamore or less stable from today’s perspective. Significant falls tion that are based upon the assumptions of Management. in the pumps business are likely to be offset by a slight rise in They express our current forecasts and expectations with regard valves. We are planning for stable sales revenue in our Service to future events. As a result, these forward-looking statesegment. We will be continuing as before with our measures for ments and information are exposed to risks and uncertainties long-term improvements in our profit situation. These aim that lie outside the Management’s sphere of influence. We to reduce material, staff and overhead costs. As part of this wish to point out that actual events or results may differ mateapproach we will be looking to drive forward with our prorially from the forward-looking statements and information gramme to redistribute tasks within our global manufacturing mentioned, if one or more of the following opportunities or network. We will also be creating the basis for further reducrisks, or other opportunities, risks and uncertainties should tions in the number of KSB companies and for streamlining materialise, or if the assumptions underlying the statements our product range. Consequently, earnings figures will again prove to be inaccurate. be burdened by one-off costs in the current year, with around 70 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT OPPO RTU NITIES AND R ISK S RE P O RT As an organisation that operates throughout the world, the functions and Group companies, including Group companies KSB Group is exposed to macroeconomic, sector-typical, that are not consolidated, are included in the risk manage­financial and company-specific risks. Our risk policy is designed ment system. The responsible managers are required to supply to enable us to grow sustainably and profitably. We aim to their relevant key business and financial indicators each ­reduce the risks associated with our business and where posmonth. As well as creating quarterly forecasts on business sible avoid them completely. At the same time our global trends, they also twice a year report the recognised risks for alignment and our extensive product range offer a wealth of the next 24 months from the reporting date for the categories opportunities. This includes in particular any opportunities of market and competitive risks, technological risks, projectthat arise on the basis of our research and development activiand product-related risks, financial risks and procurement risks. ties, as well as any that are linked to the quality and cost Other business risks (environmental, human resources, etc.) e­ ffectiveness of our products. Our competitive position is also are also reported in this cycle to the Risk Managers at the being strengthened by optimising our global sales and proGroup headquarters. We classify risks as qualitative and duction network. We always review opportunities to expand quantitative risks: our global presence and are able to achieve this through startups and acquisition projects. Qualitative risks are long-term developments that could have a negative impact on the KSB Group and which cannot or We see opportunities and risks as possible future developments cannot yet be thoroughly quantified due to a lack of precise or events that may lead to forecast or target deviation. The information. In order to still be able to evaluate them, how­ deviation can be both positive and negative. In order to manever, we make estimates of the probability of occurrence and age the varied opportunities and risks professionally and scope. With respect to probability of occurrence, the extent ­efficiently, we align our actions accordingly and focus upon the to which the information indicating the potential risk is derespective situation when selecting the persons responsible. tailed must be determined. The scope describes the potential In doing so, Controlling, Finance and Accounting as well as influence of the individual risk on the earnings before interest Internal Audits perform important monitoring tasks. and taxes (EBIT) of the KSB Group or the respective Group company. RISK M A N AG E M E NT SYSTEM KSB has implemented a Group-wide risk management system Quantitative risks are those risks with possible monetary for identifying and assessing relevant risks and reporting these ­impact on the earnings of the KSB Group or the respective to Group headquarters. The risk management process of the Group company. They are evaluated taking into account the KSB Group consists of the successive phases of identification, probability of occurrence in combination with the potential assessment, management, control, documentation and comamount of loss. munication of risks. The six phases form a continuous and IT-based closed-loop system. This is documented in our risk In order to assess whether qualitative and quantitative indimanagement manual as well as the management responsibility vidual risks are significant for us, we classify them as acceptand the description of all relevant tasks. able, neutral or significant risks. We consider as material for the KSB Group all individual risks categorised as neutral or Managers are encouraged to take timely action to define and significant that are detailed in the “Individually assessed implement measures to limit or avoid damage that may result ­opportunities and risks” section. The relevant classification can from the occurrence of risk events. All corporate and central be determined from the matrices below: CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 71 Opport u n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt Q UA L I TATI V E R ISKS QUANTITATIV E RISK S Probability of occurrence Probability of occurrence High High Significant Significant >70 % Neutral Medium Neutral Medium 30 –70 % Low Low Acceptable Acceptable < 30 % Low Medium High Low Medium High Scope Amount of loss Evaluation of the amount of loss is based on just three possible classifications: low, medium and high. The following criteria apply: Amount of loss in € thousands Magnitude Sales revenue Low Medium High Small companies Up to € 20 million 50 – 125 125 – 250 > 250 Medium-sized companies € 20 to € 80 million 75 – 250 250 – 500 > 500 Large companies, holding companies, organisational units From € 80 million 100 – 500 500 – 1,000 > 1,000 This approach gives us the necessary transparency to identify two risk reports per financial year. These reports include all the risks in their entirety and to manage them effectively, profesrisks that are categorised as significant or neutral that exceed sionally and in an economically responsible manner. pre-defined threshold values individually or collectively, not considering any action that has been taken. Particularly The bodies to which specific responsibilities and competencies ­critical topics are reported on an ad-hoc basis by the managers have been assigned in KSB’s risk management system are in charge. In contrast, opportunities are not taken into shown and explained in the figure on page 72. ­account in this system, but are examined separately in consultation with segment managers and regional managers. The overall responsibility for risk management lies with the Board of Management of KSB AG. It reports to the Supervisory With regard to financial risks we also make use of additional Board during regular Audit Committee meetings and is monirisk identification, assessment, management and communi­ tored by the latter. The Board of Management is supported by cation. The central Finance department is responsible for this the Chief Compliance Officer and the Group Finance and task which is described in further detail later in this section. ­Accounting department. The latter coordinates the risk management process at Group level and investigates all reported Compliance risks are dealt with by the Chief Compliance risks to determine whether they are relevant for the financial ­Officer, who is assigned to the Legal and Compliance, Patents statements. It ensures that there is a systematic link with and Trademarks staff function. The Chief Compliance Officer the Group accounting process. The Board of Management and is supported by the members of the Compliance Committee the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee receive at least and the Compliance Managers of the individual companies. 72 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT R I S K M A N AG EMENT AT KSB Supervisory Board Board of Management Auditors Risk Managers Internal Audits • A  udit of the annual financial • C  ontrolling the risk management • M  onitoring of proper functioning statements ­process and effectiveness • Recommendations for improvement • Analysing the risk reports • Reporting to the Board of Management Risk Owners • Risk identification • Risk evaluation • Risk control and monitoring (incl. implementation of measures) • Risk recording • R  isk communication / Ad hoc reporting The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk manINTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEME N T agement system as part of our internal control system. When SYSTEM WITH REGARD TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTIN G planning audits, it prioritises areas according to potential risks ­P ROCESS and is provided with all the necessary information. The The accounting-related internal control system (ICS) con­ ­auditors ensure that all audited units adhere to the applicable tributes towards ensuring proper financial reporting. The aim guidelines, actively participate in the risk management sysis to ensure that the consolidated financial statements and tem, and control or avoid their risks. Information obtained by group management report comply with all relevant regulations. Internal Audits on both the recognised risks and the counter­ Key elements of the ICS are – as well as the risk management measures introduced in response forms an integral part of the system described above – guidelines and regulations, which reporting to the Board of Management and the Audit Com­ include standard accounting and measurement policies. They mittee of the Supervisory Board. must be applied to the full extent by all our Group companies. Functional separation and the principle of dual control are Our risk management system is regularly reviewed and observed; this is ensured by the audits carried out by our Interpromptly updated where necessary, for example, in the event nal Audits department. of relevant legal or organisational changes. In addition, our auditor examines within the scope of the annual audit the early In addition, the Accounting department carries out regular risk detection system, establishing that it is present and analytical plausibility checks using time series analyses and checking that it is fit for purpose. ­actual / budget variance analyses. This enables us to identify CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 73 Opport u n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt significant changes early on, which we then examine for We have defined access authorisations for the accounting-­ ­accounting and measurement discrepancies. The resulting related IT system. This protects the data against unauthorised findings are then discussed at management level. access as well as improper usage and modification. The data is checked at many stages, helping to ensure the processing The responsibility for Group accounting lies with the employees quality. Alongside regular system reviews by the auditors, in the central Accounting KSB Group department. We e­ mploy these checks contribute to limiting operational risks. the services of qualified external reviewers for certain calcu­ lations as part of financial reporting (such as the cal­culation IN D IV ID UA L LY A S S E S S E D O P P O RT U N IT IE S A N D R IS K S of complex pension obligations using actuarial assumptions). The categories presented below – unless stipulated otherwise – include the qualitative and quantitative gross risks classified Binding schedules and guidelines apply to accounting within as significant or neutral and the main opportunities for our the KSB Group and to accounting at each individual subsidiary. business development. The main influencing factor remains the The accounting methods that must be applied to compile the economic development. All other opportunities and risks are consolidated financial statements are defined in writing in a assessed as secondary. manual that we update and revise on a continual basis. This also includes the guidelines for posting intra-group transacMarkets / Competition tions. We continually analyse new accounting principles and other official announcements with regard to their relevance and Risks impact on the consolidated financial statements. We adapt Our business and the opportunities available to us are affected our guidelines and manual where necessary and communicate by changes in the economic and political environments. The any changes immediately to our companies. Accounting KSB key economic factors, once again in the current year, include Group monitors compliance with these regulations. This enables oil prices, which have yet to reach a satisfactory level despite us to reduce the risk of compiling inappropriate financial climbing in 2016. In the absence of a continued recovery, the statements or failing to publish them by the defined deadlines. oil-producing countries’ financial strength would be hampered and with it their options for new investments. We counWe automatically process the financial statement information ter this risk, which is classed as “significant” by intensifying for all Group companies using certified and tested standard our contacts with companies and institutions that are making consolidation software. Systematic checks are implemented purchases within the means available to them. In this way we to help us validate the data. Employees in Accounting KSB aim to limit the negative impact on our business. Group verify any warning signals that arise before using the data. The sequence of the processing steps is strictly specified There is still the risk of falling demand in the petrochemical through the use of the consolidation monitor within our IT industry in China, which would impair order intake for our system. This ensures the correct processing of data. pumps and valves. We are responding to this risk by monitoring our orders on hand and by offering the available products To enable a seamless and accurate accounting process, we for other fields of application. only assign employees to this task who have the appropriate specialist know-how. These employees are trained on a reguThe political situation in various parts of the world remains lar basis to make sure that their expert knowledge remains up critical, not least the general situation in Turkey and Ukraine. to date. The destabilisation of Syria, Libya, Yemen and Iraq following internal and external conflicts is having an impact beyond national borders, affecting these countries’ neighbours too. 74 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Both private companies and government institutions are very provinces, have impacted negatively on our business perforreticent with regard to investment in new plant. It is possible mance. In order to tap into the Asian market more widely, we that the conflicts could spread further, which would place addihave agreed a strategic alliance with our long-term partner, tional constraints on our business opportunities in this region. the Chinese SEC Group, in late 2015. This aims at closer cooperation so that KSB can achieve success in Asian power Given the political differences between Russia and the USA, plant projects outside of China. and between Russia and most European countries, East / West relations remain very strained. This is also evident from Opportunities economic life, with Russian companies increasingly ordering As detailed in the report on expected developments, the water products that have been made in Russia or involve a high and waste water market is continuing to develop positively, proportion of local value added. Our KSB company in Moscow ­resulting in large-scale project orders in North Africa and the has reacted to this development, setting up a local assembly Middle East, as well as in France, China and the USA. With site in leased premises for industrial and water engineering expert staff on the ground, we can provide clients with techpumps. Additionally, we are also planning to establish our nical and commercial advice, and therefore see good oppor­ own production site. tunities to contribute to these and other projects. In South Africa, political tensions in conjunction with ecoIn Brazil, the difficult economic situation, particularly in the nomic shortcomings are hampering progress. This is affecting oil and gas sector, has prompted several of our competitors to the business prospects of our local production and sales scale back their activities. This has extended to the closure company. Consequently, it is intensifying its sales activities in of plants and sales offices. From KSB’s perspective, there are other countries in southern Africa, primarily Zambia. therefore opportunities to win market share again when the economy starts moving upwards. We manage the risk of fluctuations in the economy and in ­demand by remaining active in several market sectors and The expansion of our service network improves our opportuindustries with different economic cycles. Furthermore we are nities in several countries to offer classic services such as inmonitoring the development of the economic environment for spections, maintenance and repairs. At the same time, however, our market sectors. If necessary, we adjust capacities, relocate our new service centres could provide a base from which to production facilities and implement cost-cutting measures. offer retrofit services and our energy-saving concepts to a broader range of customers. Where this is successful, we can Political relations between various European countries and become involved in the modernisation of existing plant and, Iran improved in 2016, providing a foundation for improved in particular, convert inefficient plants to energy-saving business activities but also posing the risk of US business ­operation. suffering as a result. Projects / Products Asia remains our most important sales market for power plant equipment, including pumps and valves. However, comRisks petition in China has intensified again, not least due to the The markets’ requirements for our products are constantly negative economic development. For the KSB Group, this has changing. We will only succeed if we meet our delivery deadcreated increased pricing pressure and thus represents a “sig­ lines and offer technically advanced products in good quality nificant” risk. Political decisions too, such as the postponement at affordable prices. To minimise the risk of delivery delays, or even abandonment of energy projects in several Chinese which can lead to an adverse effect on our reputation with CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 75 Opport u n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt customers and also result in financial penalties, we constantly € 52 million in the previous year; beyond this there is no other monitor our sales and manufacturing operations. If we major residual risk (net risk). ­discover that machinery needs to be renewed or capacities expanded, we examine these investment projects as part of a Opportunities step-by-step approval process. By doing this, we counter the In the course of 2016 we partially renewed our water and risk of schedule and cost overruns. waste water product portfolio, improving our offering with energy-efficient components. This provides good opportuniRegular market analysis and monitoring minimise the risk ties to benefit from the growing demand from the customer that our products will become technically obsolete or that we industry, particularly as our product’s low electricity conoffer them at prices not acceptable in the market. At the sumption is increasingly becoming a purchasing argument for same time, we are exposed to the risk posed by cheap products operators of waterworks, waste water treatment plants and from Eastern Europe and Asia that compete with KSB’s the connected pumping stations. Our new packaged pump sta­portfolio. This calls for continuous quality management, which tion with integrated solids separation system for pumped we have introduced across the Group. drainage applications will open up new sales opportunities in several Eastern European countries this year. In our business, there are special requirements when it comes to the processing of large-scale projects with long terms. There Over the current year we will able to supply equipment supare also always associated risks. There may be cost overruns, pliers for heating and air-conditioning systems with a full tighter import regulations, staff shortages, technical difficulties range of our own glandless pumps, covering all needs from or quality problems – including possible penalties – that detached family homes to large-scale industrial or hotel ­reduce our margins. We therefore train our employees in procomplexes. This extended range improves our opportunities ject management and equip them with specialist knowledge. to sell to original equipment manufacturers and large-scale This enables them to identify the risks associated with longerplant engineering contractors. Where fire protection systems term orders at an early stage. With this in mind, our project are also needed in industrial applications and building ser­ managers are also provided with appropriate management tools. vices, we are now able to offer our certified butterfly valves Decisions are made in conjunction with clearly structured for fire protection. ­authorisation processes. The successive expansion of our range of mechanical seals proThere are also technical and financial risks to orders with newly duced in-house forms part of our efforts to extend our value designed products. We limit technical risks to the extent that added and cut external purchasing costs. With the 25 pump we define intermediate steps for development work and subtype series that we are now fitting with these components, ject partial solutions to assessments. This also applies to we can offer our customers a high-quality technical solution pumps that we provide within the framework of a major conthat will have a positive impact on their maintenance and tract running over a number of years for the construction ­repair costs. To this extent there is a good opportunity to of a new type of power plant in China. We minimise financial ­record more significant increases in the quantity sold of these risks by using appropriate contractual clauses, and ensure seals. that advances cover the costs incurred. We are supporting plant engineering contractors in the energy We set aside suitable provisions for warranty obligations and and industry sectors as they strive to achieve standardisation contractual penalty risks. These amounted to € 50 million in and modularisation. Through framework agreements, we can the consolidated financial statements for 2016 compared with offer the most appropriate system components with short 76 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT d ­ elivery times. In this way, we have the chance to extend and Persistent recessions or newly emerging crisis may adversely consolidate our business relations with major customers over affect the financial situation of our customers. Delayed paythe long term. ments and credit losses as a result of this can place a burden upon our results of operations. The same effect might occur if Finance / Liquidity the foreign exchange regulations become stricter for individual countries. We counter this by means of a strict receivRisks ables management system and intensive customer contacts. As a group with global operations, we are exposed to a wide Our Italian company, whose product range includes high-­ variety of currency risks. We counter these with foreign efficiency motors, experienced a deterioration in its financial exchange hedges. However, our global manufacturing network situation during the reporting year. Some service companies in also offers us the opportunity to benefit from currency effects France also suffered as a result of the persistently difficult and to use these where appropriate in competition with other economic situation in the country, with an impact on business manufacturers. In addition to uncertainties regarding exchange development and thus on economic and financial solvency, rates, interest rate developments on the capital markets play as well as medium-term business prospects. We are therefore a role for us. We use bank loans subject to variable interest rates reviewing the strategic direction and organisational structures to counter the interest rate risk by hedging our future interof our service activities there. Where deemed appropriate, we est payment flows accordingly. will merge individual units and also exit from any areas from which we do not expect long-term profitability. Alongside the euro, the most important currencies for the KSB Group are the US dollar, the Indian rupee, the Brazilian real Changing market conditions mean that our business models and the Chinese yuan. If the exchange rate differs from our need to be fundamentally reviewed time and time again. assumptions, this would have positive or negative effects on This can also mean that we have to adjust our product range our business volumes and our earnings. A strict receivables accordingly. management system and the use of trade credit insurance helps us avoid situations where receivables cannot be collected As regards tax matters, the global orientation of our activities from our customers. must be taken into consideration. Based on our operative activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and Risks regarding margins and liquidity are typical of the project administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is business. As well as the continued pressure on our selling required for measuring our tax obligations. Uncertainty may prices, which is reducing our profit margins, these include un­ arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on favourable contract conditions such as reduced advances and the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. These tougher contractual penalties. As we comply exactly with our may come to light during audits. By cooperating closely with approval processes in the quotation phase and constantly external local tax specialists, we counteract the risk of having monitor our net financial position, we minimise this risk. At the to pay back taxes. As we continually monitor unclear issues, same time, this enables us to recognise and avoid liquidity we can generally classify the probability of occurrence. Should shortages. Where necessary, we secure sufficient liquidity by a need for subsequent payment arise, we create the correagreeing appropriate credit lines early on. sponding provisions in good time. In the 2016 consolidated financial statements, we set aside € 1.3 million for circumstances that are classified as a significant or neutral risk. In addition, there are contingent liabilities expected to total up to € 7.4 million. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 77 Opport u n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt Opportunities Opportunities By the end of 2016 the US dollar had reached its highest level In order to make our products more competitive, our global for 14 years against other major currencies, based on the purchasing managers are closely involved in the “design-toexpectation that the new government would work to generate cost” process. Through this process we manage the concepeconomic impetus. If the dollar remains strong against the tion and development of our products to ensure that the euro, exporting European products to the US market could resulting market opportunities are optimised, including from become easier, provided that the general trading conditions a pricing perspective. To this end, Purchasing can influence do not change. Contracts that we post in US dollars would also, design considerations in the interests of cost-optimised proafter conversion to our Group currency, result in higher curement. amounts than if exchange rates remained unchanged. For the purposes of standardising and harmonising our proProcurement cesses, smaller KSB companies are also increasingly making use of uniform ERP systems . This standardisation increases Risks the transparency of our procurement processes and makes Commodity prices and procurement times are subject to it easier to pool the procurement of the same or similar parts, strong market-related fluctuations. This may adversely affect thereby saving costs. Using SAP software, we are also creour earnings situation if we do not manage to make up for ating end-to-end electronic processes from the placing of an cost increases or pass them onto our customers. Delays or bottleorder through to payment, accelerating the entire workflow necks in our supply chain for raw materials and components and reducing the likelihood of errors. may negatively impact our business operations. If we do not benefit promptly from declining procurement prices, the perTechnology / Research and Development sistent pressure on the selling price of our products would have a negative effect on our earnings. Risks It is essential to our future success that we have a product In the context of our procurement strategy, we are also careful and service range that is suited to the market in terms of techto avoid becoming dependent on individual suppliers. If local nology, price and delivery time. The changing needs of our conditions mean that it is impossible to ensure sufficient divercustomers and new standards and regulations – especially in sification in this regard, we make use of additional foreign promising markets such as China – require that we continubusiness partners. ously develop and improve our products and services. Research and development required for adjustments consumes signifiOur suppliers are also further developing their product ranges. cant financial and human resources, with no guarantee of sucIn some cases, this results in changes to the specifications cess in either the medium or the long term. for the materials that we require. We consistently monitor any potential impact on the quality of our products. Should risks To avoid any negative impact on earnings, it is important to emerge, we reserve higher volumes based on the original materecognise the market-related or technical risks early on. To rial structure, where possible, and assess alternative procurethis end, we are constantly updating our development process, ment sources. which incorporates various control levels. As sales employees are regularly included in this process, risks arising from 78 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT changes in markets or applications can be taken into account As part of acquisition projects, we examine properties for in good time in the evaluation. This close integration also possible contamination before purchase. We take account of enables us to respond to new market trends more quickly than critical issues by way of corresponding contractual regulaour competitors. tions with the seller and implement appropriate measure in consultation it. Opportunities We are keeping a close eye on our markets and are actively In markets where environmental regulations are becoming involved in the development of new technologies. In this way, more stringent, there is a risk that our products and own or we are able to find appropriate solutions to match our cuspurchased services may cause infringements that lead to us tomers’ needs at an early stage. By implementing these solutions losing our market authorisation and which damage our repuin the form of innovative products and services, we are able tation. A change in rules on liability in environmental proto offer the type of product benefits that our customers value. tection can also increase the risks for our business success. As a member of national and international professional associaIn addition to further developments in hydraulics, materials tions we become aware of imminent changes in environmental technology and automation, we also monitor the technical law early on. We also continually update the legal frameoptions presented by digitally networked systems with a high works that are in place in our Operational Units, enabling us level of information transparency. Using interdisciplinary to ensure that our employees always abide by the applicable teams we are currently looking into the opportunities in relalaw. This is also monitored by external auditors as part of the tion to serving our customers. In early 2017 we created a management certifications. special unit which is dedicated to developing and fleshing out new business models on the basis of Industry 4.0 within Opportunities the scope of four projects. Our activities as an industrial company inevitably present risks to humans and to nature. Using a global environmental Other business-specific risks – Environment management system, we recognise any hazards in good time, implementing protective measures as and when required. This Risks puts us in a good position to prevent damage and any resultOur business activities, primarily in the area of production, are ing financial consequences. By having our production and sersubject to numerous environmental protection laws and vice plants checked by auditors and certified according to inregulations. Environmental damage of any kind (for example, ternational standards, we and our customers are both assured groundwater contamination, renovation needed due to outthat KSB companies respect the environment. This is an imdated construction materials or unpleasant odours arising from portant prerequisite for many business relations. It offers KSB the use of chemicals) may result in losses not covered by an the opportunity to present itself to the market as an environinsurance policy. Therefore, at all company sites officers monmentally sound company. Our commitment to the UN Global itor compliance with laws and regulations as well as with Compact , too, allows us to meet the expectations of our internal KSB rules, which in some cases exceed the prescribed customers and thus improve our sales prospects. environmental standards. If we discover any contamination, we set aside provisions to meet the liabilities for the necessary We also conduct regular energy audits, complying with the clean-up work. In the 2016 consolidated financial statements, implementation, at national level, of an EU Regulation. Ultithese amounted to just under € 1 million for significant or mately, these analyses reveal potential for additional energy neutral risks. savings by renovating our production halls, through smart CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 79 Opport u n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt management of our production facilities and through instrucLike all companies, KSB has to adapt to new market conditions to the operators of machine tools. tions. We are currently implementing a global efficiency improvement programme, which also encompasses staff reducIn some countries, tax incentives are available for companies tion measures. By seeking out socially responsible solutions with an environmental and energy management system. in the areas of the company concerned and by keeping our Through our certified systems we have always been able to employees up to date at all times, we are aiming to keep provide the relevant documentation in this regard. motivation high and to avoid the departure of employees from key positions. It is clear to us that the trend towards effective environmental protection and greater energy efficiency among our customers Changes to our processes and organisational structure, such is ongoing worldwide. This will continue to have a positive as the introduction of shared services centres, require clearly impact on demand for our products and services. Our customdefined project responsibilities and valid project plans, as well ers can, for example, use our FluidFuture concept to cut as the selection of suitably qualified external partners. This their electricity consumption. A system analysis is used to enhelps to avoid teething troubles when changes are introduced sure that pumps and valves are properly designed and to to structures and processes, as such problems could impact provide information on the benefits of using high-efficiency on the expected cost benefits. pumps, valves and drives. Other potential risks associated with the activities of our Other business-specific risks – Human resources, legal employees include dishonest conduct or violations of laws, that aspects and IT could damage the image of KSB. We counter these risks and safeguard our reputation among our customers by organising Risks regular compliance training and through individual initiaTo achieve our growth and profitability business objectives, tives in critical regions. we need qualified employees at all our locations, including technical specialists. Due to the demographic change in some Legal disputes cannot always be avoided within the framework countries, the competition for these and other highly skilled of our business activities. These are usually disputes arising professionals is increasing, and will intensify if economic recovfrom operations, generally involving unclear warranty issues. ery sets in. We counter this risk with demand-oriented measIf as a result of these issues we expect negative effects on ures, systematic human resources planning and international the success of our business, we set aside corresponding provirecruitment processes. sions, which cover not only the anticipated amount of loss, but also the costs of proceedings. To rule out a net risk, the 2016 Changing market conditions can have a negative impact on consolidated financial statements include about € 3 million the funded status of our pension obligations. Strong fluctuafor those cases classified as significant or neutral risks. We have tions in the evaluation of capital market interest rates to be also created provisions for litigation with authorities and paid may have a considerable impact on the Group’s earnings for staff matters. These amount to just under € 2 million to and the equity carried on the balance sheet. To limit this risk, cover any cases we classify as significant or neutral within we validate alternative models. our risk assessment methodology. 80 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to tion, we estimate the risk to be slightly higher compared with serious commercial disadvantages. We limit this risk by means the previous year. We nonetheless hope that our measures, of adequate security systems and access procedures. An inintended to foster growth, will provide us with considerable creased centralisation of the IT systems of our various operatsupport in achieving our goals. Furthermore, the political ing units assists us in this. In this way, we implement high crises and future development of the oil price mean both opporsecurity standards and thus reduce the risk of data loss or tunities and risks for all segments. Our customers are also corruption. often affected by recessions and more intense competition, which can compromise their ability to pay in individual cases. Opportunities In 2016 we carried out a survey of 11,000 employees across Negative currency changes in growth countries could threaten ten countries in order to pinpoint the company’s strengths our exports, in particular those from our European plants. and weaknesses. Based on the feedback from approximately But this would also enable our production facilities in the coun8,700 members of staff, we developed measures that should tries affected to benefit from such developments and to already be helping to further improve the fundamentals of our increase their export volumes. work, including customer focus, innovation, cooperation and performance management in the current year. Provided RISK REPORT ON THE UTILISATION OF these measures are successful, we can expect to see even FINANCIAL ­I NSTRUMENTS greater commitment from our employees, thereby further Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its increasing our company’s value for our customers. At the same duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by time, we also expect the measures triggered by our staff’s the Board of Management. We base the nature and scope of ­responses to strengthen KSB’s reputation as an employer. all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of This will make it easier for us to attract the experts and manour business and do not lend ourselves to business of a specuagers that we need. lative nature. The aim is to ensure liquidity at all times and to finance our activities under optimal conditions. With respect IMP O RTA N T O P P O RTUNI TI ES AND R I SKS B Y SEGM ENT to our export business, we hedge foreign exchange and As in the previous year, the opportunities and risks for the credit risks to the greatest extent possible. We continuously Pumps, Valves and Service segments are most influenced by improve our receivables management methods with the goal economic development. The future development of China of settling our outstanding amounts by their due dates. remains important to KSB. Particularly in Eastern Europe, uncertainty regarding political risk is of great significance to the We are exposed to the following financial risks as a consePumps and Valves segments, and to a lesser degree to Service. quence of our business activities: At the same time, the still comparatively low price of oil and worsening payment morale also harbour risk potential for On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define future business transactions. A quicker-than-expected return credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of conto political stability, combined with a calming of the currency tractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity turmoil, would probably have positive repercussions. This risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its would also be the case were the oil price to experience another financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. recovery matching that of 2016. Conversely, a continuation Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange of the political uncertainty, combined with persistent deprecirate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the ecoation tendencies among some currencies or a permanently nomic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the low oil price, would have a negative impact on our business. prices of financial instruments are not material for us. As regards our main influencing factor, the economic situaCO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 81 Opport u n i ti e s an d R i sk s R e po rt We use foreign exchange hedges to reduce the risks from Overall, we assume there will be moderate economic recovery transactions involving different currencies. These are generally over the next year. Our structural measures will afford us currency forwards, which we use both for transactions that additional support in achieving our objectives. However, there have already been recognised and for future cash flows from are risks associated with an economic slowdown in the growth orders still to be processed. At year end, the notional volume markets, particularly China, as well as with negative develof currency forwards used to hedge exchange rate risks was opments that could stem from regions in Eastern Europe, the € 269.8 million (previous year: € 254.0 million). Foreign Middle East, Turkey or parts of Africa experiencing political currency items denominated in US dollars account for the major unrest. This similarly applies to future changes in the price of volume hedged by forwards. By strengthening our producoil, as well as to volatile currencies. Such circumstances tion sites worldwide, we can realise “natural” currency hedging would have a negative effect on our business volumes as well in currency markets that continue to be volatile. as our planned earnings. To minimise interest rate risks, we concluded interest rate In this environment, the KSB Group continues to rely on its swaps to hedge cash flows from underlyings amounting to ability to match capacities and resources to the changing € 39.5 million (previous year: € 39.5 million). Underlyings and market conditions. For us, a solid financial position and an hedge transactions share the same variable interest rates and efficient cost structure are vital in order to maintain our maturities (1 year). long-term competitiveness. We are convinced that we can continue to successfully overcome the risks arising from the We limit all these risks through an appropriate risk manageabove-mentioned challenges. ment system, defining how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor The risk management system in place, as well as the related the current risk characteristics and continuously provide the ­organisational measures, allow the Board of Management to information obtained in this way to the Board of Manageidentify risks in a timely manner and to take adequate measment and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised ures. In view of the somewhat uncertain situation, the focus reports and individual analyses. of activities in 2017 will continue to be on the management of market risks. The Board of Management states that, based For more information on the three risk areas and the impact on the risk management system established by the KSB Group, on the balance sheet, see the Notes, section VI. Additional at present there are no risks that could lead to a lasting and Disclosures on Financial Instruments. significant impact on the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the KSB Group. OVE R A L L A S S E S S M E N T OF OP P ORTUNI TI ES AND R I SKS BY T HE B OA R D O F M A N AGEM ENT The opportunities and risks for the KSB Group are mainly derived from macroeconomic influencing factors and their effects on the global mechanical engineering markets and the competition. The overall risk situation has not changed materially in comparison with the previous year, but there has been a change in the assessment of various individual risks as a result of our measures and, in part, of other internal and external aspects. 82 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT ACQ U I SI T IONRELATED DIS CL O S URE S A summary of the acquisition-related disclosures required by The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the Annual section 315(4) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German General Meeting on 6 May 2015 to purchase, until 5 May Commercial Code] is given below and explanatory information 2020, company shares of any type totalling up to 10 % of the is provided pursuant to sections 175(2) and 176(1) of the current share capital or, if lower, of the share capital at the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. Infortime of this authorisation being exercised. The Board of Manmation is disclosed only to the extent that it applies to agement shall be entitled to: (1) sell company shares purKSB AG. chased on the basis of this authorisation either on the stock exchange or by another means that safeguards the rule of KSB AG ’s share capital amounts to € 44.8 million, of which equal treatment of all shareholders, for example by means of € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 no-par-value ordian offer to all of the company’s shareholders; (2) sell the nary shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 no-par-value preferacquired shares of the company with the consent of the Superence shares. Each no-par-value share represents an equal visory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, if notional amount of the share capital. All shares are bearer shares. the shares are sold for cash and at a price that is not materially They are listed for trading on the regulated market and are lower than the market price for company shares of the same traded in the General Standard segment of the Frankfurt Stock type and with the same features at the time of the sale. This Exchange. authorisation is limited to the sale of shares that overall represent no more than 10 % of the existing share capital on the Each ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at KSB AG’s date on which such authorisation becomes effective or, if the Annual General Meeting. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, amount is lower, the date this authorisation is exercised. The holds approximately 80 % of the ordinary shares; the KSB 10 % limit shall be reduced by the proportional amount of Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, holds the majority of share capital for shares (i) issued within the scope of a capital the shares of Klein Pumpen GmbH. The preference shares carry increase during the term of the authorisation excluding subseparate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive scription rights pursuant to section 186(3) sentence 4 of the additional dividend rights. Detailed information on the share AktG or (ii) to be issued for the purpose of servicing warcapital and shareholders holding an interest of more than rants and convertible bonds, provided that the bonds were 10 % is provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial issued during the term of the authorisation excluding subStatements. Holders of preference shares are entitled to votscription rights pursuant to section 186(3) sentence 4 of the ing rights only in the cases prescribed by law. The issue of AktG; (3) sell the shares with the consent of the Supervisory additional ordinary shares does not require the consent of the Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, to third preference shareholders. Similarly, the issue of additional parties for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts thereof preference shares does not require the consent of the preference and/or financial interests in companies as well as within the shareholders provided that the subscription rights do not scope of corporate mergers or (4) redeem the acquired shares ­exclude newly issued senior or pari passu preference shares. without any further resolution of the Annual General Meeting in full or in part, including in several partial steps. The CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 83 A cquis i ti o n -re l ate d Di sc l o su re s Corporate Go v e rn an c e S tate m e n t CO RP O RATE G OVE RN AN CE S TATE ME N T ( S E CTI O N 2 8 9 a O F THE HG B) r­ edemption may also take place without a capital reduction The Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289 a by adjusting the proportional amount of the other no-par-­ of the HGB [German Commercial Code] dated 30 March value shares in the company’s share capital. In such cases, the 2016 is accessible to the public at www.ksb.com > Investor Board of Management shall be authorised by the Articles of Relations > Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Association to adjust the number of no-par-value shares. Statement. The updated Statement will be made accessible to KSB AG has not yet made use of this authorisation to purchase the public in the same way from 30 March 2017. treasury shares. In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including the There are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting Statement of Compliance in accordance with section 161 of authorising the company’s Board of Management to increase the German Public Companies Act), the Corporate Governance the share capital (authorised capital). Statement includes relevant information on corporate gover­ nance practices applied at KSB AG that go beyond statutory In accordance with its Articles of Association, KSB AG is requirements. Also described are the working methods of managed by two Board of Management members. The Superthe Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and the visory Board decides on the appointment and termination composition and working methods of the committees of the of the mandate of members of the Board of Management in Supervisory Board. accordance with the statutory provisions. Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are resolved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments only affect the wording of the Articles of Association, they can be made by the Supervisory Board, which operates and is formed in accordance with the regulations of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination Act]. 84 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT R E MU N ERATION OF THE BOARD O F MAN AG E ME N T (REMU N ERATION R EPORT) The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied granted to members of the Board of Management in the year when determining the remuneration arrangements for the under review. Board of Management of KSB AG. It is prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remuneration, Governance Code (item 4.2.5) and explains the remuneration the variable remuneration component consists mainly of system in place for Board of Management members. This future-oriented components determined on the basis of a multisystem is geared towards sustainable corporate development. year assessment. They are partly based (60 %) on the degree It is adopted by the Supervisory Board plenary session based of implementation of the corporate strategy and its actual maron the recommendation of the Personnel Committee and ket success, and partly (20 %) on the return on investment ­reviewed at regular intervals. The same applies to individual measured according to the economic value added method based Board of Management compensation amounts. on a past average value over a medium-term horizon. The short-term share (20 %) is based on the development of the net The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management financial position in the respective financial year as comare structured as clearly and transparently as possible. The pared with the planned development. The total amount of the total amount of remuneration for the individual Board of Manvariable remuneration components is limited in order to agement members is determined based on various parametake extraordinary, unforeseen developments into account. ters. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the remuneration include the responsibilities of the individual Board of The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional posManagement members, their personal performance, the ecosibility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at the nomic situation, the company’s success and prospects as well discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than three as customary remuneration amounts when taking peer compamonthly salary payments per financial year in recognition nies and the remuneration structure used elsewhere within of any special performance of individual members of the Board the company into consideration. of Management. Such decisions are only made on an irregular basis, meaning that they do not necessarily have to be The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of made annually. fixed and variable components. Fixed components are granted regardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus Furthermore, when Board of Management contracts are conbenefits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, cluded it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Managewidow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % ment member in the event of his or her Board of Management of the maximum annual salary and is paid out as a monthly tenure being terminated earlier than agreed without good basic remuneration. All Board of Management members are reason shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration equally entitled to the accompanying fringe benefits which inincluding fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with clude the private use of a company car, payment of insurance item 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code). No premiums and any payments associated with a post-contractual other payments have been promised to any Board of Managenon-competition clause. No loans or advance payments were ment members in the event of termination of service; similarly CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 85 Re mune rati o n o f th e B o ard o f Man age m e n t no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover offer. If the contract of service of a Board of Management member is terminated for cause, the company shall not make any severance payments. On 6 May 2015 – using a legally permissible option – the Annual General Meeting again resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for individual members of the Board of Management for a period of five years. In total, the short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to the members of the Board of Management for their activities in the 2016 financial year amounted to € 1,250 thousand (previous year: € 1,289 thousand), and the payments for benefits after termination of work € 1,388 thousand (previous year: € 1,429 thousand). € 5,255 thousand (previous year: € 4,518 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to current members of the Board of Management, and € 39,309 thousand (previous year: € 39,387 thousand) to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 2,244 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 2,246 thousand). No stock options or other share-based payment arrangements are granted to members of the Board of Management. The short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 716 thousand for the 2016 financial year (previous year: € 833 thousand). Information on the structure of the remuneration arrangements for the Supervisory Board is provided in the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289a of the HGB. Frankenthal, 21 March 2017 The Board of Management 86 SEZ Tubular casing pump for large water intake structures CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 4 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 88 Balance Sheet 89 Statement of Comprehensive Income 90 Statement of Changes in Equity 92 Statement of Cash Flows 93 Notes 171 List of Shareholdings 175 Supervisory Board 176 Board of Management 177 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG W E I T E R E I N F O R M AT I O N E N 88 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS BA LA N CE SHEET AS SE TS (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 106,596 102,075 Property, plant and equipment 2 501,606 493,831 Non-current financial assets 3 8,526 7,961 Investments accounted for using the equity method 4 24,439 29,235 Deferred tax assets 17 112,166 84,360 753,333 717,462 Current assets Inventories 5 467,437 454,411 Trade receivables and PoC 6 614,293 663,740 Other financial assets 6 186,995 156,169 Other non-financial assets 6 24,923 25,200 Cash and cash equivalents 7 288,883 273,136 Assets held for sale 2 14,369 934 1,596,900 1,573,590 2,350,233 2,291,052 E QU I TY A N D L I A B I L I T IES (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Equity 8 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 614,238 609,159 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 725,673 720,594 Non-controlling interests 164,661 149,623 890,334 870,217 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 17 12,375 13,039 Provisions for employee benefits 9 605,540 541,256 Other provisions 9 1,406 1,379 Financial liabilities 10 57,962 133,504 677,283 689,178 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 9 70,916 73,613 Other provisions 9 98,160 99,450 Financial liabilities 10 119,958 44,316 Trade payables 10 210,813 238,848 Other financial liabilities 10 89,406 85,911 Other non-financial liabilities 10 182,979 179,139 Income tax liabilities 10 9,354 10,082 Liabilities held for sale 2 1,030 298 782,616 731,657 2,350,233 2,291,052 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 89 B al an c e S h e e t S tate m e n t o f C o m pre h e n si v e I n c o m e S TATEMEN T OF C OM PREHE N S I VE I N CO ME I NCOM E S TATE M E N T (€ thousands) Notes 2016 2015 Sales revenue 11 2,165,652 2,334,831 Changes in inventories 2,948 10,714 Work performed and capitalised 5,646 4,790 Total output of operations 2,174,246 2,350,335 Other income 12 47,227 49,952 Cost of materials 13 – 874,156 – 979,531 Staff costs 14 – 798,750 – 819,250 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1, 2 – 72,592 – 72,845 Other expenses 15 – 372,441 – 411,467 Other taxes – 13,491 – 13,497 90,043 103,697 Financial income 16 6,612 7,682 Financial expense 16 – 20,672 – 22,360 Income from / expense to investments accounted for using the equity method 16 – 1,342 4,373 – 15,402 – 10,305 Earnings before income taxes 74,641 93,392 Taxes on income 17 – 26,864 – 41,222 Earnings after income taxes 47,777 52,170 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 18 14,834 12,885 Shareholders of KSB AG 32,943 39,285 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 19 18.68 22.30 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 19 18.94 22.56 S TAT EM E N T O F I N C O M E A ND EXPENSE R EC OGNISED IN EQU ITY (€ thousands) Notes 2016 2015 Earnings after income taxes 47,777 52,170 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 9 – 47,278 18,087 Taxes on income 13,546 – 5,454 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and not reclassified to profit or loss in ­subsequent periods – 33,732 12,633 Currency translation differences 20,223 1,158 Attributable to: Expense and income recognised directly in equity attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method – 157 2,208 Changes in the fair value of financial instruments – 1,622 3,077 Taxes on income 453 – 529 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 19,054 3,706 Other comprehensive income – 14,678 16,339 Total comprehensive income 33,099 68,509 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 17,836 22,318 Shareholders of KSB AG 15,263 46,191 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. 90 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS S TAT EMENT OF C HANGES I N E Q UI TY Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2015 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 8) – – Capital increase / decrease (Notes No. 8) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2015 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2016 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 8) – – Capital increase / decrease (Notes No. 8) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2016 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders of Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) KSB AG interests equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2015 – 53,146 – 18,006 – 71,152 Change in 2015 – 8,352 9,510 1,158 Balance at 31 Dec. 2015 / 1 Jan. 2016 – 61,498 – 8,496 – 69,994 Change in 2016 16,991 3,232 20,223 Balance at 31 Dec. 2016 – 44,507 – 5,264 – 49,771 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 91 S tate m e n t o f C h an ge s i n Equ i ty Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Changes in Equity Other Currency the fair value Remeasurement attributable to revenue translation of financial of defined shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments benefit plans of KSB AG interests equity 787,856 – 53,146 – 3,993 – 152,199 689,953 129,751 819,704 – – 8,292 2,444 12,754 6,906 9,433 16,339 39,285 – – – 39,285 12,885 52,170 39,285 – 8,292 2,444 12,754 46,191 22,318 68,509 – 15,111 – – – – 15,111 – 2,349 – 17,460 – – – – – – – – 42 – 60 – – 70 – 172 – 97 – 269 1,783 – – 1,793 – 257 – 267 – – 267 813,771 – 61,498 – 3,342 – 139,772 720,594 149,623 870,217 Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Changes in Equity Other Currency the fair value Remeasurement attributable to revenue translation of financial of defined shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments benefit plans of KSB AG interests equity 813,771 – 61,498 – 3,342 – 139,772 720,594 149,623 870,217 – 16,991 – 1,257 – 33,414 – 17,680 3,002 – 14,678 32,943 – – – 32,943 14,834 47,777 32,943 16,991 – 1,257 – 33,414 15,263 17,836 33,099 – 9,857 – – – – 9,857 – 2,798 – 12,655 – – – – – – – – 327 – – – – 327 – – 327 – – – – – – – 836,530 – 44,507 – 4,599 – 173,186 725,673 164,661 890,334 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. 92 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS S TAT EMENT OF C ASH F LOW S (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Earnings after income taxes 47,777 52,170 Depreciation and amortisation expense / Write-ups 72,592 75,547 Increase in non-current provisions 14,952 11,027 Gain / loss on disposal of fixed assets – 208 489 Other non-cash income / expenses 4,714 – 1,728 Cash-flow 139,827 137,505 Increase in inventories – 11,834 – 4,192 Decrease / increase in trade receivables and other assets 51,091 – 60,271 Decrease / increase in current provisions – 8,475 3,503 Decrease / increase in advances received from customers – 12,161 20,237 Decrease / increase in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) – 22,690 21,115 Other non-cash expenses (operating) – 1,260 – 1,260 – 5,329 – 20,868 Cash flows from operating activities 134,498 116,637 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 90 772 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 11,775 – 6,755 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,956 4,533 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 71,775 – 75,833 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 91 257 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 925 – 1,213 Proceeds from the sale of consolidated companies and other business operations (less acquired cash and cash equivalents) – 700 Payments to acquire consolidated companies and other business operations (less acquired cash and cash equivalents) – – 352 Payments for investments in Group companies that are not fully consolidated – 12,044 – 730 Payments for commercial papers – 74,944 – Proceeds from term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) 110,027 154,121 Payments for term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) – 55,824 – 110,027 Cash flows from investing activities – 113,954 – 34,527 Dividends paid for prior year – Shareholders of KSB AG (Notes No. 8) – 9,857 – 15,111 Dividends paid for prior year – Non-controlling interests (Notes No. 8) – 2,798 – 2,349 Proceeds from / Payments for financial liabilities 3,044 – 68,740 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests – – 1,200 Cash flows from financing activities – 9,611 – 87,400 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 10,933 – 5,290 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 4,325 – 50 Effects of changes in consolidated Group 489 – 76 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 273,136 278,552 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 288,883 273,136 Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 6,357 thousand (previous year: € 7,635 thousand) and cash flows from (income) taxes totalling € – 31,807 thousand (previous year: € – 36,760 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities for the 2016 financial year include cash flows from dividends received of € 147 thousand (previous year: none). Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from interest expense of € – 7,619 thousand (previous year: € 7,340 thousand). See also Section VII. Statement of Cash Flows in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 93 S tate m e n t o f C ash F l o ws No te s NOTES I . GENER AL I NFOR M ATION ON THE GROUP KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal/Pfalz, Germany (hereinafter referred to as KSB AG ), is a capital market-oriented public limited company [Aktiengesellschaft] under the law of the Federal Republic of Germany. The company is registered with the Handelsregister [Commercial Register] of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration No. HRB 21016, and has its registered office in Frankenthal/Pfalz, Germany. In the previous year, KSB AG and its subsidiaries were included in the consolidated financial statements of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, is the parent company which prepares the consolidated financial statements for the largest group of companies. The consolidated financial statements are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The KSB Group is a global supplier of high-quality pumps, valves and related systems and also provides a wide range of services to users of these products. The Group’s operations are divided into three segments: Pumps, Valves and Service. Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and the additional requirements of German commercial law under section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. We applied the Framework, and all Standards applicable at the reporting date and adopted by the European Commission for use in the EU that are of relevance to the KSB Group, as well as the Interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee. For the purposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes applicable International Accounting Standards (IASs). The consolidated financial statements of KSB AG therefore meet the requirements of the IFRSs as applicable in the EU. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. They were prepared using the historical cost convention, with the exception of measurement at market value for available-for-sale financial assets and measurement at fair value through profit and loss for financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives). Our investments in joint ventures and associates are measured using the equity method. The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar year. The income statement as part of the statement of comprehensive income has been prepared using the nature of expense method. 94 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement are presented separately and explained in these Notes. The main accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated financial statements are presented below. The policies described were applied consistently for the reporting periods presented ­unless stated otherwise. The consolidated financial statements and the group management report, as well as the annual financial statements and management report of the Group’s parent company, are submitted to and published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The present consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of ­Management on 21 March 2017 and are expected to be approved by the Supervisory Board on 22 March 2017. New accounting principles a) A ccounting principles applied for the first time in the 2016 financial year The following new and revised Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) were required to be applied for the first time in financial year 2016: Publication in First-time EU Official application IFRS announcement Adoption Journal in the EU IAS 19 Employee Benefits 17 Dec. 2014 9 Jan. 2015 1 Feb. 2015 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2010 to 2012) 17 Dec. 2014 9 Jan. 2015 1 Feb. 2015 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2012 to 2014) 15 Dec. 2015 16 Dec. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 18 Dec. 2014 19 Dec. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 22 Sept. 2016 23 Sept. 2016 1 Jan. 2016 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 24 Nov. 2015 25 Nov. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, and IAS 38 Intangible Assets 2 Dec. 2015 3 Dec. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, and IAS 41 Agriculture 23 Nov. 2015 24 Nov. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 95 No te s The adjustments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits introduce a new option into the standard in relation to the accounting method used for defined benefit pension commitments to which employees (or third parties) contribute via compulsory contributions. The aim of the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is to remove im­ material information from the IFRS financial statements, thereby emphasising the concept of materiality. This standard also deals with the presentation of additional subtotals in the ­balance sheet and statement of comprehensive income, and with the presentation of other comprehensive income attributable to associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method. Additionally, the structure of disclosures in the Notes and the presentation of the significant accounting methods are covered by the standard. The Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception standard amending IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures clarifies the fact that exemption from the obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements also applies to parent companies that are themselves a subsidiary of an investment entity. The amendment to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements clarifies that the acquisition of interests and of additional interests in joint operations that represent a business as defined in IFRS 3 are to be accounted for in accordance with the principles for the reporting of business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3 and other applicable IFRSs, provided that this does not contradict the provisions of IFRS 11. The aim of the amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and to IAS 38 Intan­ gible Assets is to provide further guidelines for defining an acceptable method for the depreciation of property, plant and equipment. Under the Standards, revenue-based depreciation methods are not permitted for property, plant and equipment at all and for intangible assets only in certain exceptional cases. The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture mean that bearer plants that no longer undergo significant biological transformation are recognised in the same way as property, plant and equipment. The changes had no material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 96 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS b) A ccounting principles that have been published but that are not yet mandatory The following Standards and revised Standards, as well as the new Interpretation issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), were not yet mandatory and were not applied in the 2016 financial year: Publication in First-time Adoption / EU Official application IFRS announcement Publication Journal in the EU IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 11 Sept. 2014 Open Open IAS 12 Income Taxes 19 Jan. 2016 Exp. in Q2/2017 1 Jan. 2017 IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows 29 Jan. 2016 Exp. in Q2/2017 1 Jan. 2017 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting 1 Jan. 2017 Standards (2014 to 2016) 8 Dec. 2016 Exp. in Q3/2017 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 11 Sept. 2015 29 Oct. 2016 1 Jan. 2018 Clarifications of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 12 Apr. 2016 Exp. in Q1/2017 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 24 July 2014 29 Nov. 2016 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 20 June 2016 Exp. in Q3/2017 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts 12 Sept. 2016 Exp. in Q3/2017 1 Jan. 2018 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 8 Dec. 2016 Exp. in Q3/2017 1 Jan. 2018 IAS 40 Investment Property 8 Dec. 2016 Exp. in Q3/2017 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 13 Jan. 2016 Exp. in Q4/2017 1 Jan. 2019 The amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 10 Con­ solidated Financial Statements remove an inconsistency between the rules laid down in the Standards for dealing with assets being sold to an associate or joint venture and/or the contribution of assets in an associate or joint venture. In future, any gain or loss arising from the loss of control over a subsidiary that is being incorporated into a joint venture or associate must be recognised in the full amount by the investor if the transaction relates to a business as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. If, in contrast, the assets do not form a business, the gain / loss may only be recognised pro rata. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 97 No te s The amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes clarifies that write-downs to a lower market value of debt instruments measured at fair value arising from a change in market interest rates can give rise to deductible temporary differences. For clarification, rules and examples were expanded, for example, to indicate how future taxable income needs to be calculated in order to capitalise deferred tax assets. The amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows aims to add information that will help users of financial statements to assess changes in the entity’s liabilities from financing activities. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers defines principles that an entity should apply to report on the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer. Revenue is no longer realised upon the transfer of the material opportunities and risks but, in future, is realised once the customer has acquired control over the agreed goods and services and can derive benefits from these. The rules and definitions of IFRS 15 will in future replace the content of IAS 18 Revenue and of IAS 11 Construction Contracts. The transitional provisions of IFRS 15 allow both fully retrospective and modified retrospective first-time application. In 2016 KSB launched a Group-wide project to introduce IFRS 15. Based on the three business models of Plant Engineering, Series Production and Service, this includes taking stock of the relevant contracts in the individual Group companies. Using the results from this analysis of contracts, we will be developing a specialist concept for bringing the recognition of sales revenue into line with the new IFRS 15 provisions. The IT processes and systems in place will also be analysed to determine the need for action, necessary adjustments will be implemented, and the Group companies will be given training in the new IFRS 15 rules. Based on our current information, KSB will be applying the standard for the first time for the 2018 financial year using the modified retrospective approach, i.e. the comparative period will include the amounts reported in accordance with the earlier standards. The cumulative impact of applying IFRS 15 will be reported as an adjustment to the opening equity balance at the time of first-time application. We currently expect only very limited changes to the total amount of sales revenue recorded from contracts with customers. Additionally, the timing of the sales revenue will change for certain types of contract. For example, some sales revenue might be recognised at an earlier stage if there are variable remuneration components or if the transaction price is allocated to different performance obligations. Based on the analysis conducted to date, we expect the vast majority of construction contracts that are currently recognised using the percentage-of-completion method to continue to fulfil the requirements for sales revenue recognition over time. At the same time, the company expects additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures in the Notes. Based on current knowledge, 98 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS we do not expect any material impact on the consolidated financial statements, which include sales revenue recognised by PoC of € 407 million and receivables recognised by PoC of € 76 million for 2016. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments contains revised guidelines on classifying and measuring fi­ nancial instruments, and will replace IAS 39 in future. Depending on their contractual cash flows and the business model used to manage them, financial assets are measured either at amortised cost, or at fair value directly in equity or at fair value through profit or loss. When recognising impairments, IFRS 9 considers expected losses, and not, as under the ­previous rules, incurred losses, in order to ensure adequate risk provisioning. There are also new rules on the presentation of capitalised hedges to improve the depiction of an entity’s risk management activities. The Group cannot yet definitively assess the impact of applying the standard for the first time. We do not currently expect the effects on the company’s r­ esults of operations, financial position and net assets to be material. The disclosures will, however, be extended. The new classification rules will only result in financial asset items being reallocated. The current view is that the transition from the incurred loss model to the expected loss model for the calculation of impairment of financial assets will not result in material changes. The Group already monitors all receivables very closely, demanding ­advances wherever possible to minimise risk and applying strict rules in the event of any payment default. Consequently, significant effects would only occur if our current customers were to face unprecedented serious payment difficulties. There are currently no indications of any such difficulties. Similarly, no significant adjustments are expected from the change in how financial liabilities are measured, given that these are currently measured in full at amortised cost. In the current year, we will be reviewing the extent to which we apply the new standards on hedge accounting, including from a cost / benefit perspective. The amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment relate to the accounting treatment of cash-settled share-based payment transactions. Some of the new provisions concern the calculation of the fair value of obligations resulting from share-based payments. The changes to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts aim to reduce the impact of the differing start dates for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and the successor standard to IFRS 4, above all for entities with comprehensive insurance activities. IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration clarifies the exchange rate to be used on initial recognition for the conversion of foreign currency transactions that include the receipt or payment of advance consideration. IAS 40 Investment Property has been amended in order to clarify that an entity may only transfer a property to or out of its investment property portfolio if there is evidence of a change of use. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 99 No te s IFRS 16 Leases specifies the new rules on recognising, measuring, presenting and disclosing leases. The classification into operating and finance leases shall no longer apply to lessees in future. Pursuant to IFRS 16, all leases shall as a general rule be accounted for in the form of a right of use with corresponding lease obligation. These are to be reported in separate balance sheet items under fixed assets or liabilities, or may be described in the Notes. As far as lessees are concerned, the new standard offers various accounting options. Leases with a term of less than 12 months and low-value assets may be capitalised. If this option is used, the lease will be accounted for in a comparable way to that stipulated to date under IAS 17 for operating leases. A further simplification is provided by the option of applying the new rules to a lease portfolio, provided that the resulting effect does not involve any ­significant change compared with an individual approach. Comprehensive qualitative and quantitative disclosures will be required in the Notes in future. Based on current knowledge, IFRS 16 will be applied for the first time on a modified, retrospective basis within the KSB Group by recording the cumulative effect from the first-time application in equity. On this basis, only those existing contracts that are already classified as leases under IAS 17 will be covered by the scope of IFRS 16. Other existing contracts need not be reviewed to determine whether they would be covered by the new standard based on the amended definitions in IFRS 16. For the Group, this means that the assets and liabilities for operating leases already in place must be reported. The discounted residual lease payments are to be recognised as a lease liability. The right of use can either be recognised at the amount that would have resulted from application of the standard at the start of the lease or, more simply, at the amount of the liability (adjusted to take account of any payments before the lease began). Information on the current leases applicable within the Group are included in Section IX. Other Disclosures of the present Notes. Based on current information, we will be exercising the options applicable to leases with a term of less than 12 months and low-value assets in such a way that we account for these leases in a comparable way to that stipulated to date under IAS 17 for operating leases. Consequently, we expect a balance sheet extension. This will not, however, correspond to the full scope of the operating lease volume (€ 52.9 million) presented in Section IX. Other Disclosures. There will also be a change in the income statement, given that lease payments for operating leases currently reported under other expenses will in future be partially replaced with a depreciation expense for rights of use and interest expenses for liabilities from leases. Accounting for finance leases in place will not be affected by the new standard. 100 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS In order to examine the impact of these changes on the KSB Group more accurately, we have already prepared an appropriate project plan. We will be carrying out a detailed impact analysis during the first half of 2017 on the basis of the relevant contracts for the parent company KSB AG, reviewing the need for any process adjustments or IT system adjustments. On the basis of these findings, we will then extend the scope of the impact analysis, preparing a questionnaire on IFRS 16 to be completed by each Group company. Once the r­ eturned questionnaires have been analysed, any necessary system adjustments will be initiated, with the corresponding changes being made to the reporting package and accounting ­instructions. These stages have been scheduled for completion by the end of 2017. Only then will it be possible to make an in-depth conclusive assessment of the impact of applying IFRS 16 for the first time. As a matter of principle, we have not voluntarily applied the above-mentioned new or revised Standards or the Interpretation prior to their effective dates. We do not anticipate any, or any material, impact on our net assets, financial position or results of operations. With regard to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases, please refer to the comments in the previous sections. I I . BASI S OF C ONSOLIDATION Consolidated Group In addition to KSB AG, 9 German and 79 foreign companies (previous year: 9 German and 80 foreign companies) were fully consolidated. We hold a majority interest, either directly or indirectly, in the voting power of these subsidiaries which the KSB Group has the option to control under IFRS 10. The Thai company KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, and the Indian company KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) are included in the group of fully consolidated affiliates despite the fact that we hold less than 50 % of the voting rights. We do, however, have the power to determine their business and financial policies and thus the level of variable returns. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 101 No te s Companies that were not consolidated due to there being no material impact are reported ­under financial assets – other investments. The following table shows the subsidiaries with non-controlling interests that are material subsidiaries of the KSB Group. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. MAT ER IA L SU B SIDIA R IES WITH NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Noncontrolling Earnings after income taxes interest in attributable to Accumulated Name and seat capital non-controlling interests non-controlling interests (€ thousands) 2016 / 2015 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 GIW Industries, Inc., USA 49.0 % 4,860 2,780 29,927 23,738 KSB Pumps Limited, India 59.5 % 4,889 4,939 53,604 49,856 KSB America Corporation, USA 49.0 % 245 175 25,062 22,348 KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., China 20.0 % 491 – 347 12,150 12,085 Individually immaterial fully consolidated subsidiaries with non-controlling interests 4,349 5,338 43,918 41,596 Total amount of non-controlling interests 14,834 12,885 164,661 149,623 The summarised financial information regarding the KSB Group’s material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests is provided below. This information corresponds to the amounts ­given in the subsidiaries’ financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS prior to intercompany eliminations. 102 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS SU MMA R ISED BA LA NCE SHEET GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) / 31 Dec. 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Non-current assets 58,303 55,351 41,469 33,981 35,399 35,652 31,474 33,719 Current assets 62,755 79,303 95,337 93,248 57,686 55,279 149,400 133,166 Non-current liabilities – 6,899 – 6,812 – 3,327 – 2,473 – – – – Current liabilities – 33,687 – 60,001 – 44,527 – 42,092 – 27,931 – 32,378 – 127,922 – 108,966 Net assets 80,472 67,841 88,952 82,664 65,154 58,553 52,952 57,919 SU MMA R ISED STAT EMENT OF COMP REHENSIV E INCOME GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales revenue 134,612 139,127 109,147 113,399 – – 129,850 134,734 Earnings after income taxes 9,919 5,673 9,026 9,391 4,457 2,975 2,540 – 1,399 Other comprehensive income 2,712 6,079 – 163 4,377 2,144 5,792 – 7,507 3,680 Comprehensive income 12,631 11,752 8,863 13,768 6,601 8,767 – 4,967 2,281 Other comprehensive income attribut ­ able to non-controlling interests 1,329 2,979 – 97 2,603 1,051 2,838 – 1,501 736 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 6,189 5,758 5,270 8,186 3,234 4,296 – 993 456 Dividends paid to non-controlling ­i nterests – – – 1,531 – 1,599 – – – – C OND ENSED STAT EMENT OF CASH FLOWS GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Cash flows from operating activities 23,570 – 3,562 7,562 15,749 3,819 3,534 9,660 5,005 Cash flows from investing activities – 6,477 – 14,594 – 8,235 – 2,082 – – – 1,112 – 3,375 Cash flows from financing activities – 18,072 18,020 – 2,848 – 6,698 – 12,257 – 12,556 – 11,203 – 8,619 Changes in cash and cash ­e quivalents – 979 – 136 – 3,521 6,969 – 8,438 – 9,022 – 2,655 – 6,989 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1,169 1,173 31,707 23,299 22,956 28,832 5,301 11,430 Effects of exchange rate changes – 10 132 54 1,439 332 3,146 – 355 860 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 180 1,169 28,240 31,707 14,850 22,956 2,291 5,301 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 103 No te s NINOMIT VPH -Tekniikka Oy, a Finnish company previously not consolidated due to there being no material impact, was merged with the fully consolidated company KSB Finland Oy on 1 January 2016. We had acquired the shares in 2015. In addition, the Slovenian company KSB Pumps and valves L.t.d., Domžale, which was previously not consolidated due to there being no material impact, was also included in the group of consolidated companies. This affiliate, which was consolidated for the first time, was established some years earlier. Consolidation of the two companies had the following impact on the consolidated balance sheet: (€ thousands) 2016 Non-current assets – 498 Current assets 1,013 Assets 515 Equity – 327 Non-current liabilities 17 Current liabilities 825 Equity and liabilities 515 The new company PT. KSB Sales Indonesia, established in 2016, was included in the group of consolidated companies on a fully consolidated basis. The already fully consolidated PT. KSB Sales Indonesia holds 99 % of the shares in this company, with KSB Aktiengesellschaft holding the remaining 1 %. There was no impact on the consolidated financial statements, as the com­ pany’s business operations formed part of the already fully consolidated PT. KSB Indonesia prior to the new company being established. On 28 November 2016, KSB AG increased its share in KSB Mörck AB, Gothenburg (Sweden), from 55 % to 100 % at a purchase price of € 3.6 million. On the basis of a written put option, the anticipated acquisition method was applied back in 2015 to report a notional acquisition of the remaining shares by way of a purchase price liability of € 3.5 million. The difference of € 0.1 million was recognised in financial income / expense under expenses from the remeasurement of financial instruments. The impact on the consolidated financial statements is therefore not material. In China, we transferred the foundry operations of KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, to a new, independent company by the name of KSB Shanghai Precision Casting Co., Ltd. This did not have any impact on the consolidated financial statements. The Italian company KSB Service Italia S.r.l., Scorzè, which previously was fully consolidated, was merged with another fully consolidated company, Milan-based KSB Italia S.p.A., with ­effect from 1 November 2016. Again, this did not have any impact on the consolidated financial statements. 104 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The company Rotary Equipment Services Limited based in Loughborough in the UK was liquidated in August 2016. The impact on the consolidated financial statements was not material. The Dutch company VRS Valve Reconditioning Services B.V., the business operations of which we sold in February 2016, was liquidated with effect from the financial year end. The impact on the consolidated financial statements was not material. In December 2016 we sold the French service company Metis Levage S.A.S., based in Villefranche sur Saône. The resulting impact on these consolidated financial statements was not material. A full list of the shareholdings held by the KSB Group is provided at the end of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidation methods For the purposes of consolidation, the effects of any intercompany transactions are eliminated in full. Any receivables and liabilities between the consolidated companies are offset against each other, and any unrealised gains and losses recognised in fixed assets and inventories are eliminated. Any revenues from intercompany sales are offset against the corresponding expenses. Capital consolidation uses the purchase method of accounting pursuant to IFRS 3. This means that the acquisition cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiaries is eliminated against the remeasured equity attributable to the parent at the date of acquisition. Any goodwill created from the application of the purchase method denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the KSB Group is measured at the relevant current closing rate. Goodwill is reported under intangible assets and tested for impairment at least once a year. If an impairment is identified, an impairment loss is recognised. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost remaining after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss in the year it occurred. Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB AG are reported as non-controlling interests. Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (€). Amounts in this report are presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding rules. Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional currency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous year, the functional currency is exclusively the local currency of the company consolidated, as it operates as a financially, economically and organisationally independent entity. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 105 No te s Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Measurement effects are recognised in the income statement. When translating financial statements of consolidated companies that are not prepared in euro, assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts and cash flow statement items are translated at average annual exchange rates (modified closing rate method). Gains and losses from the translation of items of assets and liabilities compared with their translation in the previous year are taken directly to equity in other comprehensive income and reported under currency translation differences. They amount to € – 49,771 thousand (previous year: € – 69,994 thousand). The effect of currency translation adjustments ­taken directly to equity on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and financial assets was a gain of € 8,827 thousand (previous year: gain of € 4,935 thousand). The exchange rates of our most important currencies to one euro are: Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 2016 2015 US dollar 1.0541 1.0887 1.1067 1.1099 Brazilian real 3.4305 4.3117 3.8606 3.6934 Indian rupee 71.5935 72.0215 74.3500 71.1886 Chinese yuan 7.3202 7.0608 7.3494 6.9748 I I I . AC C OUNTI NG P OLICIES Acquisition and production costs In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes attributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Purchase price reductions are deducted from cost. In addition to direct material and labour costs, production cost includes production-related administrative expenses. General administrative expenses and selling expenses are not capitalised. Borrowing costs as defined in IAS 23 that can be directly allocated to the acquisition or production of qualifying assets are capitalised from 2009. As in the previous year no such borrowing costs were incurred. Fair value Fair value is the price that independent market participants would, under standard market conditions, receive when selling an asset or pay when transferring a liability at the measurement 106 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS date. This applies irrespectively of whether the price is directly observable or has been estimated using a measurement method. The KSB Group defined a monitoring framework concept for determining fair value. This includes a measurement team with general responsibility for monitoring all key measurements at fair value and notifying management and, if necessary, the Audit Committee of any major ­issues. For the purposes of calculating fair value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from market participants or estimates derived from these. In a first step we regularly review the extent to which there are current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use the market-based approach (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). Based upon the input factors used in the measurement methods, fair values are assigned to ­different levels of the fair value hierarchy. Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 2: M  easurement parameters that are not the quoted prices taken into account for level 1, but that are observable for the asset or the liability either directly as a price or ­indirectly derived from prices Level 3: Measurement parameters for assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data If input factors categorised into different levels are included in the fair value measurement, the measurement must be categorised in its entirety in the level of the lowest level input factor that is material for the entire measurement. We record reclassifications between different levels in the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. There were no reclassifications carried out in the year under review. Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability or equity instrument of another enterprise. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 107 No te s Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a party to a financial instrument. When the contractual right to payments from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial liabilities are derecognised at the time when the contractual obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised at their value at the settlement date; only derivatives are recognised at their value at the trade date. This applies to primary financial instruments such as trade receivables and monetary receivables, as well as to trade payables and financial liabilities (from or to third parties as well as affiliates and equity investments). a) Primary financial instruments Within the KBS Group, primary financial instruments are allocated to the following categories as financial assets or liabilities: Loans and receivables (LaR) Loans and financial assets not quoted in an active market Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) Liabilities that are not quoted in an active market, such as trade payables Available-for-sale (AfS) financial assets Non-derivative financial instruments that are not allocated to any other measurement category, such as investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries or securities None of our financial instruments are classified as “held-to-maturity investments”. Financial instruments are carried at fair value on initial recognition, while LaR and FLAC take into account the transaction costs. Subsequent measurement is based on fair value for category AfS and on amortised cost for categories LaR and FLAC. Subsequent measurement of loans and receivables is based on amortised cost using the effective interest method. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments are based on prices quoted in active markets on the reporting date. Primary financial instruments classified as “available-for-sale financial instruments” are recognised directly in equity in other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes in the fair value of financial instruments”. They are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are sold or deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. If an asset is derecognised, the accumulated other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement. 108 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS As in the previous year, we did not make any reclassifications between the individual measurement categories. We do not currently make use of the fair value option. b) Derivative financial instruments We only use derivatives for hedging purposes. We hedge both future cash flows and existing recognised underlyings against foreign currency and interest rate risks (cash flow hedges). The hedging instruments used are exclusively currency forwards, currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with prime-rated banks. We hedge currency risks primarily for transactions in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimised for long-term borrowings at floating rates of interest. Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the effective portions of the currency derivatives are recognised under other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity for as long as the underlying transaction is not recognised in the income statement. Changes in the market value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised under other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity. The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be positive or negative. Fair value is the amount that we would receive or have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instrument. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reporting date. All our information is obtained from recognised external sources. Currency forwards and interest rate swaps are reported under other receivables and other ­current assets, and under miscellaneous other liabilities. The maturities of the currency derivatives used are, as in the previous year, mostly between one and two years, and those of interest rate derivatives are one year. The maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the period in which the forecast transactions are expected to occur. In the year under review, almost all hedged forecast transactions occurred as expected. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 109 No te s Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at (acquisition or production) cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. Depreciation / amortisation is reported under “Depreciation and amortisation expense” in the income statement. The underlying useful lives of intangible assets – excluding goodwill (indefinite useful life) – is between two and five years. If the reasons for an impairment loss in a previous period no longer apply, it is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. We test goodwill for impairment once a year. This relates to cash-generating units (CGU), which at KSB are generally the legal entities. Occasionally a group of cash-generating units may also serve as the basis, provided these units reflect the lowest level on which we monitor goodwill. The goodwill (and, if necessary, other assets) is reduced by the difference in value if the recover­ able amount – the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use – is lower than the carrying amount of the CGU. Reversal of an impairment loss from an earlier period is not possible. In addition, a review of impairment is always carried out when events or circumstances (“trigger events”) suggest that the value could be impaired. We apply the discounted cash flow model to determine the recoverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRS) applied were taken from a multi-year ­financial plan (generally covering a maximum of five years), the basis of which was adopted in December taking into account the medium-term strategy approved by management for the r­ espective cash-generating unit. We carried out this planning based on certain assumptions which were drawn from both forecasts from external sources, e.g. current German Engineering Federation (VDMA) publications, and our own experience-based knowledge of markets and competitors. In our calculations we consistently extrapolated the result of the last plan year as a constant, considering that level to be achievable in the long term. We derived growth rates taking account of the rate of inflation and estimates with regard to regional and segment-specific circumstances. If the recoverable amount is calculated as the fair value less costs to sell, the costs to sell are, based on past experience, set at a maximum of 2 % of the fair value. For the purposes of cal­ culating value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from market participants (Level 1) or estimates derived from these (Level 2). In the absence of any market estimates, we make use of experience-based assumptions of the management (Level 3). In a first step we review the extent to which there are current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use the market-based approach (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). 110 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS When acquiring companies we apply purchase price allocations and determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recognised by the selling party, we also assess marketing-related aspects (primarily brands or trademarks and competitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily customer lists, customer relations and orders on hand), contract-related aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, work, purchasing and employment contracts) as well as technology-related aspects (primarily patents, know-how and databases). To determine values we primarily apply the residual value method, the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures. Development costs are capitalised as internally generated intangible assets at cost where the criteria described in IAS 38 are met and reduced by straight-line amortisation at the time of their capitalisation. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably distinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. Property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 16, property, plant and equipment is carried at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation over its useful life. If an asset’s recoverable amount is lower than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. If the reasons for an impairment loss recognised in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation period. As far as government grants recognised which are to be held for specific periods of time are concerned, we expect that these periods will be complied with. Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 111 No te s The following useful lives are applied: U SEFU L LIVES OF PR OPERTY, P LANT AND EQUIP MENT Buildings 10 to 50 years Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 25 years Leases IAS 17 defines a lease as an arrangement under which a lessor provides a lessee with the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time in exchange for a payment. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incident to ownership to the lessee. Otherwise, such transactions are classified as operating leases. Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liability is recognised in the same amount for the future lease payment. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation over its useful life or the shorter lease term. Non-current financial assets Interest-bearing loans and investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries are measured at amortised cost. Financial instruments are carried at their fair values at the reporting date. Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are companies in which the parties exercise joint control (joint venture) or have the power to exercise significant influence over the com­ panies’ operating and financial policies (associate); this is usually the case where an entity holds between 20 % and 50 % of the voting power. These assets are recognised at cost at the time of acquisition. If the costs of acquisition exceed the share of the net assets, adjustments are made on the basis of the fair value (pro rata hidden reserves and liabilities). The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill. It forms part of the carrying amount of the joint venture or associate and is not amortised. For subsequent measurement, the carrying amounts are increased / reduced annually by the pro-rata earnings, distributed dividends or other changes in equity of the joint venture or the associate. If local accounting principles differ from the accounting methods used in the Group, we make the necessary adjustments. The share of earnings is reported in the consolidated income statement in a separate line (earnings from investments accounted for using the equity method), and changes such as currency translation effects are taken 112 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS ­ irectly to Group equity. If the losses attributable to the KSB Group correspond to the carrying d amount of the company or exceed this, they are not recognised unless KSB has entered into obligations or has made payments for the company. Intercompany gains and losses from transactions between Group companies and investments accounted for using the equity method are offset against the carrying amount in profit or loss. At each reporting date we review whether there are any objective indications of impairment, and calculate the amount of such impairment if required. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount of an investment, it is written down to the recoverable amount. Any impairments or reversals of impairments are ­reported in the consolidated income statement under financial income / expense. Inventories Pursuant to IAS 2, inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value as at the reporting date. Cost is measured using the weighted average method. Write-downs to the net realisable value take account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods or impaired marketability. This also applies if the selling price is lower than production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). Advance payments made on inventories are also presented here because of the correlation and expected realisation of these advances (through conversion into inventories) within the normal business cycle. Advances received from customers are recognised as current liabilities. Construction contracts under IAS 11 In the case of construction contracts covered by IAS 11, we apply the percentage of completion (PoC) method. According to this method, a production order is a contract for the customer-­ specific production of individual items or a number of items that, in terms of their design, technology and function or with regard to their use, are linked to one another or dependent on each other. If the earnings from a production order can be reliably estimated, we recognise the revenue based on the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion of ­contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs at the reporting date. Contract revenue consists of all contractually agreed revenues, as well as additional claims and incentive payments that are likely to result in revenue and are capable of being reliably measured. Contract revenue may vary from one period to the next, for instance because of cost escalation clauses, variations or penalties. It is measured at the fair value received or receiv­ able. If the earnings from a production order cannot be reliably estimated, revenue will only CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 113 No te s be recognised in the amount of the contract costs incurred that are likely to be covered and the contract costs recognised as an expense for the period in which they are incurred. The percentage contract revenue less the related advances received from customers is reported – depending on the balance – in trade receivables and PoC or within other financial liabilities. Effects in the period are recognised in the income statement as part of sales revenue. Trade receivables and other current assets Trade receivables and other current assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost. Low-­ interest or non-interest-bearing receivables are discounted. In addition, we take account of identifiable risks by charging specific write-downs using allowance accounts. Receivables that are not individually impaired are subdivided into risk classes according to how overdue they are, and written down on a portfolio basis using historical default rates. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). We hedge part of the credit risk exposure of our receivables (for further explanations, refer to the Financial Risks – Credit Risk section). The prepaid expenses reported relate to accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only be classified as an expense after the reporting date. Cash and cash equivalents Cash (cash and sight deposits) and cash equivalents (short-term, highly liquid financial investments that are readily convertible to defined amounts of cash, and that are subject to only ­immaterial fluctuations in terms of their value) are recognised at amortised cost. Assets held for sale Pursuant to IFRS 5, non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if it is highly likely that the carrying amount will be realised primarily by a sales transaction and not through continued use of that asset. It must be assumed that the sale will be completed within one year. If the Group is committed to a sale that involves loss of control of a subsidiary, all assets and liabilities of that subsidiary will be classified as held for sale, provided the above conditions are met. The intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of the held-for-sale assets are no longer amortised / depreciated, but instead are recognised at the lower of the ­carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 114 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Deferred taxes We account for deferred taxes in accordance with IAS 12 using the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets and liabilities ­differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS financial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or income. We also recognise deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes are also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always offset where they relate to the same tax authority. Changes to deferred taxes in the consolidated balance sheet generally result in deferred tax expense or income. If, however, a direct entry is made in other comprehensive income in equity, the change in deferred taxes is also taken directly to equity. Provisions a) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations pursuant to IAS 19 are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. They are measured using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are taken directly to other comprehensive income and reported in equity under “Remeasurement of defined benefit plans”. The actuarial demographic assumptions and the setting of the discount rate (based on senior, fixed-income corporate bonds) and other measurement parameters (for example income and pension trends) are based on best ­estimates. Net interest is calculated by multiplying the discount rate with the net liability (pension obli­ gation minus plan assets) or the net asset value that results if the plan assets exceed the pension obligation. The defined benefit costs include the service cost, which is included in staff costs under pension costs, and the net interest income or expense on the net liability or net realisable value, which is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses or under interest and similar income. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 115 No te s KSB companies that use a defined contribution pension plan do not recognise provisions. The premium payments are recognised directly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff costs. Other than an obligation to pay premiums, these companies have no further obligations. Consequently, the insurance risk remains with the insured parties. b) Other provisions Provisions are recognised if a past event results in a present legal or constructive external obligation that the company has no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. The amount of the provision corresponds to the best estimate of the settlement amount of the current obligation on the reporting date. Any more or less secure recourse or reimbursement claims are recognised as separate assets. Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria set out in IAS 37 are met. Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are material. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are recognised with their amortised costs using the effective interest rate method. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be present obligations that arise from past events where it is possible but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits. Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at the reporting date. 116 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Income and expenses Sales revenue consists of charges for deliveries and services billed to customers. This relates to revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale from the production, sale and trade of machinery, systems and other industrial products, particularly pumps and valves. In addition, sales revenue from services and licence income is reported under sales ­revenue for the period concerned in accordance with the economic content of the underlying contract. Sales revenue is recognised pursuant to IAS 18 when the deliveries have been effected or the services have been rendered and the significant risks and rewards associated with ownership have thus been transferred to the customer. At the time of revenue recognition, receipt of the consideration must be probable and the amount of sales revenue must be reliably measur­ able. A reliable estimation of the associated costs and potential return of the goods must also be possible. We essentially recognise sales revenue from the delivery of standard products upon handover to the carrier. For some international deliveries, the contractual risk transfer takes place when the goods are loaded onto a cargo ship in the port or delivered to the customer in the destination country. In these cases, sales revenue is recognised on the basis of the contractually agreed INCOTERMS. For certain deliveries and services, a declaration of acceptance by the customer is required for the recognition of sales revenue. In individual cases and under strict conditions, sales revenue is recognised prior to delivery of the goods (so-called bill and hold arrangements). Sales revenue for customer-specific construction contracts is reported using the percentage of completion method. We use the so-called cost-to-cost method, according to which the proceeds determined at the beginning of the sales order are compared with the estimated costs, and the sales revenue of a period is determined according to the percentage of completion measured on the basis of the costs incurred; see the explanations on “Construction contracts under IAS 11”. Sales allowances reduce sales revenue. Interest income and expense are recognised in the period in which they occur. Dividend income from investments is collected when the legal entitlement to payment is created. Operating expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the services are utilised. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 117 No te s Income taxes are calculated in accordance with the statutory tax rules in the countries in which the Group operates. Deferred taxes are accounted for on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted income tax rates. Estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting policies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We continuously review the estimates and assumptions that we apply. If more recent information and additional knowledge are avail­ able, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that result in material differences are explained separately. Impairment tests for goodwill, which are conducted at least once per year, require an estimate of the recoverable amounts for each cash-generating unit (CGU). These correspond to the higher amount from the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The earnings forecast on the basis of these estimates are affected by various factors, which may include exchange rate fluctuations, progress in Group integration or the expectations for the economic development of these units. Although management believes that the assumptions used to calculate the ­recoverable amount are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment loss. Estimates and assumptions must also be made to review the value of assets. For each asset it must be verified to what extent there are indications of an impairment. When determining the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, the estimation of the relevant useful life is subject to uncertainty. The measurement of doubtful receivables is based on forecasts about the creditworthiness of customers. A material change in the assumptions or circumstances can lead in future to additional impairment losses or reversals. 118 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS For construction contracts with clients in the project business we recognise sales revenue according to the percentage of completion method. This requires estimates regarding the total contract costs and revenue, contract risks as well as other relevant factors. These estimates are reviewed regularly by those with operative responsibility and adjusted where necessary. Provisions for employee benefits, especially pensions and similar obligations, are determined according to actuarial principles which are based on statistical and other factors so as to ­anticipate future events. Material factors are the reported market discount rates and life expectancy. The actuarial assumptions made may differ from actual developments as a result of changing market and economic conditions, and this can have material effects on the amount of provisions and thus on the company’s overall net assets, financial position and results of operations. Other provisions are reported based on the best possible estimate of the probability of future outflows. The later, actual outflow can, however, differ from the estimate as a result of changed economic, political or legal conditions. This will be reflected in additional expenses or income from reversals. The global scope of our activities must be taken into account in relation to taxes on income. Based on our operative activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is required for determining our tax obligations. Uncertainty may arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. Uncertain tax assets and liabilities are recognised if their probability of occurrence exceeds 50 %. For the reporting, the best estimate is based on the expected tax payment. Although we believe we have made a reasonable estimate regarding any tax uncertainties, it is possible that the actual tax obligation will differ from our original estimate. With regard to future tax benefits, we assess their realisability as of every reporting date. For this reason, we only recognise deferred tax assets if sufficient taxable income is available in future. In assessing this future taxable income within a planning horizon of normally five years it must be taken into account that expected future business developments are subject to uncertainties and are in some cases excluded from control by company management (for example changes to applicable tax legislation). If we come to the conclusion that previously reported deferred tax assets cannot be realised because of changed assumptions, then the assets will be written down by the appropriate amount. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 119 No te s Maturities Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. Assets that can only be realised after more than 12 months, as well as liabilities that only ­become due after more than 12 months, are also classified as current if they are attributable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. An operating cycle of more than 12 months typically ­applies to made-to-order production (construction contracts). Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. 120 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS I V. BALANC E SHEET DISCLOSURES 1 Intangible assets STAT EMENT OF C H A NG ES IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in Intangible assets (€ thousands) such rights and assets Goodwill Advance payments Total Historical cost 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January 61,708 58,279 103,910 103,019 8,550 8,543 174,168 169,841 Changes in consolidated Group 2 – 135 – 122 – – 137 – 122 Currency translation adjustments 700 – 717 482 525 – – 1,182 – 192 Other 6,502 – 15 -338 – 11 – – 6,164 – 26 Additions 2,519 2,785 – – 7,520 5,527 10,039 8,312 Addition from business combination – 40 – 499 – – – 539 Disposals 726 584 – – 14 3,600 740 4,184 Reclassifications 1,061 1,920 – – – 275 – 1,920 786 – Reclassification to assets held for sale – 599 – – – – – – 599 – Balance at 31 December 71,167 61,708 104,189 103,910 15,781 8,550 191,137 174,168 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January 51,032 48,161 21,061 10,239 – – 72,093 58,400 Currency translation adjustments 605 – 438 46 – 14 – – 651 – 452 Other 2,089 –8 – 338 – 10 – – 1,751 – 18 Additions 4,447 3,838 6,478 10,846 – – 10,925 14,684 Disposals 650 521 – – – – 650 521 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – Reclassification to assets held for sale – 229 – – – – – – 229 – Balance at 31 December 57,294 51,032 27,247 21,061 – – 84,541 72,093 Carrying amount at 31 December 13,873 10,676 76,942 82,849 15,781 8,550 106,596 102,075 The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 10.0 million (previous year: € 8.3 million) primarily concerned, as in the previous year, advance payments and own work capitalised for a new software to be deployed in Sales. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 121 No te s As in the previous year, we did not capitalise any development costs in the financial year because not all of the comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. The “Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in such rights and assets” item as in the previous year includes € 9.3 million of software including software licences valid for a limited period. As in the previous year, there are no restrictions on ownership or use. The carrying amounts of the cash-generating units in connection with the impairment testing of goodwill do not contain any items relating to taxes or financing activities. To determine the discount rate, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), taking into account a peer group. Under this method, first the cost of equity is determined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then the individual capital components are weighted in accordance with the capital structure taking account of the peer group. The interest rate for risk-free 30-year Bunds was used as a base rate. This rate was 0.5 % in the year under review (previous year: 1.5 %). The market risk premium was set at 5.75 %, which was unchanged on the previous year, with a beta factor of 1.06 (previous year: 1.03). In addition, country-specific tax rates and country risk premiums are taken into account individually for each cash-generating unit (CGU). As in the previous year, we applied growth rates of between 0.75 % and 1.25 %. D ISC OU NT R AT ES Before taxes in % (value in use) 2016 2015 Companies in Germany 8.5 – 8.6 9.6 – 9.8 Companies in the Netherlands 8.1 9.3 Companies in Italy 13.3 – 13.5 13.7 – 14.3 Companies in the USA 9.1 10.4 Companies in South Africa 12.8 13.8 Companies in the rest of Europe 8.3 – 14.5 8.9 – 15.4 After taxes in % (fair value less costs to sell) 2016 2015 Companies in South Korea 7.3 8.3 122 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS GOODW ILL Name of CGU / (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea 27,432 27,188 DP industries B.V., the Netherlands 18,285 18,285 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle ( ST II ), France 5,689 5,689 REEL s.r.l., Italy – 5,526 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 3,150 3,150 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Germany 2,980 2,980 KSB Finland Oy, Finland 2,603 2,468 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., South Africa 2,059 1,755 KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S. , France 1,412 1,412 63,610 68,453 Other 16 (previous year: 17) companies 13,332 14,396 Total 76,942 82,849 The impairment test performed annually resulted in goodwill impairments for the cashgenerating units listed below: IMPA IR MENT LOSS ON GOODWILL Recoverable amount Impairment loss Name of CGU Segment Discount factor (€ thousands) (€ thousands) REEL s.r.l., Italy Pumps 13.5 % 2,412 5,526 KSB , Inc. – Western Division, USA Service 9.1 % – 952 Total 31 Dec. 2016 6,478 REEL s.r.l., Italy Pumps 13.9 % 8,367 4,155 KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S. , France Service 13.4 % 1,058 3,179 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S. , France Service 11.7 % 1,425 2,609 KSB Service Est S.A.S. , France Service 12.1 % 2,546 903 Total 31 Dec. 2015 10,846 The recognised impairments were due to continuing economic difficulties and were reported in the income statement under the “Impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment” item. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 123 No te s D ETA ILED INFOR MAT ION ON K EY GOODWILL ITEMS Carrying amount of Percentage Method for assessing Cash-generating goodwill of total Growth Underlying assumptions, the value of the unit Method (€ million) goodwill Discount rate rate corporate planning underlying assumption KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Fair value less 27.4 36 % 7.3 % 1.00 Improvement in longConsideration of macro-­ costs to sell after taxes term business cycle economic key data and (costs to sell of expectations in shipexternal market research € 250 thousand) building (liquefied gas tankers) resulting in tangible improvement in market growth rates Little change in exchange rates DP industries B.V. Value in use 18.3 24 % 8.1 % 1.25 Greater customer focus Consideration of macro-­ before Low to significant economic key data and taxes market growth rates internal estimates of the relevant purchasing and sales departments For the annual impairment test, the following assumptions on order intake figures, sales revenue and operating result are made for goodwill considered material: Cash-generating unit Order intake Sales revenue EBIT Planning time horizon KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Strong growth, Significant growth, Strong growth, 7 years on average on average on average, as a result of sales revenue and cost planning DP industries B.V. Significant growth, Significant growth, Moderate growth, 5 years on average on average on average, as a result of sales revenue and cost planning 124 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The business performance of KSB Seil Co., Ltd. is closely linked to the economic development of the long-cycle shipbuilding industry. This is also documented in the market development studies from external sources we used, which contain forecasts for the next seven years. Correspondingly, we have selected a monitoring period of seven years instead of our commonly used five-year period for impairment testing of this cash-generating unit. For the purposes of calculating the fair value less costs to sell of the South Korean KSB Seil Co., Ltd., the input factors used for the discounted cash flow method are largely based on observ­ able market data (base interest rate) or freely accessible information (for example sovereign risk classification, tax rates, procurement prices, sales prices, market studies). As well as impairment testing, sensitivity analyses are conducted for each cash-generating unit. A 5 % increase in the relevant discount rate or a 0.25 percentage point fall in the growth rate would not necessitate any further write-downs. Moreover, the sensitivity analysis regarding the impact of a 10 % fall in sales revenue, with a corresponding reduction in EBIT, would also not necessitate any further write-downs. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on other intangible assets in the reporting year. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 125 No te s 2 Property, plant and equipment STAT EMENT OF C H A NGES IN P ROP ERTY, P LANT AND EQUIP MENT Other equipment, Advance payments Property, plant Plant and operating and and assets under and equipment (€ thousands) Land and buildings machinery office equipment construction Total Historical cost 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January 344,473 332,531 551,208 528,014 212,750 205,681 53,791 34,359 1,162,222 1,100,585 Changes in consolidated Group 10 – 104 12 – 70 102 – 35 – – 124 – 209 Currency translation adjustments 5,482 815 6,873 3,601 2,878 – 163 92 2,523 15,325 6,776 Other 6 – – 60 –8 – 20 – – –2 40 Additions 10,888 7,717 21,113 19,939 16,599 19,170 23,554 27,669 72,154 74,495 Addition from business combination – 134 – 78 – – – – – 212 Disposals 529 12 12,165 5,242 17,789 13,519 156 41 30,639 18,814 Reclassifications 19,651 3,514 23,921 5,496 1,874 1,709 – 46,232 – 10,719 – 786 – Reclassification to assets held for sale – 7,906 – 122 – 7,358 – 668 – 1,203 – 73 – – – 16,467 – 863 Balance at 31 December 372,075 344,473 583,604 551,208 215,203 212,750 31,049 53,791 1,201,931 1,162,222 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January 146,566 136,542 372,554 345,201 149,271 143,034 – – 668,391 624,777 Currency translation adjustments 801 1,571 4,266 2,876 2,286 – 454 – – 7,353 3,993 Other – – 2 20 – 40 – 13 – – – 38 7 Additions 8,832 8,542 34,178 30,298 18,657 19,321 – – 61,667 58,161 Disposals 273 – 11,201 4,831 16,600 13,035 – – 28,074 17,866 Reclassifications – – – – 479 – 479 – – – – Reclassification to assets held for sale – 2,907 – 89 – 5,131 – 531 – 936 – 61 – – – 8,974 – 681 Balance at 31 December 153,019 146,566 394,668 372,554 152,638 149,271 – – 700,325 668,391 Carrying amount at 31 December 219,056 197,907 188,936 178,654 62,565 63,479 31,049 53,791 501,606 493,831 Assets resulting from finance leases are recognised as fixed assets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these capitalised assets amounts to € 2,022 thousand (previous year: € 2,277 thousand), of which € 918 thousand (previous year: € 1,260 thousand) relate to land and buildings, € 123 thousand (previous year: € 113 thousand) to plant and machinery and € 981 thousand (previous year: € 904 thousand) to other equipment, operating and office equipment. 126 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS We decided during the financial year to sell the Chinese company KSB Shanghai Precision Casting Co., Ltd., Shanghai (Pumps segment). We also divested the valves business of the US company KSB AMRI, Inc., Houston, in late January 2017. Additionally, we are selling real ­estate owned by our Australian company, which is assigned to the Pumps segment. Following these decisions taken for strategic reasons, the related assets and liabilities will be classified as being held for sale pursuant to IFRS 5. No write-down needed to be carried out on the disposal group as the fair value less costs to sell was not below the carrying amount. Also, no ­accumulated income and expenses arising in connection with the disposal group are included in other comprehensive income. The held-for-sale assets and liabilities are classified as follows: KSB Shanghai KSB Australia Precision Pty Ltd, Casting Co., Bundamba QLD , KSB AMRI , Inc., Ltd., Shanghai, Australia Houston, USA China (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 Intangible assets – – 371 Property, plant and equipment 1,467 967 5,058 Inventories – 2,891 1,631 Receivables and other current assets – 1,430 548 Cash and cash equivalents – 4 2 Assets held for sale 1,467 5,292 7,610 KSB Shanghai KSB Australia Precision Pty Ltd, Casting Co., Bundamba QLD , KSB AMRI , Inc., Ltd., Shanghai, Australia Houston, USA China (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 Provisions – – 216 – Liabilities – – 152 – 662 Liabilities held for sale – – 368 – 662 Disposals of intangible assets and items of property, plant and equipment resulted in book gains of € 1,478 thousand (previous year: € 2,769 thousand) and book losses of € 1,270 thousand (previous year: € 3,258 thousand). The book gains and losses are reported in the income statement under other income and other expenses. We recognised impairment losses of € 3,757 thousand (previous year: none) on property, plant and equipment, as we do not expect sufficient future and sustained cash inflows from these ­assets against the background of the consistently difficult economic situation in the energy sector. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 127 No te s 3 Non-current financial assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Other investments 5,401 5,074 Non-current financial instruments 667 668 Loans 2,458 2,219 8,526 7,961 Other investments are investments in non-consolidated affiliates that were not consolidated due to there being no material impact. As in the previous year, none of the loans are loans to equity investments. 4 Investments accounted for using the equity method The following table lists the KSB Group’s material joint ventures. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. All joint ventures and associates are accounted for ­ sing the equity method and can also be found in the list of shareholdings in these Notes to the u Consolidated Financial Statements. The share of capital corresponds to the share of voting rights. MAT ER IA L JOINT VENT URES Name and seat Capital share Nature of the entity’s relationship KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., 50.00 % KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, offers a wide range Saudi Arabia of services and activities for the energy market as well as in water, waste water and building services applications. The portfolio includes business development and marketing, supply chain management, production of pressure booster systems and pump sets, sale of pumps, valves and systems and technical service activities. KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. is important for the growth of the Group in the Saudi Arabian market. Shanghai Electric-KSB 45.00 % Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. in Shanghai, Nuclear Pumps and Valves China, produces suitable auxiliary pumps for the secondary coolant Co., Ltd., China circuits and modern reactor coolant pumps for the primary cooling circuits of nuclear power stations. Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. is a strategic partnership on the part of the Group, through which KSB is participating in the expansion of energy capacity in China and other Asian markets. Neither of the above two joint ventures is listed on a stock market and there is therefore no available active market value. Summarised financial information on these material joint ventures of the KSB Group is provided below. 128 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS SU MMA R ISED BA LA NCE SHEET Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Non-current assets 4,051 3,687 90,404 96,312 Current assets 43,248 38,835 86,062 74,975 of which cash and cash equivalents 5,093 1,149 7,569 6,771 Non-current liabilities – 7,583 – 1,976 – 39,238 – 11,451 of which non-current financial ­liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – 6,336 – 942 – – Current liabilities – 20,779 – 20,185 – 107,448 – 121,574 of which current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – 3,650 – 4,439 – 40,649 – 18,867 Net assets 18,937 20,361 29,780 38,262 SU MMA R ISED STAT EMENT OF COMP REHENSIV E INCOME Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales revenue 38,387 45,896 29,841 51,856 Depreciation / amortisation 290 299 3,758 3,145 Interest income – 1 18 15 Interest expense – 418 – 159 – 2,833 – 3,084 Earnings from continuing operations 3,074 7,967 – 6,164 238 Taxes on income – 1,109 – 575 – 934 – 1,513 Earnings after taxes from ­c ontinuing operations 1,965 7,392 – 7,098 – 1,276 Earnings after taxes from discontinued operations – – – – Other comprehensive income 549 1,760 – 1,384 2,507 Comprehensive income 2,514 9,152 – 8,482 1,231 Dividends received from joint ­v entures 1,969 1,203 – – CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 129 No te s R EC ONC ILIAT ION TO C A RRYING AMOUNT OF GROUP SHARE IN JOINT V ENTURES Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net carrying amount at 1 January 20,361 13,615 38,262 37,031 Earnings after income taxes 1,965 7,392 – 7,098 – 1,276 Distribution of dividends – 3,937 – 2,406 – – Other comprehensive income 549 1,760 – 1,384 2,507 Net carrying amount at 31 December 18,938 20,361 29,780 38,262 Investment in joint venture (50 % / 45 %) 9,469 10,181 13,401 17,218 Elimination of intercompany profit and loss – – – 3,058 – 2,420 Goodwill – – – – Carrying amount at 31 December 9,469 10,181 10,343 14,798 SU MMA R ISED INFOR MATION ON JOINT V ENTURES THAT ARE IMMATERIAL INDIV IDUALLY Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total (€ thousands) 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Group share of earnings from continuing operations 266 524 790 679 525 1,204 Group share of other comprehensive income 107 – 107 305 – 305 Group share of comprehensive income 383 524 907 984 525 1,509 Total carrying amounts of Group shares in these companies 3,595 1,032 4,627 3,148 1,108 4,256 As in the previous year, there are no pro rata losses that have not been recognised from the consolidation at equity. 5 Inventories (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Raw materials, consumables and supplies 168,455 163,123 Work in progress 179,859 163,716 Finished goods and goods purchased and held for resale 100,534 115,027 Advance payments 18,589 12,545 467,437 454,411 130 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS € 52,336 thousand (previous year: € 61,508 thousand) of the inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment losses recognised as an expense in the reporting period amount to € 18,318 thousand (previous year: € 7,125 thousand). Due to new estimates, we reversed write-downs totalling € 7,856 thousand (previous year: € 1,905 thousand) where the current net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. Inventories amounting to € 871,208 thousand (previous year: € 968,817 thousand) were recognised as an expense in the reporting period. 6 Trade receivables and PoC as well as other financial and non-financial assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Trade receivables and PoC 614,293 663,740 Trade receivables 504,595 524,610 Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures 33,576 36,193 thereof from other investments 6,480 8,316 thereof from associates 39 330 thereof from joint ventures 27,057 27,547 Receivables recognised by PoC 76,122 102,937 Receivables recognised by PoC (excl. advances received from customers PoC) 147,078 185,605 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 70,956 – 82,668 Other financial assets 186,995 156,169 Receivables from loans to other investments, associates and joint ventures 13,578 3,189 Currency forwards 2,170 1,978 Other receivables and other current assets 171,247 151,002 Other non-financial assets 24,923 25,200 Other tax assets 18,100 18,210 Deferred income 6,823 6,990 Impairment losses on trade receivables amount to € 34,530 thousand (previous year: € 35,560 thousand) and on receivables from other investments to € 6,283 thousand (previous year: € 3,644 thousand). As in the previous year, no impairment losses were recognised on receivables from joint ventures and from associates. Construction contracts under IAS 11 include recognised earnings of € 32,167 thousand (previous year: € 44,920 thousand) and costs of € 114,911 thousand (previous year: € 140,685 thousand). Sales revenue in accordance with IAS 11 amounts to € 406,604 thousand (previous year: € 498,435 thousand). CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 131 No te s Other receivables and other current assets include hedges of credit balances prescribed by law for partial retirement arrangements and long-term working time accounts of the German Group companies in the amount of € 16,951 thousand (previous year: € 15,501 thousand). € 25,230 thousand (previous year: € 31,950 thousand) of all receivables and other assets is due after more than one year. 7 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are term deposits with short maturities and call deposits, and also current account balances. 8 Equity There was no change in the share capital of KSB AG as against the previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it totals € 44,771,963.82 and, as in the previous year, is composed of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. Each no-par-value share represents an equal notional amount of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par-value bearer shares. The individual shares have no par value. The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums from capital increases in previous years. In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue reserves include currency translation adjustments, consolidation effects, remeasurements of defined benefit plans under IAS 19 and changes in the market value of interest rate derivatives taken directly to equity. These effects resulted in deferred tax assets in the amount of € 75,663 thousand (previous year: € 61,762 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities in the amount of € 39 thousand (previous year: none). A total of € 9,857 thousand (dividend of € 5.50 per ordinary share and € 5.76 per preference share) was paid from equity by resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent company KSB AG, Frankenthal, on 11 May 2016. Non-controlling interests relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India and China. KSB AG holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, while Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling interests are presented in the Statement of Changes in Equity. The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG calculated in accordance with HGB is shown at the end of these Notes. 132 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Capital disclosures Sufficient financial independence is a key requirement for safeguarding KSB’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also extremely important for us. A key management parameter for us is the net financial position, which is the balance of financial liabilities and interest-bearing financial assets (current and non-­ current financial instruments, interest-bearing loans, cash and cash equivalents, and receivables from cash deposits). Our long-term objective is to avoid net debt. We regularly monitor the development of this key performance indicator and manage it through active working capital management and by constantly optimising our financial structure, among other things. In the ­financial year we exceeded our original target of € 200 to 210 million and achieved € 259.5 million, based on further successes in working capital management and a consistently focused investment policy. Our net financial position was already developing more positively in the previous year than originally planned (€ 211.3 million compared with a planned figure of € 180 to 190 million). This can also be attributed to successes in working capital management and a focused investment policy. 9 Provisions The provisions disclosed in the balance sheet under current and non-current liabilities can be broken down as follows: 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Changes (€ thousands) Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Employee benefits 676,456 605,540 70,916 614,869 541,256 73,613 Pensions and similar obligations 589,542 589,542 – 526,033 526,033 – Other employee benefits 86,914 15,998 70,916 88,836 15,223 73,613 Other provisions 99,566 1,406 98,160 100,829 1,379 99,450 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 50,257 – 50,257 52,234 – 52,234 Provisions for restructuring 5,294 – 5,294 3,372 – 3,372 Miscellaneous other provisions 44,015 1,406 42,609 45,223 1,379 43,844 776,022 606,946 169,076 715,698 542,635 173,063 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 133 No te s Individual categories of provisions developed as follows in the 2016 financial year: Changes in consolidated Group / CTA* / Utilisation / Changes (€ thousands) 1 Jan. 2016 Other Prepayments Reversal Additions 31 Dec. 2016 Employee benefits 614,869 705 – 78,301 – 2,452 141,635 676,456 Pensions and similar obligations 526,033 194 – 15,732 – 953 80,000 589,542 Other employee benefits 88,836 511 – 62,569 – 1,499 61,635 86,914 Other provisions 100,829 570 – 57,715 – 6,982 62,864 99,566 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 52,234 – 60 – 26,552 – 6,252 30,887 50,257 Provisions for restructuring 3,372 – 16 – 1,372 – 230 3,540 5,294 Miscellaneous other provisions 45,223 646 – 29,791 – 500 28,437 44,015 715,698 1,275 – 136,016 – 9,434 204,499 776,022 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The pension obligations in the KSB Group include defined contribution and defined benefit plans and contain both obligations from current pensions and future pension benefit entitlements. For employees of Group companies in Germany there is a defined contribution plan under the German statutory pension insurance scheme into which the employer must pay the currently valid pension contribution rate. Contributions to state pension insurance funds recognised in the income statement totalled € 25,676 thousand (previous year: € 25,866 thousand). € 8,488 thousand (previous year: € 8,546 thousand) was spent on defined contribution schemes for employees in other countries in the year under review. 134 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The obligations for defined benefit pension plans for employees of the Group are mainly due to pension obligations in Germany, as well as in France, the United States and Switzerland. More than 90 % of the defined benefit pension plans are attributable to the German Group companies. These relate to direct commitments by the companies to their employees. The commitments are based on salary and length of service. Contributions from employees themselves are also considered. This pension provision can be broken down into purely company-financed basic provision and the top-up provision from the employer. The latter is based on the amount of own contributions and the generated return on sales before taxes on income. Both components take account of the general pension contribution (the amount of which partially depends on company performance), personal income (the relationship between pensionable income and maximum income threshold) and the annuity conversion factor (based on age). Pension benefits are paid in annual instalments of one tenth of the amount. However, under certain conditions it is also possible to make a capital payment or pay a monthly pension instead. Pension schemes in France are governed by the provisions of the respective collective agreements. The obligations are basically covered by assets that have been paid in to an external fund. At the beginning of the final quarter of each year, an actuarial report is prepared to calculate the current obligation. If there is a shortfall, a compensation payment is made to the fund. Differences in the calculation parameters under local and international law ultimately result in a surplus of obligations in the Group. Upon retirement, the employees concerned receive a one-off payment from the fund. The defined benefit pension plans in the United States are closed to new entrants. The pension benefit amount is derived from the average salary and years of service before closure of the plan. The retirement age is 65 years; from this point a monthly payment is made to the beneficiaries. The pension benefits are financed by external funds. Pension obligations in Switzerland are predominantly based on statutory obligations. This also includes details on a minimum pension which all employees with uninterrupted contributions are entitled to by law. The employer is therefore required to pay in contributions which are high enough for the respective pension fund or insurance company to pay out these minimum amounts. As well as pension benefits, the plans encompass other benefits such as disability or survivors’ benefits. Both employer and employee contributions are paid to the pension fund, with the company having to make contributions that at least match the employee contributions specified in the terms and conditions of the plan. The retirement benefits are paid out in monthly instalments, but all employees have the option to receive a (partial) capital payment. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 135 No te s In addition, employees in other countries are also entitled to a limited extent to retirement and partly to medical care benefits, depending mainly on the length of service and salary. These defined benefit plans impose actuarial risks on the Group, such as the longevity risk and interest rate risk. The payments linked to pension obligations are paid largely from our liquid assets. Plan assets are also partially available for financing these obligations. Most of the plan assets are managed by insurers who set their own appropriate investment policies. The actuarial valuations of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation (and the related current service cost and the past service cost) are measured and calculated ­annually on the basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit method (IAS 19). The amounts disclosed in the balance sheet for defined benefit plans are as follows: Defined benefit Net liability Defined benefit Net liability obligations Fair value of from defined obligations Fair value of from defined (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 Germany 560,775 – 560,775 502,739 – 502,739 France 17,035 7,265 9,770 13,098 6,918 6,180 USA 15,936 12,180 3,756 15,168 11,293 3,875 Switzerland 17,998 16,493 1,505 17,439 15,740 1,699 Other countries 42,648 28,912 13,736 40,933 29,393 11,540 Balance sheet values 654,392 64,850 589,542 589,377 63,344 526,033 136 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Opening balance of the defined benefit obligation ( DBO ) – 1 Jan. 589,377 582,495 Current service cost 15,867 16,504 Interest cost 14,269 13,874 Employee contributions 5,520 6,574 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions – 215 587 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions 52,479 – 16,260 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 2,481 – 2,804 Benefit payments – 19,054 – 18,231 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) 445 – 1,343 Transfer of assets – 559 397 Currency translation adjustments – 1,141 3,754 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 115 3,830 Closing balance of the defined benefit obligation ( DBO ) – 31 Dec. 654,392 589,377 The current and past service cost is recognised in staff costs under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses. The expected contributions in the following year are anticipated to amount to € 11,770 thousand (previous year: € 19,820 thousand). The changes in the fair values of the plan assets are as follows: (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Opening balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 1 Jan. 63,344 57,926 Interest income 2,329 2,297 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income 2,514 – 390 Contributions by the employer 2,216 2,485 Contributions by the beneficiary employees 279 871 Currency translation adjustments – 1,292 2,945 Changes in consolidated Group – – Paid benefits – 4,614 – 3,259 Other 74 469 Closing balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 31 Dec. 64,850 63,344 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 137 No te s Interest income is recognised in financial income net of the DBO interest expense under interest and similar expenses. The changes in the net liability from defined benefit plans are as follows: (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Opening balance of the net liability from defined benefit plans – 31 Dec. 526,033 524,569 Current service cost 15,867 16,504 Interest income – 2,329 – 2,297 Interest cost 14,269 13,874 Employee contributions 5,241 5,703 Contributions by the employer – 2,216 – 2,485 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income – 2,514 390 – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions – 215 587 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions 52,479 – 16,260 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 2,481 – 2,804 Benefit payments – 14,440 – 14,972 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) 445 – 1,343 Transfer of assets – 559 397 Currency translation adjustments 151 809 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 189 3,361 Closing balance of the net liability from defined benefit plans – 31 Dec. 589,542 526,033 Composition of plan assets: No quoted No quoted Quoted market market price in Quoted market market price in price in an an active price in an an active active market market Total active market market Total (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 Equity instruments (shares) 20,538 – 20,538 20,769 – 20,769 Debt instruments (loans) 22,469 – 22,469 21,825 – 21,825 Government bonds 8,602 – 8,602 8,338 – 8,338 Corporate bonds 13,867 – 13,867 13,487 – 13,487 Currency forwards 20 – 20 – – – Money market investments 373 – 373 338 – 338 Real estate 880 – 880 843 – 843 Insurance contracts – 17,295 17,295 – 16,409 16,409 Bank credit balances 2,115 – 2,115 2,253 – 2,253 Other investments 800 360 1,160 551 356 907 Total 47,195 17,655 64,850 46,579 16,765 63,344 138 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS We allocate to the pension funds the amount of money needed to meet statutory minimum ­requirements. The actual income from plan assets amounted to € 4,843 thousand (previous year: € 1,907 thousand). To calculate the pension obligation and the related plan assets, the following key actuarial ­assumptions were made: Discount rate Assumed rate of salary increase Assumed rate of pension increase (in %) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Germany 1.9 2.3 2.7 2.7 1.9 1.9 France 2.0 2.0 3.0 3.0 – – USA 3.8 4.1 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Switzerland 0.6 0.7 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Other countries 0.75 – 9.9 0.9 – 9.7 1.0 – 10.5 1.0 – 11.0 1.5 – 3.1 1.0 – 3.0 A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) continues to be applied to staff turnover for the German plans, as in the previous year. The biometric assumptions continue to be based on the 2005G ­mortality tables published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck as in the previous year, and the retirement age used for the calculations is based on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersgrenzenanpassungsgesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. Other measurement parameters (e.g. cost trends in the medical care area) are not material. The discount rate and future mortality were identified as key actuarial assumptions. As in the previous year the basis for the calculation of the sensitivities is the same method which was used for the calculation of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations. Were the discount factor to increase by 100 basis points, the DBO would fall by € 107 million (previous year: € 95 million). A 100 basis point reduction in the discount factor would increase the DBO by € 145 million (previous year: € 126 million). It should be noted that a change to the discount factor due to particular financial effects (such as compound interest) does not affect the development of the DBO on a straight-line basis. Were life expectancy to increase by 1 year, the DBO would increase by € 27 million (previous year: € 22 million). Additionally, the individual actuarial assumptions are mutually dependent, but these interdependencies are not taken into account in the sensitivity analysis. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 139 No te s On 31 December 2016 the weighted average term of the DBO was 23 years (previous year: 22 years). The following table shows the pension benefit payments expected over the coming years. € millions at 31 Dec. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Expected payments 21,659 21,315 21,549 21,605 22,569 € millions at 31 Dec. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Expected payments 20,417 22,284 21,314 21,105 21,151 Other employee benefits Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to profit-sharing, jubilee payments, partial retirement obligations and severance payments. Other provisions The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers and are based on estimates prepared using historical data for similar products and services. The current year’s addition to the provisions for restructuring relates to costs arising in conjunction with the closure of a production site in North Rhine-Westphalia. The miscellaneous other provisions include provisions for anticipated losses from uncompleted transactions and onerous contracts (€ 1,667 thousand for 2016 and € 1,298 thousand for 2015), customer bonuses and environmental protection measures. They also cover risks of litigation and legal proceedings if the recognition criteria for a provision are met (€ 9.2 million; previous year: € 11.1 million). These are usually risks arising from legal disputes in relation to operations or, in rare cases, disputes with government agencies or personnel matters. In order to determine the amount of the provisions, the facts related to each case, the size of the claim, the results of comparable proceedings and independent legal opinions are considered in individual cases along with assumptions regarding the probability of occurrence and the range of potential claims. In addition, there are contingent liabilities resulting from legal disputes in ­relation to operations in the amount of € 71.8 million (previous year: € 73.6 million). Appropriate insurance policies in the amount of € 11.0 million (previous year: € 11.0 million) are in place to cover claims. € 18,392 thousand (previous year: € 18,790 thousand) of the other provisions are expected to become cash-effective after more than one year. 140 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS 10 Liabilities NON-C U R R ENT LIA B ILITIES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Financial liabilities 57,962 133,504 Loan against borrower’s note 47,918 122,371 Bank loans and overdrafts 9,229 10,069 Finance lease liabilities 693 954 Other 122 110 C U R R ENT LIA B ILIT IES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Financial liabilities 119,958 44,316 Loan against borrower’s note 74,500 – Bank loans and overdrafts 44,571 42,739 Finance lease liabilities 501 436 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 376 1,131 Other 10 10 Trade payables 210,813 238,848 Trade payables to third parties 208,774 236,879 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 2,039 1,969 Other financial liabilities 89,406 85,911 Advances received from customers (PoC) 44,046 49,418 Currency forwards 11,203 6,843 Interest rate swaps 435 745 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 33,722 28,905 Other non-financial liabilities 182,979 179,139 Advances received from customers 92,505 87,173 Social security and liabilities to employees 52,657 54,080 Tax liabilities (excluding income taxes) 22,022 19,884 Prepaid expenses 10,882 12,744 Investment grants and subsidies 4,913 5,258 Income tax liabilities 9,354 10,082 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 141 No te s In 2012, to safeguard liquidity in the medium term, KSB AG took the precaution of placing a loan against borrower’s note with a total volume of € 175 million. This loan is divided into ­repayment tranches of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years. As the different repayment tranches have different terms, different rates of interest apply, some of which are fixed and some variable. There were no repayments during the reporting year. € 35.0 million was repaid upon maturity and € 17.5 million before maturity in the previous year. € 102 million (unchanged on the previous year) of the liabilities arising from the loan against borrower’s note are classified as bank loans and overdrafts, and € 20 million as other financial liabilities (also unchanged). Assets amounting to € 2,351 thousand (previous year: € 3,778 thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Of these, none (as in the previous year) relate to property, plant and equipment, € 724 thousand (previous year: € 180 thousand) to inventories, none (as in the previous year) to receivables and € 1,627 thousand (previous year: € 3,598 thousand) to other securities. None (previous year: € 93 thousand) of the liabilities were secured by land charges or similar rights in the year under review. The reported investment grants and subsidies largely comprise funding from the European Union and German entities for new buildings and development aid projects. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against borrower’s note) was 3.44 % (previous year: 3.03 %). Interest rate risk ­exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s note mentioned above. There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under review, as was the case in the previous year too. 142 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS V. I NC OM E STATEMENT DISCLOSURES 11 Sales revenue (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale 1,915,739 2,086,660 Services sales revenue 249,913 248,171 2,165,652 2,334,831 The impact of the percentage of completion method pursuant to IAS 11 and the breakdown of sales revenue by segment (Pumps, Valves and Service) is presented in the segment reporting. 12 Other income (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Income from disposal of assets 1,478 2,769 Reversal of impairment losses on receivables 9,277 10,032 Currency translation gains 3,629 2,450 Income from the reversal of provisions 8,400 14,222 Miscellaneous other income 24,443 20,479 47,227 49,952 Miscellaneous other income relates primarily to commission income, rental and lease income, insurance compensation, grants and subsidies. Income from government grants for individual projects (for example, for research activities) amounted to € 2,564 thousand (previous year: € 2,846 thousand). CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 143 No te s 13 Cost of materials (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Cost of raw materials and production supplies consumed and of goods purchased and held for resale 789,298 888,152 Cost of purchased services 84,858 91,379 874,156 979,531 14 Staff costs (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 641,451 661,374 Social security contributions and employee assistance costs 129,574 126,876 Pension costs 27,725 31,000 798,750 819,250 Pension costs are reduced by the interest component of provisions for pensions and similar obligations, which is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. EMPLOY EES Average for the year At reporting date 2016 2015 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Wage earners 7,311 7,512 7,091 7,351 Salaried employees 8,125 8,364 8,015 8,415 15,436 15,876 15,106 15,766 Apprentices 477 438 466 430 15,913 16,314 15,572 16,196 The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies in Slovenia and Finland led to an ­increase of 21 in the average number of employees over the year and in the total number at the reporting date. 144 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS 15 Other expenses (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Losses from asset disposals 1,270 3,258 Losses from current assets (primarily impairment losses on receivables) 12,744 12,798 Currency translation losses 2,222 2,778 Other staff costs 31,157 28,253 Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 85,816 95,546 Selling expenses 73,835 90,658 Administrative expenses 83,657 94,038 Rents and leases 26,898 28,923 Miscellaneous other expenses 54,842 55,215 372,441 411,467 Miscellaneous other expenses relate primarily to warranties, contractual penalties and additions to provisions. 16 Financial income / expense (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Financial income 6,612 7,682 Income from equity investments 147 – thereof from other investments (147) (–) Interest and similar income 6,357 7,635 thereof from other investments (37) (76) thereof from investments accounted for using the equity method (20) (12) Other financial income 108 47 Financial expense – 20,672 – 22,360 Interest and similar expenses – 19,885 – 19,414 thereof to other investments (1) (–) Write-downs on other investments – –2 Write-downs on investments accounted for using the equity method – – 2,700 Expenses from the remeasurement of financial instruments – 62 – 178 Other financial expense – 725 – 66 Income / expense from / to investments accounted for using the equity method – 1,342 4,373 Financial income / expense – 15,402 – 10,305 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 145 No te s Interest and similar expenses include the interest cost on pension provisions amounting to € 11,940 thousand (previous year: € 11,577 thousand). The change in the financial income / expense is mainly due to the negative result from investments accounted for using the equity method. Write-downs on investments accounted for using the equity method in the previous year were attributable to a German joint venture that faced ongoing economic difficulties. 17 Taxes on income All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported in the income statement after other expenses. (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Effective taxes 41,160 43,538 Deferred taxes – 14,296 – 2,316 26,864 41,222 € 875 thousand (previous year: € 85 thousand) of the effective taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax refunds and € 2,923 thousand (previous year: € 2,912 thousand) to tax arrears. R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF DEFERRED TAX ES (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Change in deferred tax assets – 27,806 2,493 Change in deferred tax liabilities – 664 1,015 Change in deferred taxes recognised in balance sheet – 28,470 3,508 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity 13,999 – 5,983 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other 175 159 Deferred taxes recognised in income statement – 14,296 – 2,316 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments 146 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS A LLOC AT ION OF DEFER R ED TAX ES Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities (€ thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Non-current assets 1,828 1,619 31,309 33,543 Intangible assets 1,152 1,019 279 484 Property, plant and equipment 612 479 30,964 32,932 Non-current financial assets 64 121 66 127 Current assets 57,152 59,132 45,621 54,236 Inventories 48,516 52,413 1,924 94 Receivables and other current assets 7,096 6,719 43,554 54,142 Assets held for sale 1,540 – 143 – Non-current liabilities 96,462 82,244 25 222 Provisions 96,305 82,055 – 183 Other liabilities 157 189 25 39 Current liabilities 20,949 17,789 8,573 8,765 Provisions 11,248 7,929 1,201 719 Other liabilities 9,701 9,860 7,372 8,046 Tax loss carryforwards 8,928 7,303 – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 185,319 168,087 85,528 96,766 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 73,153 – 83,727 – 73,153 – 83,727 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 112,166 84,360 12,375 13,039 As at the reporting date, deferred tax assets of € 97,825 thousand (previous year: € 66,867 thousand) were recognised, arising from companies posting a loss in the financial year or previous year, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, we expect realisation to take place. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 147 No te s The taxes included under equity can be broken down as follows: INC OME TA XES INC LU DED UNDER EQUITY (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans – 47,278 18,087 Taxes on income 13,546 – 5,454 Currency translation differences 20,223 1,158 Taxes on income – – Changes in the fair value of financial instruments – 1,622 3,077 Taxes on income 453 – 529 Other comprehensive income – 14,678 16,339 As in the previous year, the introduction of new local taxes had no effects in the year under ­review. Changes in foreign tax rates led to a reduction in the total tax expense of € 664 thousand (previous year: reduction of € 591 thousand). As far as net income from affiliates and other equity investments is concerned, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting them in the long term. No deferred tax liabilities were recognised for temporary differences of € 6,529 thousand (previous year: € 7,205 thousand) in relation to affiliates and associates as it is unlikely that these temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future. We did not recognise deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards amounting to € 41,720 thousand (previous year: € 49,641 thousand) because it is unlikely that there will be sufficient ­taxable profit available in the near future against which these deferred tax assets can be utilised. They are largely available for an indefinite period. Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets had to be set up amounted to € 9,145 thousand (previous year: € 9,736 thousand). 148 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF IN COME TAX ES (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) 74,641 93,392 Calculated income taxes on the basis of the applicable tax rate (30 % as in the previous year) 22,392 28,018 Differences in tax rates – 793 – 331 Change in write-downs on deferred taxes on loss carryforwards and unused tax loss carryforwards – 108 2,357 Tax-exempt income – 1,184 – 4,071 Non-deductible expenses 1,231 2,211 Impairment loss on goodwill 1,542 3,535 Prior-period taxes 2,048 2,827 Non-deductible foreign income tax 3,396 2,851 Investments accounted for using the equity method 662 – 306 Deferred taxes not recognised – 273 2,181 Other – 2,049 1,950 Current taxes on income 26,864 41,222 Current tax rate 36 % 44 % The unchanged applicable tax rate of 30 % is a composite rate resulting from the current ­German corporation tax, solidarity surcharge and trade tax rates. 18 Earnings after income taxes – Non-controlling interests The net profit attributable to non-controlling interests amounts to € 15,190 thousand (previous year: € 13,259 thousand) and the net loss attributable to non-controlling interests amounts to € 356 thousand (previous year: € 374 thousand). They relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 149 No te s 18 19 Earnings per share 2016 2015 Earnings after income taxes attributable to KSB AG shareholders € thousands 32,943 39,285 Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ 0.26 per preference share) € thousands – 225 – 225 € thousands 32,718 39,060 Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 18.68 22.30 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 18.94 22.56 150 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS VI . AD D I TI ONAL D I SCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: A SSET S Carrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class Measurement Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) category measurement 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 Non-current assets Other investments n/a Amortised cost 5,401 – 5,074 – Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 667 667 668 668 Fair value / Loans LaR Amortised cost 2,458 2,458 2,219 2,219 Current assets Fair value / Trade receivables LaR Amortised cost 504,595 504,595 524,610 524,610 Trade receivables from other investments, Fair value / associates and joint ventures LaR Amortised cost 33,576 33,576 36,193 36,193 Receivables from loans to other investFair value / ments, associates and joint ventures LaR Amortised cost 13,578 13,578 3,189 3,189 Fair value / Receivables recognised by PoC, net LaR Amortised cost 76,122 76,122 102,937 102,937 Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 2,170 2,170 1,978 1,978 Fair value / Other receivables and other current assets LaR Amortised cost 171,247 171,247 151,002 151,002 Fair value / Cash and cash equivalents LaR Amortised cost 288,883 288,883 273,136 273,136 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 151 No te s EQU IT Y A ND LIA B ILIT IES Carrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class Measurement Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) category measurement 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 57,269 55,803 132,550 130,942 Finance lease liabilities n/a Under IAS 17 693 699 954 982 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 119,457 119,457 43,880 43,880 Finance lease liabilities n/a Under IAS 17 501 561 436 446 Fair value / Trade payables FLAC Amortised cost 210,813 210,813 238,848 238,848 Fair value / Advances received from customers (PoC) FLAC Amortised cost 44,046 44,046 49,418 49,418 Interest rate swaps used as hedges n/a Fair value 435 435 745 745 Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 11,203 11,203 6,843 6,843 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities Fair value / (purchase price liability) FLAC Amortised cost – – 3,506 3,506 Fair value / Miscellaneous other financial liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 33,722 33,722 25,399 25,399 Thereof aggregated by category in accordance with IAS 39 Fair value / Loans and receivables LaR Amortised cost 1,090,459 1,090,459 1,093,286 1,093,286 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value 667 667 668 668 Financial liabilities Fair value / measured at amortised cost FLAC Amortised cost 465,307 463,841 493,601 491,993 152 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The carrying amount of financial assets measured at amortised cost, with the exception of non-­ current loans, approximates fair value. This is also the case for all financial liabilities shown on the balance sheet, with the exception of non-current financial liabilities. This is mainly due to the short maturities of these financial instruments. The fair values of non-current financial liabilities are determined as the present value of the cash flows associated with the liabilities. We apply an appropriate yield curve to arrive at this present value. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted in active markets (level 1). The fair values of currency forwards and interest rate swaps are determined on the basis of input factors observable indirectly (i.e. derived from prices, level 2). Level 3 includes financial instruments whose fair value is determined on the basis of inputs not based on observable market data. Foreign exchange derivatives are measured using forward exchange rates. For interest rate swaps the fair value is determined through the discount rate of future expected cash flows based on the market interest rates and yield curves that apply to the remaining term of the contracts. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 153 No te s The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities, as well as loans and receivables, measured at fair value on a recurring basis, broken down into measurement categories and the previously described hierarchy levels. There were no reclassifications carried out during the year under review. PR ESENTAT ION OF H IER ARCHY LEV ELS 2016 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 667 – – 667 Currency forwards – 2,170 – 2,170 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 11,203 – 11,203 Interest rate swaps – 435 – 435 Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost Loans – 2,458 – 2,458 Trade receivables – 504,595 – 504,595 Receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures – 47,154 – 47,154 Receivables recognised by PoC (inc. advances received from customers PoC) – 76,122 – 76,122 Other receivables and other current assets – 171,247 – 171,247 Cash and cash equivalents – 288,883 – 288,883 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Financial liabilities excluding finance lease ­liabilities – 175,260 – 175,260 Trade payables – 210,813 – 210,813 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 44,046 – 44,046 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities – 33,722 – 33,722 154 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS PR ESENTAT ION OF H IERARCHY LEV ELS 2015 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 668 – – 668 Currency forwards – 1,978 – 1,978 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 6,843 – 6,843 Interest rate swaps – 745 – 745 Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost Loans – 2,219 – 2,219 Trade receivables – 524,610 – 524,610 Receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures – 39,382 – 39,382 Receivables recognised by PoC (inc. advances received from customers PoC) – 102,937 – 102,937 Other receivables and other current assets – 151,002 – 151,002 Cash and cash equivalents – 273,136 – 273,136 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities – 174,822 – 174,822 Trade payables – 238,848 – 238,848 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 49,418 – 49,418 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities – 25,399 3,506 28,905 Fair values within level 1 are determined from the capital market quotations. Fair values within level 2 are determined based on a discounted cash flow method. Future cash flows from currency forwards are estimated on the basis of forward exchange rates (observable rates on the reporting date) and the contracted forward exchange rates, and are discounted with an adequate interest rate. Future cash flows from interest rate swaps are estimated on the basis of forward interest rates (observable interest structure curves on the reporting date) and the contracted interest rates, and are discounted with an adequate interest rate. Specific contractual regulations formed the basis for calculating the Level 3 fair values of other financial ­liabilities measured at amortised cost. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 155 No te s The net gains and losses from financial instruments, after taking into account the relevant tax effect, are presented in the following table: NET R ESU LT S B Y MEA SUREMENT CATEGORY IN 2016 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 6,357 – – 1,029 – 6,815 – – 1,487 AfS 161 – – – – 87 74 FLAC – 7,607 – 2,636 – – – 4,971 – 1,089 – 1,607 – 6,815 – 87 – 6,384 NET R ESU LT S B Y MEA SUREMENT CATEGORY IN 2015 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 7,635 – – 231 – 1,658 – 107 5,639 AfS 18 – – –2 – 16 FLAC – 7,314 – – 2,842 – – – 10,156 339 – – 3,073 – 1,660 – 107 – 4,501 The interest shown is a component of financial income / expense. The effect from the application of the effective interest rate method is immaterial here as the interest expenses are virtually offset by the resulting interest income. The other gains and losses are partly reported in other income and other expenses. The AfS measurement category resulted in a remeasurement value of € – 4 thousand (previous year: € 0 thousand), which was recognised directly in other comprehensive income and reported under “Change in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity. In the year under review, € 0 thousand (previous year: € 0 thousand) was withdrawn from equity or realised. The amount of financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting agreements is not material. 156 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Financial risks We are exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of our business activities. These risks can be classified into three areas: On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, or will be ­unable to meet them in full. Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the prices of financial instruments are not material for us. We limit all of these risks through an appropriate risk management system, and define how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the current risk characteristics continuously and regularly provide the information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. Additional information is also provided in the group management report, in particular in the Economic Review, Report on Expected Developments, Opportunities and Risks Report sections. Credit risk The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivable, or that it is not settled either in full or in part. We minimise this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of principle, we run credit checks on potential and existing counterparties. We only enter into business relationships if the results of this check are positive. Additionally, our European companies in particular take out trade credit insurance policies. As in the previous year, these policies account for around 10 % of the Group’s trade receivables in total. In exceptional cases we accept other securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, we also take out cover against political and commercial risks in the case of certain customers in selected countries. For both types of insurance, we have agreed deductibles, which represent significantly less than 50 % of the insured volume. As part of our receivables management system, we continuously monitor outstanding items, perform maturity analyses and establish contact with customers at an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of major projects, our terms and conditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credit. These also mitigate risk. Impairment losses are recognised for the residual risk ­remaining in trade receivables. We examine regularly the extent to which individual receivables need to be written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial difficulties CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 157 No te s of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. We also cover the credit risk of receivables that are past due by providing for the risk involved on the basis of historical loss experience. Receiv­ ables are derecognised if it is reasonably certain that receipt of payment cannot be expected (for example, after completion of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings). Impairment losses on trade receivables are the only material impairment losses in the KSB Group. They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Opening balance at 1 January 35,560 35,905 Additions 9,776 10,310 Utilised – 4,614 – 2,197 Reversals – 5,818 – 8,990 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other – 374 532 Closing balance at 31 December 34,530 35,560 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments The maturity structure of trade receivables is as follows: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired 364,733 398,135 Receivables that are past due but not individually impaired 1 to 30 days 49,802 44,810 31 to 90 days 29,827 32,146 91 to 180 days 16,590 10,289 > 180 days 30,716 11,622 Total 126,935 98,867 Receivables individually determined to be impaired 12,927 27,608 Receivables individually determined to be impaired at their principal amount 47,457 63,168 Specific write-downs 34,530 35,560 Carrying amount (net) 504,595 524,610 With regard to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired, there are no indications at the reporting date that our debtors will not meet their payment obligations. The same applies to all other financial instruments. 158 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of our business means that we supply a considerable number of customers in different sectors. Liquidity risk Our liquidity management ensures that we minimise this risk in the Group and that our solvency is ensured at all times. There are no concentrations of risk because we work together with a number of credit institutions, on which we impose strict creditworthiness requirements. We generate our financial resources primarily from our operating business. We use them to ­finance investments in non-current assets. We also use them to cover our working capital requirements. To keep these as low as possible, we monitor changes in our receivables, inventories and liabilities regularly using a standardised Group reporting system. The reporting system additionally ensures, with the help of monthly rolling cash flow planning, that the Group’s centralised financial management is continuously informed about liquidity surpluses and requirements. This enables us to optimally meet the needs of the Group as a whole and of the individual companies. For selected companies we use a cash pooling system to ­ensure that available cash is deployed optimally within the Group. We also apply a worldwide receivables netting procedure within the KSB Group so as to minimise both the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In order to be able to provide the necessary collateral in the project business, corresponding guarantee volumes are made available. Adequate proportions are confirmed for a period of more than one year. In addition, we always ensure that credit facilities are sufficient; we identify the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity plans. In this way we can react to fluctuating liquidity requirements at all times. Our approved cash loans and credit lines total approximately € 969 million (previous year: approx. € 940 million), of which € 648.1 million has not yet been utilised (previous year: € 627.7 million). The following tables show the contractually agreed non-discounted future cash flows of the ­ nancial liabilities (primary financial instruments) and derivative financial instruments. Interest fi payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the presentation. Based on our current state of knowledge, it is neither expected that the cash flows will take place significantly earlier, nor that the amounts will differ significantly. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 159 No te s C A SH FLOW S OF FINA NCIAL LIABILITIES 2016 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 190,914 127,826 39,477 23,611 Trade payables 210,813 210,813 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 33,722 29,801 3,921 – Derivative financial instruments Incoming payments – 3,094 – 2,718 – 376 – Derivative financial instruments Outgoing payments 12,562 11,000 1,493 69 444,917 376,722 44,515 23,680 C A SH FLOW S OF FINA NCIAL LIABILITIES 2015 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 191,227 48,386 118,138 24,703 Trade payables 238,848 238,848 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 28,905 26,610 2,295 – Derivative financial instruments Incoming payments – 1,877 – 1,683 – 194 – Derivative financial instruments Outgoing payments 7,487 5,542 1,881 64 464,590 317,703 122,120 24,767 Market price risk Our global business activities expose us primarily to currency and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices can affect fair values and future cash flows. We use sensitivity analyses to ­determine the hypothetical impact of such market price fluctuations on profit and equity. In doing so, we assume that the portfolio at the reporting date is representative for the full year. We reduce the risks resulting from changes in prices on the procurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in our sales price. Currency risk mainly affects our cash flows from operating activities. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in currencies that are not their functional currency. We minimise this risk using currency forwards and, on rare occasions, options. You will find further information on this in the “Derivative financial instruments” section of the Notes. We use micro hedges with regard to both transactions already recognised and cash flows that are expected in the future with a high degree of probability. The hedging instruments used share the essential terms and conditions with the underlying transactions, i.e. with regard to amount, term and quality. Internal guidelines govern the use of financial instruments. Such transactions are also subject to ongoing risk control measures. The hedging instruments used are exclusively currency forwards entered into with prime-rated banks. In order to measure the effectiveness of 160 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS our hedges, the market values of the underlying and the hedge transactions are compared. Changes in the market values of the derivatives are offset by changes in the fair values of the cash flows from the underlyings (hypothetical derivative method). As a rule, we do not hedge currency risks from the translation of foreign operations into the Group currency (€). At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 269,794 thousand (previous year: € 253,980 thousand), and the notional volume of all interest rate derivatives was € 39,500 thousand (previous year: € 39,500 thousand). The contractual maturities of payments for currency forwards and interest rate derivatives are as follows: NOT IONA L VOLU MES 2016 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 269,794 203,390 670 65,704 Interest rate derivatives 39,500 39,500 – – 309,294 242,890 670 65,704 NOT IONA L VOLU MES 2015 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 253,980 236,311 17,448 221 Interest rate derivatives 39,500 – 39,500 – 293,480 236,311 56,948 221 Equity includes changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge future cash flows amounting to € – 6,644 thousand (previous year: € – 5,026 thousand). They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Opening balance at 1 January – 5,026 – 8,104 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other 8 – 32 Disposals 948 5,552 Additions – 2,574 – 2,442 Closing balance at 31 December – 6,644 – 5,026 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments The main currencies in the KSB Group are the Chinese yuan (CNY) and US dollar (USD). For the currency sensitivity analysis, we simulate the effects based on the notional volume of our existing foreign currency derivatives and our foreign currency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the analysis, we assume a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies. In the reporting year, this would have amounted to approximately € 2.0 million for CNY (previous year: € 2.7 million) and € 1.2 million (previous year: € 2.2 million) for USD. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 161 No te s CNY 31 Dec. 2016 CNY 31 Dec. 2015 USD 31 Dec. 2016 USD 31 Dec. 2015 Trade receivables € 66,7 million € 73,4 million € 26,4 million € 36,1 million Trade payables € 46,6 million € 46,0 million € 14,9 million € 13,8 million Balance € 20,1 million € 27,4 million € 11,5 million € 22,3 million Based on the measurement of derivatives, at the reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 11.3 million lower (higher), with € 8.7 million resulting from USD and € 2.6 million from the other currencies. At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 8.5 million lower (higher), with € 6.4 million resulting from USD and € 2.1 million from the other currencies. We regularly monitor the interest rate risks associated with our financing activities. To avoid the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations on the international capital markets, we conclude interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) where necessary, generally for long-term loans. These are used exclusively to hedge floating rate loans against rising interest rates. As part of our interest rate sensitivity analysis, we simulate a 50 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates and analyse the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In 2016, the net interest balance would have been € 2.0 million (previous year: € 1.8 million) higher (lower). Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge floating rate ­liabilities increase (decrease) equity by € 0.1 (0.1) million (previous year: € 0.3 (0.3) million). VI I . STATEM ENT OF CASH FLOWS In the statement of cash flows, cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes (based on annual average rates) and changes in the consolidated Group on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. Cash flows from operating activities include a “cash flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for the year; depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; and non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other operating components of assets (including current financial instruments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating activities. Only those changes that are recognised in the income statement are taken into account. 162 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, non-current financial assets, and changes in term deposits with a maturity of more than 3 months, including commercial papers. In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitalisation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financing activities also comprise cash flows arising from changes in financial liabilities. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is reported separately. VI I I . SEGM ENT R EPORTING Segment reporting is prepared in accordance with IFRS 8 based on the management approach and corresponds to our internal organisational and management structure as well as the reporting lines to the Board of Management as the chief operating decision maker. In our matrix ­organisation, management decisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicators – order intake, external sales revenue and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) – determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service segments, excluding the effects from measuring construction contracts under IAS 11. Reporting the relevant assets, number of employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these segments is not part of our internal reporting. The managers in charge of the segments, which are geared to product groups, have profit and loss ­responsibility. They identify business opportunities across markets and industries and assess our options based on current and future market requirements. They also proactively encourage the development of new products and improvements to the available range of products. In this context, they work closely with our Sales organisation and Operations. The Pumps segment includes singleand multistage pumps, submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. Applications include process engineering, building services, water and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and control systems. Applications primarily include process engineering, building services, energy conversion and solids transport. The Service segment covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems and valves for all applications; as well as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete systems. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 163 No te s Our companies can be allocated to one or more segments based on their business activities. The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been established in compliance with the accounting policies of the underlying consolidated financial statements. Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. There were no discontinued operations in the period under review, as in the comparative period of the previous year. The order intake by segment presents order intake generated with third parties and nonconsolidated Group companies. The external sales revenue by segment presents sales revenue generated with third parties and non-consolidated Group companies. The effects from measuring construction contracts in ­accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. The table shows earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and consolidated earnings before income taxes (EBT) including non-controlling interests. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. Order intake External sales revenue EBIT (€ thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Pumps segment 1,386,617 1,452,431 1,428,491 1,513,977 60,876 55,389 Valves segment 331,182 367,965 360,794 384,570 8,794 10,340 Service segment 438,756 440,783 416,521 413,618 33,279 36,157 Reconciliation – – – 40,154 22,666 – 14,780 3,285 Total 2,156,555 2,261,179 2,165,652 2,334,831 88,169 105,171 Financial income – Interest and similar income 6,357 7,635 Financial expense – Interest and similar expenses – 19,885 – 19,414 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) 74,641 93,392 The EBIT of the Pumps segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of € 49.2 million (previous year: € 50.9 million), the EBIT of the Valves segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of € 11.1 million (previous year: € 12.6 million) and the EBIT of the Service segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of € 12.3 million (previous year: € 12.0 million). € 552,538 thousand (previous year: € 620,238 thousand) of the sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based in Germany, € 262,601 thousand (previous year: € 261,769 thousand) was generated by the companies based in France, € 200,779 thousand (previous year: € 209,959 thousand) by the companies based in the USA, and € 1,149,734 thousand (previous year: € 1,242,865 thousand) by the other Group companies. 164 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS There were no relationships with individual customers that accounted for a material proportion of Group sales revenue. At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 555,699 thousand (year-end figure in 2015: € 542,292 thousand), with € 192,139 thousand (year-end figure in 2015: € 196,625 thousand) being attributable to the companies based in Germany and € 363,560 thousand (year-end figure in 2015: € 345,667 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. They include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investments accounted for using the equity method; non-current financial instruments and ­deferred tax assets are not included. I X. OTHER D I SC LOS URES Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) C ONT INGENT LIA B ILIT IES AND COLLATERAL (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Liabilities from guarantees 4,481 2,739 Liabilities from warranties 224 1,239 Liabilities from the granting of other security for third-party liabilities and other contingent liabilities 11,231 9,444 15,936 13,422 Other contingent liabilities are expected to include up to € 7,380 thousand (previous year: € 928 thousand) for tax items (plus any interest). At present, there are no indications that any claims will be ­asserted under these obligations. The Group has contingent liabilities as a result of its investment in associates and joint ventures of € 9,344 thousand (previous year: € 5,989 thousand). The reported amount is the Group’s share of contingent liabilities from joint ventures. Contingent liabilities relating to other investments total € 1,006 thousand (previous year: € 1,728 thousand). The extent to which these will result in a cash outflow depends on the future business performance of the r­ espective company. OPER AT ING LEA SES Minimum lease payments (€ thousands) 2016 2015 Due within 1 year 16,627 17,832 Due between 1 and 5 years 29,269 32,398 Due after more than 5 years 7,001 7,799 52,897 58,029 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 165 No te s In the year under review, € 17,832 thousand (previous year: € 16,283 thousand) was spent. Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. FINA NC E LEA SES Minimum lease payments Present values (€ thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Due within 1 year 561 446 501 436 Due between 1 and 5 years 587 818 584 803 Due after more than 5 years 112 164 109 151 1,260 1,428 1,194 1,390 Finance leases relate mostly to real estate, as well as to other equipment, operating and office equipment. The term of the contract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned. The annual obligations from IT services agreements amount to € 56,243 thousand (previous year: € 62,276 thousand) over a term of one to five years. As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations from capitalisation measures at Group companies. The aggregate purchase obligation for investments (principally items of property, plant and equipment) amounts to € 17,854 thousand (previous year: € 20,029 thousand). Almost all of the corresponding payments are due in 2017. Research and development costs Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 51,262 thousand (previous year: € 57,987 thousand). Some of these costs are contract costs under IAS 11. Related party disclosures Related parties as defined in IAS 24 are natural persons and companies that can be influenced by KBS AG or that can exert an influence on KSB AG. Balances and transactions between KSB AG and its subsidiaries in the form of related parties have been eliminated during the consolidation process and are not explained in further detail. Details regarding transactions between the KSB Group and other related parties are provided below. 166 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Pursuant to section 21(1) of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, as the ultimate parent company, notified us on 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this date. 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were held directly by KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributable to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the WpHG. The voting rights attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, were held by Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. Related parties also include the non-consolidated subsidiary companies and joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, and Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation], Stuttgart, which holds 1 % of the shares in Klein Pumpen GmbH. In addition, related parties include entities controlled by or under joint control of the Managing Directors of Klein Pumpen GmbH. The following table shows services provided and used, as well as pending receivables and liabilities owed from and to related parties: Sales of goods Purchases of goods and services and services Receivables Liabilities (€ thousands) 2016 2015 2016 2015 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 KSB Stiftung and Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH – 1 – – – – – – Parent company Klein Pumpen GmbH 143 13 35 24 133 – – – Subsidiaries of Klein Pumpen GmbH 75 – 765 520 124 – 214 – Associates / joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH 483 410 2,172 2,226 – 127 25 213 Other related parties 12 1 16 16 1 – – – Further information on joint ventures and associates (related party disclosures) can be found in Section IV. Balance Sheet Disclosures – Notes No. 4 “Investments accounted for under the ­equity method”, 6 “Trade receivables and PoC as well as other financial and non-financial assets” and 10 “Liabilities”, and in Section IX. Other Disclosures – Contingent Liabilities. The transactions in relation to the parent company Klein Pumpen GmbH are based on a rental and services agreement between KSB AG and Klein Pumpen GmbH. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 167 No te s Transactions with subsidiaries of Klein Pumpen GmbH comprise transactions with Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH, which provides services in the area of insurance. In addition, following an increase in the interest held from 50 % to 100 %, Abacus alpha GmbH and its ­subsidiaries Abacus Experten GmbH, Abacus Resale GmbH and airinotec GmbH have been subsidiaries of Klein Pumpen GmbH since 18 November 2016. Until 17 November 2016 these companies had still been classified as associates and joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH. AIM GmbH & Co. KG and AIM Power Service GmbH also have to be classed as associates and joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH in the reporting year. The two companies carry out maintenance and servicing work, and provide other services. A rental and services agreement is in place between Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH and KSB AG . Abacus Experten GmbH has entered into several contracts for work with KSB AG ; Abacus Resale GmbH trades in products. KSB AG has also concluded service agreements with Abacus alpha GmbH and Abacus Resale GmbH. We supply airinotec GmbH with our products. All transactions are carried out at arm’s length with the following exceptions: In the 2016 financial year KSB incurred costs of € 418 thousand for garden maintenance work at the property in Frankenthal. The real estate concerned is attributable to both KSB and Klein Pumpen GmbH on a pro rata basis. The garden maintenance work was carried out by a service provider, Abacus alpha GmbH, Frankenthal, which was directly and wholly owned by Klein Pumpen GmbH as at 31 December 2016, and by other service providers. Based on the pro rata area, an amount of € 84 thousand should have been charged to Klein Pumpen GmbH as its share of the garden maintenance services costs. In accordance with the contractually agreed provisions, only € 4 thousand of these costs were passed on, creating a disadvantage for KSB of € 80 thousand. The disadvantage relating to the 2016 financial year was offset between the parties in the financial year by means of a disadvantage compensation agreement. Payment is scheduled for 2017. For the financial years before 2016 there is, according to the same principles, a potential claim for damages in accordance with section 317 AktG of around € 800 thousand in the ten-year statutory documentation and retention periods. This potential claim for damages is not recognised due to it being disputed and because the statutory capitalisation criteria are not fully met. Expenses of € 52 thousand incurred by KSB for third-party services for the maintenance of outdoor facilities were not passed on at the instigation or in the interest of Klein Pumpen GmbH during the 2016 financial year, creating a disadvantage of € 52 thousand for KSB. The disadvantage relating to the 2016 financial year was offset between the parties in the financial year by means of a disadvantage compensation agreement. Payment is scheduled for 2017. For the financial years before 2016 there is, according to the same principles, a potential claim for damages in accordance with section 317 AktG of around € 466 thousand in the ten-year 168 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS statutory documentation and retention periods. This potential claim for damages is not recognised due to it being disputed and because the statutory capitalisation criteria are not fully met. The Managing Directors of Klein Pumpen GmbH are also deemed to be related parties. Pending balances at the year end are unsecured, do not accrue interest and are settled by means of payments. No guarantees were given or received. The receivables presented here, as in the previous year, are not subject to write-downs and no provisions have been created for this purpose. Disclosures and information on affiliates and investments accounted for using the equity method provided in other section of these Notes refer to relations covering the supply of products and services on an arm’s length basis, unless stated otherwise. Pursuant to IAS 24, the remuneration of key management personnel of the Group must be ­ isclosed. The following table contains the relevant figures for the KSB Group with regard to d the remuneration paid to members of the Board of Management: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Short-term benefits (total remuneration) 1,250 1,289 Post-employment benefits 1,388 1,429 Other long-term benefits – – Termination benefits – – Share-based payments – – Total 2,638 2,718 Based on the relevant legal provisions, the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015 resolved not to disclose the remuneration of the Board of Management separately for each member and classified by components. € 5,255 thousand (previous year: € 4,518 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to current members of the Board of Management, and € 39,309 thousand (previous year: € 39,387 thousand) to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 2,244 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 2,246 thousand). The short-term benefits paid to members of the Supervisory Board amount to € 716 thousand for the 2016 financial year (previous year: € 833 thousand). CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 169 No te s The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are listed before the presentation of the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG. Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Frankfurt am Main with an office in Mannheim, were appointed as auditors and group auditors for ­financial year 2016 at the Annual General Meeting of KSB AG on 11 May 2016. Overall, fees (including expenses) amounting to € 481 thousand were recognised as expenses. Of this, € 449 thousand relate to audit services, € 24 thousand to other certification services and € 8 thousand to other services. KSB applied the IDW RS HFA 36 (new version) standard for the financial year ending on 31 December 2016, i.e. earlier than required. The audit fees include costs for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the statutory annual financial statements of KSB AG and the German subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements. The fees for other certification services primarily include attestation services outside of the audit of the ­annual financial statements. The fees for other services mainly include fees for project-specific consultancy services. Use of exemption option KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, and KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt, and Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal, have made partial use of the exemption provision under section 264(3) of the HGB. Events after the reporting period There were no reportable events after the reporting date. Events after the Reporting Period The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board agreed to a proposal made by the major shareholder Klein Pumpen GmbH on 12 January 2017 that KSB Aktiengesellschaft be converted into a partnership limited by shares [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien]. A motion to this effect will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017. If the motion is adopted, the company will trade under the legal form of SE & Co. KGaA in future. The general partner would be a management company, which would be wholly owned by a new subsidiary of the non-profit KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation] and the non-profit Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation]. The parent SE & Co. KGaA and thus the KSB Group would be 170 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS managed via this management company by a single-tier Administrative Board with four executive and five non-executive directors. No further significant events occurred after the balance sheet date that would have a material effect on the company’s results of operations, financial position and net assets. German Corporate Governance Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB AG issued the current statement of compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – ­German Public Companies Act]. The statement of compliance is published on our web site (www.ksb.com) and has thus been made permanently accessible. CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 171 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs L I ST O F SHAREHOLDINGS AF F I L I ATE S ( N AT I O N A L A ND INT ER NAT IONA L) No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. National 1 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany 100.00 2 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany 100.00 3 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 4 KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 5 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany 100.00 6 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany 51.00 7 PMS BERCHEM GmbH, Neuss Germany 100.00 8 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany 100.00 9 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany 100.00 International 10 Aplicaciones Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A. ( AMVI ), Burgos Spain 100.00 27 11 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 12 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China 100.00 27 13 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands 100.00 26 14 FORTY FOUR ACTIVIA PARK ( PTY ) LTD , Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 47 15 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA 100.00 17 16 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece 100.00 17 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 6 10.03 55 18 KSB AMRI , Inc., Houston / Texas USA 89.97 17 19 KSB Australia Pty Ltd, Bundamba QLD Australia 100.00 27 20 KSB Belgium S.A., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium 100.00 27 21 KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista Brazil 100.00 27 22 KSB , Bombas e Válvulas, SA , Albarraque Portugal 95.00 23 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile 100.00 95.00 27 24 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Argentina 5.00 25 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico 100.00 26 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 27 27 KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 100.00 28 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland 100.00 29 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 17 30 KSB , Inc. – Western Division, Bakersfield / California USA 100.00 17 31 KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan Italy 100.00 27 32 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain 100.00 27 33 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea 100.00 34 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China 100.00 172 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. 35 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom 100.00 27 36 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam Malaysia 100.00 66 37 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. 100.00 27 49.00 52 38 KSB MIL Controls Limited, Annamanada India 51.00 39 KSB Mörck AB , Gothenburg Sweden 100.00 40 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 26 41 KSB New Zealand Limited, Albany / Auckland New Zealand 100.00 19 42 KSB Norge AS , Ski Norway 100.00 43 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria 100.00 27 44 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey 100.00 27 45 KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d'Associé unique, Casablanca Morocco 100.00 55 46 KSB Pompy i Armatura Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland 100.00 47 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 84.99 53 48 KSB Pumps and valves L.t.d., Domžale Slovenia 100.00 49 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand 40.00 50 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan 58.89 51 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 27 52 KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India 40.54 11 53 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 27 54 KSB -Pumpy+Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic 100.00 55 KSB S.A.S. , Gennevilliers (Paris) France 100.00 27 56 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea 100.00 57 KSB Service Belgium S.A./N.V., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium 100.00 20 58 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S. , Villefranche sur Saône France 100.00 55 59 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S. , Montfavet France 100.00 55 60 KSB Service Est S.A.S. , Algrange France 100.00 55 61 KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S. , Chalon-sur-Saône France 100.00 63 62 KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S. , Chalon-sur-Saône France 100.00 63 63 KSB Service Robinetterie S.A.S. , Rambervillers France 100.00 55 64 KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai China 80.00 27 65 KSB Shanghai Precision Casting Co., Ltd., Shanghai China 100.00 64 66 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore 100.00 67 KSB Szivattyú és Armatura Kft., Budapest Hungary 100.00 68 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., New Taipei City Taiwan 100.00 69 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India 100.00 70 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China 100.00 71 KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai China 100.00 72 KSB Válvulas Ltda., Jundiaí Brazil 100.00 21 73 KSB Vietnam Co., Ltd, Long Thanh District Vietnam 100.00 66 74 KSB (Schweiz) AG , Oftringen Switzerland 100.00 75 KSB SERVICE COTUMER , Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 63 76 OOO “ KSB “, Moscow Russia 100.00 3 CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 173 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. 94.10 27 77 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung Indonesia 5.90 99.00 77 78 PT . KSB Sales Indonesia, Cibitung Indonesia 1.00 79 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna Sweden 100.00 39 80 REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy 100.00 81 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 52.85 27 82 SMEDEGAARD AG Pumpen und Motorenbau, Beinwil am See Switzerland 100.00 27 83 Smedegaard Pumps Limited, Bridgwater United Kingdom 100.00 35 84 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle (ST II ), Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 75 85 SPI Energie S.A.S. , La Ravoire France 100.00 55 86 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA 100.00 17 87 T. Smedegaard A/S, Glostrup Denmark 100.00 88 VM Pumpar AB , Gothenburg Sweden 100.00 39 J OI NT V E N T U R E S ( N AT I O NA L A ND INT ER NAT IONA L) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country in % No. € thousands € thousands National 89 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Pegnitz Germany 50.00 – 455 40 International 90 KSB MOTOR TEKNOLOJİLERİ SANAYİ VE TİCARET ANONİM ŞİRKETİ, Ankara Turkey 55.00 44 131 – 35 91 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh Saudi Arabia 50.00 27 18,937 3,148 92 KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. 49.00 7,192 582 93 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai China 45.00 29,780 – 7,098 AS S OC I ATE S ( N AT I O N A L A ND INT ER NAT IONA L) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country in % No. € thousands € thousands International 94 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy 25.00 4,129 2,096 * Data according to latest annual financial statements available 174 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS COMPA N I E S N OT C O N SOLIDAT ED B EC AU SE OF IMMAT ER IA L ITY – AFFILIATES (NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country in % No. € thousands € thousands National 95 gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek Germany 51.00 334 77 International 98.10 76 96 IOOO “ KSB BEL “, Minsk Belarus 609 328 1.90 3 97 KSB Algérie Eurl, Bordj el Kifane (Alger) Algeria 100.00 27 461 – 226 98 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovakia 100.00 332 5 99 KSB Colombia SAS , Funza (Cundinamarca) Colombia 100.00 27 16 3 100 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan 100.00 – 1,318 100 101 KSB Perú S.A., Lurin Peru 100.00 1,096 440 102 KSB PHILIPPINES , INC ., Makati City Philippines 100.00 66 162 245 103 KSB Pumpe i Armature d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrad Serbia 100.00 48 – 35 –3 104 KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Rakov Potok Croatia 100.00 48 – 731 – 492 105 KSB Pump & Valve Technology Service (Tianjin) Co., Ltd, Tianjin China 100.00 34 1,163 146 106 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco 100.00 45 – 477 – 41 107 TOO “ KSB Kazakhstan“, Almaty Kazakhstan 100.00 76 – 64 – 47 108 TOV “ KSB Ukraine“, Kiev Ukraine 100.00 76 346 303 * D ata according to latest annual financial statements available Prior-period figures CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 175 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs S u pe rv i so ry B o ard S UPERV ISORY BOARD Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth, Dipl.-Ing., Frankenthal René Klotz, NC Programmer, Frankenthal Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board Chairman of the General Works Council († 31 January 2017) Günter Koch, Dipl.-Wirtsch.Ing., Ludwigshafen Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Dipl.-Kfm., Icking 1) Former Member of the Board of Management of Pfalzwerke AG, Former Managing Director of OSRAM GmbH ­Ludwigshafen (Chairman of the Supervisory Board until 28 Feb. 2017) (Member of the Supervisory Board until 11 May 2016) Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach 2) Wolfgang Kormann, Hand Moulder, Pegnitz Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Member of the European Works Council, (Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Chairman of the Group Works Council Dr. Stella A. Ahlers, Business Management Assistant, Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtsch.Ing., Frankenthal Feusisberg/Switzerland 3) Managing Director of Klein Pumpen GmbH Chairwoman of the Board of Management of Ahlers AG (Member of the Supervisory Board from 11 May 2016 to 20 March 2017) Birgit Mohme, Industrial Business Management Assistant, Frankenthal 7) Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall Ludwigshafen-Frankenthal Dr. Martin Auer, Mannheim 4) Head of Corporate Legal, Compliance, Procurement and Logistic Services Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg MVV Energie AG 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken (Member of the Supervisory Board until 28 Feb. 2017) Gabriele Sommer, Dipl.-Geol., Wörthsee 8) Dr.-Ing. Stephan Bross, Freinsheim 5) Global Head of Human Resources TÜV SÜD AG Head of Corporate Unit Pumps (Member of the Supervisory Board since 1 Jan. 2016) Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann, Dipl.-Kfm., Großhesselohe 6) Member of the Management / CFO of Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG (Member of the Supervisory Board until 14 April 2017) Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members on the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies 1) Member of the Board of Trustees of WTS-Stiftung für Altersversorgung, Munich, Germany 6) Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG, Munich, Germany Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore, India 2) BKK advita, Alzey, Germany FCS Holding Inc., Wilmington, USA Chem-Trend Holding LP, Wilmington, USA 3) Adolf Ahlers AG, Zug, Switzerland Externa Holding S.R.L., Milan, Italy TÜV Süd AG, Munich, Germany 4) Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany Stadtwerke Ingolstadt Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingolstadt, Germany 7) Deutsche Rentenversicherung Rheinland-Pfalz, Speyer, Germany 5) Burckhardt Compression AG, Winterthur, Switzerland 8) TÜV SÜD Industrie Service GmbH, Munich, Germany TÜV SÜD Auto Service GmbH, Stuttgart, Germany 176 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS B OA RD O F MANAGEMENT Board of Management jointly: Mandates of KSB Board of Management members on the Board of Directors of KSB companies Strategy and Regions 1) SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann, Frankenthal 1) KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Human Resources Director KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Responsibilities: Technology, Production, Sales, Purchasing, 2) KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Human Resources and the Pumps and Valves segments KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg, the Netherlands Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario, Canada KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA Werner Stegmüller, Mannheim 2) KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Responsibilities: Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Communications, Investor Relations, IT, Patents & Trademarks, KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA Legal & Compliance, Internal Audits and the Service segment KSB, Inc., Richmond / Virginia, USA CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 177 No te s B o ard o f Man age m e n t Pro po sal o n th e Appro pri ati o n o f th e Ne t R e tai n e d Earn i n gs PROPOSAL O N THE AP P RO P RI ATI O N O F THE NET RETAINE D E ARN I N G S O F KS B AG We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017 that the net retained earnings of € 11,889,797.83 of KSB AG be appropriated as follows: Distribution of a dividend of € 5.50 per ordinary no-par-value share € 4,876,382.50 and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, € 5.76 per preference no-par-value share € 4,980,741.12 Appropriation to revenue reserves € 2,000,000.00 Total € 11,857,123.62 Carried forward to new account € 32,674.21 € 11,889,797.83 Frankenthal, 21 March 2017 The Board of Management The annual financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with German ­accounting principles. They are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. 178 MOVITEC Multistage pump for pressure boosting applications in building services and agriculture CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 5 GENERAL INFORMATION 180 Responsibility Statement 181 Auditor’s Report 183 Glossary 184 Contacts G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 180 GENER A L INFORMAT ION RESPONSI BI L I TY S TATE ME N T To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial ­position and profit or loss of the Group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankenthal, 21 March 2017 The Board of Management CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 181 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tate m e n t Au di to r’s R e po rt AUDITOR ’S RE P O RT We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal / Pfalz, comprising the statement of financial position, the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with the group management report for the business year from 1 January to 31 December 2016. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) is the responsibility of the parent Company’s Board of Managing Directors. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of the entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by the Company’s Board of Managing Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. 182 GENER A L INFORMAT ION In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with statutory provisions, provides a suitable view of the Group’s position overall and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Mannheim, 21 March 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dr. Ulrich Störk ppa. Christina Pöpperl Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin CO N S O L IDATE D M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2016 GROW ING W ITH WATER GROUP M A N AG E M E N T RE P O RT FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 183 Au di to r’s R e po rt Gl o ssary GLOSSARY AB B R EVI ATI ONS KEY CORPORATE AND TECHNICAL TERMS BRIC 3D polymer printing Laser melting Acronym for the four major emergA process in which three-dimenA production method used to ­create ing countries referred to as the sional plastic parts can be built up metal components layer by layer “BRIC states”: Brazil, Russia, India layer by layer on the basis of 3D CAD data and China Design to cost Ombudsperson ISO 14001 A product development process A neutral adjudicator; in the International standard stipulating aimed at finding the most cost-­ ­context of corporate governance requirements to be met by environeffective solution for individual a person of trust who accepts mental management systems components beginning at the anonymous information relating ­development stage to potential infringements IMF International Monetary Fund ERP system Retrofit measures An Enterprise Resource Planning Modernisation of installed systems VDMA system is a software solution which or components, often aimed at exVerband Deutscher Maschinenund handles the integrated managetending their service life, increasing Anlagenbau e.V. ment of a company’s core business efficiency or complying with new [German Engineering Federation] processes. legislation FluidFuture Stakeholders KSB programme to increase the Groups directly or indirectly affected efficiency of pump systems by a company’s activities; in the case of KSB these include customers, Additive manufacturing suppliers, investors, employees and processes the public. A process for fast and cost-effective manufacturing of patterns, samples, UN Global Compact prototypes, tools and final products A global initiative for businesses and organisations launched by Industry 4.0 the United Nations with the aim A visionary project from the German of shaping social and ecological government’s future technologies globalisation strategy aimed at bringing the real and the virtual world together while encompassing the “Internet of Things” 184 GENER A L INFORMAT ION CONTACTS E D I TO R As a signatory to the United Nations Global KSB Aktiengesellschaft Compact , KSB is committed to endorsing the Johann-Klein-Strasse 9 ten principles of the international community 67227 Frankenthal, Germany in the areas of human rights, labour standards, Tel. +49 6233 86-0 environmental protection and anti-corruption. Fax +49 6233 86-3401 ONL I N E N E W S You will find the latest news A print version of the KSB Group’s Annual Report is additionally available on the KSB Group at: www.ksb.com in German. We also publish German and English versions online in PDF and HTML formats at http://annualreport2016.ksb.com. Should you need additional information, please contact: I NVE S TO R R E L ATI O N S Ralf Pfundmaier Tel. +49 6233 86-2053 Fax +49 6233 86-3454 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com COMM U N I C AT I O N S Ullrich Bingenheimer Tel. +49 6233 86-2138 Fax +49 6233 86-3456 E-mail: ullrich.bingenheimer@ksb.com CON C E P T A N D D E S I G N KSB Communications, Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz PHOTO G R A P H Y KSB Image Library Robert Kwiatek, Frankenthal (p. 4 / 5 + 19 + 56) Getty Images (p. 32 / 33 + 36 / 37 + 44 / 45) shutterstock (p. 26 / 27 + 48 / 49) eo Vision / ESA (2017) (p. 40 / 41) Les Puits du Désert (p. 25) PRI N T I N G Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH, Ottweiler GLOBAL PRESEN CE Backed up by production and assembly sites around the world, as well as a tight-knit sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand. KSB production / assembly sites KSB sales / service sites G LLO O BA L EP PR RE Ä S ESN ENC EZ E UROP E MID D LE EA ST / AFRICA ASIA AMERICAS Austria Norway Algeria China Argentina Belarus Poland Egypt India Brazil Belgium Portugal Ghana Indonesia Canada Croatia Russia Iran Japan Chile Czech Republic Serbia Kenya Kazakhstan Columbia Estonia Slovak Republic Morocco Malaysia Mexico Finland Slovenia Oman Pakistan Peru France Spain Qatar Philippines USA Germany Sweden Saudi Arabia Singapore Hungary Switzerland South Africa South Korea Italy The Netherlands Turkey Taiwan OCEANIA Latvia Ukraine United Arab Emirates Thailand Australia Luxembourg United Kingdom Vietnam New Zealand FIN A N C IAL C ALENDAR 30 MARCH 2017 Financial press conference 10:00, Frankenthal, Germany 31 MARCH 2017 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 28 APRIL 2017 Interim report January – March 2017 10 MAY 2017 Annual General Meeting 10:00, Frankenthal, Germany 11 AUGUST 2017 Half-year financial report January – June 2017 9 NOVEMBER 2017 Interim report January – September 2017 KSB Aktiengesellschaft 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
