The collection and presentation of the content in the 2016 Sustainable Development Report are the product of the work of all units of Piraeus Bank and its subsidiaries in Greece and abroad. Concept & Design MNP Actualization, Layout & Production Management Easy dot Printing Pressious Arvanitidis The 2016 Sustainable Development Report of Piraeus Bank was printed on Munken Pure Rough paper, obtained by environmentally-friendly processes. FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council®), Its mission is to promote environmentally responsible, socially beneficial and economically viable management of the world’s forests. The 2016 Sustainable Development Report of Piraeus Bank is available online at: www.piraeusbankgroup.com/en/investors/ﬁnancials/annual-reports and as an iOS & Android tablet Application at “Piraeus Group Kiosk”. Hard copies of the Report are available upon request to the Business Planning & IR Group: 4, Amerikis Str., GR-105 64, Athens, Τ: 210 3335026, Investor_Relations@piraeusbank.gr Last update of Piraeus Bank Sustainable Development Report: May 31, 2017 Sustainable Development Report 2016 www.piraeusbankgroup.com A new day for the world. Scheduled to last 24 hours, destined to be the day after yesterday, the day before tomorrow. Rising with new light, new colours. And a new century for Piraeus Bank. One hundred years of such new days, successive beginnings every 24 hours, whose colours set the tone and chart a course that is steady, a bright course almost dazzling. And tomorrow, we will be here again, full of admiration for whatever dawns, ready to start the next day, the next future. Contents 9 Chairman’s Note 15 Content and Compilation Methodology of the 2016 Sustainable Development Report 19 Independent Assurance Statement 27 Selected Figures Associated with 2016 Sustainable Development Report 34 Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonisation with Global Standards 38 Stakeholders’ Dialogue 47 Corporate Governance 65 Customer and Supplier Relationships 93 Human Resources 129 Society, Culture and the Environment 191 GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 Chairman’s Note In 2016, the Greek economy was at a critical juncture. Following the intense volatility of 2015, businesses and households had to survive in a very challenging environment with many demands. The same occurred in the banking sector, which had to adjust to new conditions. In 2016, the foundations were laid for the coming years both in relation to management of NPLs and to corporate governance. Regarding the latter, significant progress was noted which will be the legacy for the future. In this framework, Piraeus Bank proceeded with structural reorganization of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the legal framework and the highest international standards. Today, the Piraeus Bank Group’s Board of Directors is highly prestigious, with members of proven international experience and extensive know-how in the sectors of banking, risk management and loans-in-arrears management. Despite the problems arising from the long lasting financial crisis in Greece, the Greek economy endured and is looking forward to a gradual return to sustainable development, with investments as a focal point. The deep economic crisis since 2010 has reshaped the operating environment of the key pillars of domestic economic activity: industry, construction, commerce and services. At the same time, it also affected domestic banks, which after three recapitalization processes significantly enhanced their capital adequacy, thus strengthening their position and their relationship of trust with customers in Greece as well as with investors in Greece and abroad. In this framework and with its leading position in Greece, Piraeus Bank remained in 2016 as well, the key banking services provider to businesses and individuals. In its effort to support the restarting of the economy, the Bank’s strategic goal is to aid sustainable businesses and all their new initiatives. At the same time, it aims to hold a key role in sectors such as the financing of projects and of modern infrastructure, of export-oriented and environmentally-sensitive businesses, support of agricultural banking and of primary production as well as management of third-party assets, with high-level services and cutting edge products. Concurrently, through the network of special thematic technological Museums of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP), which operate as vibrant hubs of culture in the Greek periphery, we contribute to the preservation of culture and industrial heritage. We support local communities both on a financial and a cultural level, organizing scientific events and educational programs. Sustainable Development Report 9 It is important to stress that since 2004, Piraeus Bank has been voluntarily participating in the United Nations Global Compact. The guiding Ten Principles of the Compact, which concern the respect of human and labour rights, the protection of the environment and the fight against corruption, constitute the context on which we base our efforts. We continue the programs for the reduction of our environmental footprint, as well as for the tackling of climate change and the protection of biodiversity. All the above actions are owed to the valuable contribution of the Group's executives and employees and confirm their quality and dedication to our common vision, towards balanced development. In the Sustainable Development Report which follows we describe the principles of corporate responsibility that we adopt, the actions and initiatives we undertook in 2016 as well as our future goals, according to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, which is extensively referred to, in this report. All of us at Piraeus Bank are making great efforts so that the Bank can aptly respond to the present and future challenges as well as to contribute to the revamping of the Greek economy by paving the way for value creation in the years to come. Finally, it is significant to note that the Bank’s new Board of Directors, as proposed for election in the Annual General Meeting of June 28, 2017, is in a position to make a decisive contribution to achieving this vision, through the accumulated experience and know-how of its Members. It was in this direction that the new Chief Executive Officer, Mr Christos Megalou, presented the Bank’s new strategy, Agenda 2020 , at the end of May 2017. Our strategy, above any and all financial targets, sets 4 basic principles as its pillars of operation. The first principle is the focus on customers and their real needs and the others are management accountability, creation of a performance culture and the adoption of a sustainable business model. This is the course that we will follow! George Handjinicolaou Chairman of the Board of Directors 10 Sustainable Development Report Content and Compilation Methodology of the 2016 Sustainable Development Report The present Sustainable Development Report (SDR) covers the calendar year 2016 and forms part of the Piraeus Bank Group Annual Business Report. The Sustainable Development Report aims to provide complete and symmetric presentation of certain important nonfinancial aspects of the organization’s work in relation to its administrative structure, its customers, suppliers, employees, society and the environment. It also serves the purpose of gradually and fully implementing the corporate responsibility principles already in effect at Piraeus Bank to all group subsidiaries as well as extending the relevant know-how required. The present Report has been compiled in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, which determines its content and quality guidelines (Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Regular and Timely Information Provision, Clarity, Reliability). Piraeus Bank Group has been implementing the Global Reporting Initiative compilation principles for the 10th consecutive year, believing that this model defines a clear framework of principles that facilitates the disclosure and communication of corporate responsibility issues for both the Bank Group itself and all stakeholders. The Table of Global Reporting Initiative (pg 191) contains all the information for GRI indices required for the In Accordance Core option. Since 2013 the Group has also been abiding by the International Standard Guidelines for Social Responsibility ISO 26000 (pg 200) with the aim of strengthening and optimally incorporating social responsibility into the Organization’s values and principles. This international standard contains guidelines for implementation and promotion of the basic principles of corporate responsibility in a company’s activities, in key issues such as: corporate governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues and participation in and growth of society. Piraeus Bank Group voluntarily follows the directions for the publication of annual and progress reports as indicated by the UN Global Compact, and posts its Annual Report on the relevant website (www.unglobalcompact.org). The present Piraeus Bank Group Report has been assured by Ernst & Young. The detailed Independent Assurance Statement is included in page (pg 19-21) of the present Report. Collection and Processing of Sustainable Development Report Data For the collection and processing of the 2016 data, electronic database management systems were applied and internal processes have been adopted to ensure the validity and reliability of information. The 2016 Sustainable Development Report aims to cover all Group activities; however, some of the data reported and quantitative measurements are focused on specific areas of its activities. Wherever this applies, reference is made to the relevant Report sections. Dialogue with Stakeholders and Promotion of Sustainable Development Issues Communication and dialogue with stakeholders constitutes a strong tool for promoting key issues related to Sustainable Development. By adopting this mechanism, one can distinguish those issues that have the most substantial and timeless Sustainable Development Report 15 effect on the economy, society and the environment. These issues constitute the basis for the development and activation of mechanisms for constant improvement of an organization’s operations. Towards this direction, in 2016 as well, apart from the regular communication and collaboration framework that has been established with each group of stakeholders, as described on pages 38-42, Piraeus Bank has also adopted an evaluation process by means of a survey and a focus group discussion in order to define and record current issues related to sustainable development issues based on principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Participation, Viability Sustainability Context and Completeness. In this, participants were asked to assess, on a standardized scale, an extensive range of corporate responsibility issues regarding the level of materiality (from 1=not at all to 5=strongly). The questionnaire was addressed to an extensive sample of 1,114 participants, both internally and externally of the Group. More analytically, the questionnaire was e-mailed to participants and this year, for the first time, it was also posted on the Group’s website and in social media (LinkedIn) to allow for the general public’s participation in the questionnaire. Additionally, the Bank for the first time organized a focus group discussion, thus gaining the benefit of direct communication and the opportunity for an open dialogue and the collection of comments with the aim of further enhancing the process of defining and classifying the materiality issues. The key results of the focus group are analyzed in the Customer and Supplier Relationships section. Materiality Survey based on Questionnaire The materiality survey was conducted based on a questionnaire compiled for the purpose of assessing 16 issues related to the stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests, which consequently have an impact on society, the economy and the environment. The 16 issues were ranked based on their materiality in relation to judgments and decisions of the stakeholders as well as to their contribution to sustainable development. At the same time, participants noted areas of improvement and/or changes, which will be taken into consideration by the Group. More specifically, the issues incorporated in the survey’s questionnaire constitute aspects of sustainable development which affect stakeholders’ judgment and decisions regarding Piraeus Bank and may possibly have a positive or negative effect on their expectations and interests (customers, employees, suppliers, NGOs, institutional bodies, etc.). These issues have emerged from Piraeus Bank’s systematic communication with the interested parties and are defined by the actuality, current crisis conditions, existing corporate responsibility practices as well as surveys and corporate responsibility indices pertinent to the Bank. All material issues might change over time and as deeper knowledge of these is acquired. Piraeus Bank re-evaluates their materiality once a year, in the context of compiling the Annual Report. From the analysis of the survey results it was concluded that each category of respondents has a different perspective on the significance of each issue. During the hierarchy process, the ranking of each material issue was weighted in relation to all the questionnaires answered for each category of stakeholders as well as for the Group's aspect. Based on the results, the following 8 issues arose for stakeholders, distinguished in order of materiality, and are presented below: 1. Exploiting Νew Τechnologies (Q4) The Bank utilizes new technological solutions in order to enhance the quality of products/services to the benefit of its customers. 2. Customer Service with Responsibility and Transparency (Q1) The treatment of customers in a responsible manner also includes among other things promoting products/services from the Bank's servicing channels with transparency. 3. Reduction of the Bank's Operational Environmental Impact (Q9) The Bank implements its Environmental Policy through relevant programs (e.g. recycling, efficient management of natural resources) and through rising its employees' environmental awareness, in order to reduce its environmental footprint. 4. Continuous Improvement of Products/Services Provided by the Bank (Q2) The Bank adopts methods in order to identify potential negative consequences of offered products/services to its customers, while introducing practices that lead to their mitigation and eventually to their elimination. 16 Sustainable Development Report 5. A Network of Museums in Regional Greece, Supporting Local Communities (Q14) The Bank operates a network of thematic museums in the regions of Greece, featuring the nature of manufacturing production of every region and thereby fostering employment, economic activity, tourism and the overall development of local communities. 6. Promotion of the Greek Cultural Heritage and Connection Between Culture and the Environment and Sustainable Development (Q13) The Bank documents, highlights and promotes the cultural heritage of Greece, while promoting the threefold bond Humanity-Environment-Culture. 7. Cultural, Scientific and Educational Activities (Q15) The Bank organizes cultural, scientific and educational activities in Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation's (PIOP) network of museums in various regions of Greece, as well as in Athens and Thessaloniki, utilizing them as sites for culture and life-long learning. 8. Continuous Employee Training (Q5) The Bank ensures the continuous training of employees and the enhancement of their competitive advantage, targeting the management of operational risk, the high level of service and the growth of its banking operations and business. The first chart below depicts the results of the materiality analysis of the survey regarding the 2016 Sustainable Development Report. The horizontal axis represents how stakeholders perceive the materiality of each issue and the vertical axis represents the evaluation given by Piraeus Bank Group, regarding the significance of the impact of these issues on the economy, society and the environment. The Bank has selected to ensure 7 of the above issues, which are listed in the pillars of Sustainable Development (Q1, Q4, Q5, Q9, Q13, Q14, Q15), with an external firm (EΥ). It is duly noted that for the purpose of comparability with previous years, the Bank has selected to ensure two additional issues, specifically Q6 and Q10. Sustainable Development Report 17 Materiality Analysis 4.50 High Q1 Q14 Q9 Q13 Q4 Q15 Q3 Q6 Q16 Q12 Q8 Medium Q5 Q2 4.00 Q7 Q10 Significance of impact on sustainable development Q11 Low 3.50 Significance for shareholders 4.00 4.50 Q1 Customer service with responsibility and transparency Q10 Protection of biodiversity Q2 Continuous improvement of products / services Q11 Addressing Climate Change provided by the Bank Q12 Incorporation of an environmental and social risk Q3 Addressing the impact of the economic crisis management system in financing Q4 Exploiting new technologies Q13 Promotion of the Greek cultural heritage and connection Q5 Continuous training of employees between culture and the environment and sustainable Q6 Raising human rights awareness development Q7 Employees engagement to the Values of the Bank Q14 A network of museums in regional Greece, supporting local communities Q8 Support programs and health / wellness services for employees Q15 Cultural, scientific and educational activities Q9 Reduction of the Bank's operational environmental impact Q16 Research programmes and historical archive ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Tel: +30 210 2886 000 Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Fax:+30 210 2886 905 8B Chimaras street, Maroussi ey.com 151 25 Athens, Greece INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT* To the Management of Piraeus Bank S.A. The 2016 Sustainable Development Report ( the Report ) of Piraeus Bank S.A. ( the Bank ) has been prepared by the Bank’s Management, which is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility is limited in carrying out a limited assurance engagement on specific scope on the Report, with the exception of the Materiality Principle application for which we provide reasonable assurance, as well as the review of the Report’s in accordance -Core option adherence against the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards ( GRI Standards ). Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the Bank’s Management and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any responsibility and for any other purpose to any other person or organization. Any reliance any third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. Work Scope and Criteria The assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000 revised), in order to provide: 1. Limited level assurance on the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and the plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI General Disclosures that are required as a minimum prerequisite for the In accordance – Core option, according to the GRI 102 Standard. 2. Limited level assurance on the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of statements that correspond to (7) material topics, as those resulted from the Bank’s materiality analysis, against the requirements of the respective GRI Standards for these Specific Disclosures, as well as the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and the plausibility of qualitative information that correspond to these material topics, against the requirements of GRI 103 Standard Management Approach . The engagement also included a limited level assurance on 2 non material topics against the same criteria. 3. Reasonable level assurance on the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information regarding the application of the Materiality Principle, according to requirements of GRI 101 Standard. 4. Limited level assurance on the Report’s In accordance – Core adherence against the related GRI Standards’ requirements. The GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement are indicated in the Report’s GRI Content Index, found on pages 192-199. What we did to Form our Conclusions In order to form our conclusions we performed (but were not limited to) the steps outlined below: • Performed interviews with the Bank’s Management executives in order to understand its corporate responsibility and sustainable development processes, policies and activities for the reporting period. * This statement has been translated from the Greek original version. Sustainable Development Report 19 • Reviewed information in order to substantiate quantitative data and statements regarding the Bank’s sustainable development performance during 2016, as these are presented in the Report. • Reviewed the Bank’s processes for determining material topics to be included in the Report, the coverage of these material topics within the Report, as well as material topics resulted from Media review, and through Corporate Responsibility Reports of selected peers. • Reviewed the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data related to the results from the materiality analysis conducted by the Bank, as these are presented in the Report’s materiality map, and the plausibility of statements that pertain to the application of the materiality principle. • Reviewed the Bank’s stakeholder engagement process through, among others, our presence during a relevant discussion with a focus group. • Interviewed executives responsible for managing, collecting and processing data related to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, for both internal and public reporting purposes. • Reviewed data reported from the reporting entities (branches and management buildings) or from the Group’s subsidiaries, to decide on the level of coverage (depending on assigned boundaries) and to examine, for selected cases, the checks which have been applied at corporate level. • Reviewed relevant documentation and reporting systems, including, among others, data collation tools, standards and guidance documents. • Reviewed the Report for the appropriate presentation of the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, a procedure which also included discussions about limitations and assumptions relating to the way these data are presented. • Reviewed the GRI Content Index found on pages 192-199 as well as the relevant references included therein, against the GRI Standards’ requirements for the In accordance – Core option. Level of Assurance Our procedures for collecting evidence were designed in order to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we formed our conclusions, with the exception of the application of the Materiality Principle for which the relevant procedures for collecting evidence were designed in order to obtain a reasonable level of assurance. The extent of the procedures for collecting evidence for obtaining a limited level of assurance is less than those designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and therefore a lower level of assurance is obtained compared to a reasonable assurance engagement. Limitations of our Review • Our review was limited to the Greek version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in translation between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the Greek version of the Report prevails. • Our review was limited to information related to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, and did not include financial data nor the corresponding narrative text in the Report. • We do not provide any assurance relating to future performance such as estimates, expectations or targets, or their achievability. • The scope of our work did not include any third party activities or performance. In addition, it did not include any review of the accuracy of survey results assigned to third parties, nor Information Technology systems used by third parties, but was instead limited to the proper transposition of the final results -under the scope of our engagementto the Report. • Our review did not include testing of the Information Technology systems used or upon which the collection and aggregation of data was based by the Bank. Conclusions Based on our work and according to the terms of reference and the limitations of our review, we report the following conclusions. Our conclusions are based on the appropriate application of the selected criteria and should be read in conjunction with the What we did to form our conclusions section above. 1. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data and how plausible is the qualitative information related to the GRI General Disclosures under the scope of our engagement? • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any reporting unit or Group subsidiary company, according to the set boundary and time period stated in the Report, is not included in the quantitative data of the Report related to the GRI General Disclosures under the scope of our engagement. 20 Sustainable Development Report • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist in the collation of the quantitative data related to the GRI General Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, or in the transposition of these data to the Report, that would materially affect the way they are presented. • We have reviewed information and explanations on selected Management statements related to the GRI General Disclosures, as these are presented in the Report, for which no misstatements came to our attention. 2. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data and how plausible are the statements of the Specific Disclosures relating to the (7) material and (2) non-material topics under the scope of our engagement? • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any reporting unit or Group subsidiary company, according to the set boundary per material topic and the time period stated in the Report, is not included into the quantitative data of the Report related to the GRI Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist in the collation of the quantitative data related to the GRI Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, or in the transposition of these data to the Report that would materially affect the way they are presented. • We have reviewed information and explanations on selected statements, as they are presented in the Report, relating to the material topics under the scope of our engagement against the requirements of the GRI 103 Standard Management Approach , for which no misstatements came to our attention. 3. Is the Materiality Principle applied according to the requirements of GRI 101 Standard? • According to our opinion, the Report has been developed by reasonably applying, in all material respects, the Materiality Principle, according to the requirements of GRI101 Standard. 4. Does the Report meet the GRI Standards’ requirements of the In accordance – Core option? • Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements of the In accordance – Core option, as presented in the GRI Content Index, found on pages 192-199. Independence We have implemented a set of audit quality control policies and practices which meet the requirements of the International Standards on Quality Control issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), including the International Standard of Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1). We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants ( the Code ), which requires, among other requirements that the members of the engagement team, as well as the assurance Firm, are independent of the client, including not being involved in writing the Report. EY has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the existing independence rules as they are defined by the Code. EY and all professional personnel involved in this engagement have met these independence requirements. Assurance Team The professionals who participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services Global Network, which undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a global level. Athens, 13 June 2017 For and on behalf of ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. Vassilios Kaminaris Sustainable Development Report 21 Selected Figures Associated with the 2016 Sustainable Development Report Internal coverage Contribution to society, Active Group customers Shareholders of staffing needs culture and the environment 5.6 mn 83 thousand 99% 1.7% of annual (2016) recurring pretax and provision profit Employees Volunteer actions Customer satisfaction Index in Greece (of total respondent 18.1 thousand 118 customers) 94% Meetings / Briefings with investors and analysts 418 Training man – hours Volunteers Green Banking customers 814 thousand 12.5 thousand 23 thousand Group employees and their family members Human Resources Society Customers Shareholders Reporting date of data 31.12.2016 Selected Figures Associated with the 2016 Sustainable Development Report The Environment Environmental Management System Piraeus Bank has developed and implements an Environmental Management System (EMS) at all its Branches and Administration Buildings certified according to the regulation Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) and ISO 14001. Piraeus Bank is one of the largest organizations to have obtained this demanding environmental certification. European Business Awards for the Environment In 2016, with its entry in The Expandability of a Robust Certified EMS the Case of Piraeus Bank , the Bank was awarded first prize at a national level in the Management category for the development, structure and operation of the Environmental Management System it implements. With the same entry at a European level, the Bank received a distinction as one of the top 4 organizations out of 180 participations that have made significant environmental achievements. Key Environmental Achievements • 3% annual reduction in electricity consumption per employee. • 2% annual reduction of total CO2 emissions per employee. • 6% annual reduction in total paper consumption. • 48% annual increase in recycling of electrical and electronic equipment recycling. • 10% of total consumed paper was from sustainable management forests (FSC)1. • The climate exposure of the Bank's business borrowers was reassessed. • Building Energy Management Systems (BEMS) were installed in 85 branches. • 70 branches and administration buildings were renovated with energy and water saving -upgrading interventions. • In 6 buildings of the Group, more than 770 employees used environmentally-certified cleaning products. • More than 15mn statements and envelopes to customers were printed on FSC-certified paper. 1 FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), The Forest Stewardship Council mission is to promote environmentally sound, socially beneficial and economically prosperous management of the world’s forests. 28 Sustainable Development Report Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) • In 2016, the procedures were developed for the implementation of the Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) in the Group’s business financing. The Executive Committee approved the Policy to be implemented in all Piraeus Bank Group procedures. • The first step towards effective implementation of ESMS was the amendment of the Group’s Credit Policy, incorporating the controls required for the businesses’ compliance with their environmental and social responsibilities, in Greece and international subsidiaries. • Throughout 2016, training programs were held, related to all the range of Green Banking activities, amounting to 2,667 training man-hours. Additionally, in the framework of the ESMS, e-learning was launched for employees, in relation to social and environmental risk. • Proceeded with the shaping of a uniform Sustainability Policy, thus enhancing the present principles, policies and strategies of the Group. Green Banking • 1,017 MW of RES (Renewable Energy Sources) capacity funded by Piraeus Bank Group until the end of 2016, preventing the emission of over 2,120 mn tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere. • 6,000 new jobs on average created and maintained from the targeted funding by green banking for the period 2011-2016. • 12% increase versus 2015 in total Green Banking customers. By year-end 2016, more than 23,000 customers in total (individuals and businesses) have received Green Banking funding. Biodiversity • Reed bed management actions and procedures for regulation of the water level at Lake Stymphalia continued in 2016 as well, reaching 3 years since the commencement of the EU co-funded LIFE-Stymfalia project. • With the LIFE-Stymfalia project, Piraeus Bank introduced in Greece innovative solutions to the issue of financing of protected areas. These solutions require connecting management of nature with the quest for sustainable economic activity. • Piraeus Bank is one of the few financial institutions to participate in a network that promotes the European policy of business and biodiversity. Culture • 9  thematic museums in operation at select sites in Greek regional areas (Soufli, Dimitsana Arcadia, Lesvos island, Tinos island, Stymphalia in the mountainous region of Korinthia, Volos, Sparta, Chios, Ioannina). • 219,930 visitors in 2016, (193,329 Greek and 26,601 foreign visitors) of which 70% free of charge. • Operation of a Historical Archive as a multi-purpose cultural center for multiple recipients. • Enhancement of PIOP Library’s operation and expansion of its thematic titles with emphasis on the environment. • Enhancement and reinforcement of PIOP presence in Thessaloniki through implementation of an action plan with 5,161 participants in actions and training programs. • Inauguration of two new thematic museums: the Chios Mastic Museum and the Silversmithing Museum in Ioannina, with 35,000 and 15,000 visitors respectively in the first few months of the Museums’ operation. Sustainable Development Report 29 • E nvironmental programs for energy upgrading of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) museums. • 10 exhibitions, 123 cultural actions, 83 partnerships with other institutions, 132 educational actions for minors, 23 standard and 9 thematic educational programs, 19 series of actions and 12 horizontal actions at all the Museums of PIOP Network. • Partnerships with other institutions, such as the Museum of Cycladic Art, the National Theatre of Greece, the Athens State Orchestra, the Eugenides Foundation, the Science Center & Technology Museum NOESIS and the Diazoma Association Citizens for Greek Ancient Theatres. • Implementation, for the first time in Greece, of a research program to record, classify and map the cultural sites in the protected areas included in the Natura 2000 Cultural Sites . • Scientific support to the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Sports program for promotion of Greece’s Intangible Cultural Heritage (UNESCO). PIOP holds the UNESCO certification as an advisory body on matters of intangible cultural heritage. • Participation of PIOP’s Chairman in the National Committee for Intangible Cultural Heritage of the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Sports. • 2,456 volumes of PIOP publications were donated to libraries, social groups and organizations, 180 educational folders were delivered to schools, 1,166 volumes (15 titles) of PIOP publications were provided as university textbooks at significantly lower prices. • Participation of PIOP executives in national and international scientific and educational bodies. 30 Sustainable Development Report Corporate Responsibility Principles The European Commission defines Corporate Social Responsibility as the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society .2 For Piraeus Bank, Corporate Responsibility is the means by which businesses voluntarily incorporate social and environmental concerns into their business activities and in their interaction with other stakeholders. It regards the actions of businesses over and above their legal responsibilities towards society and the environment. Piraeus Bank is committed to including social, environmental, and cultural aspects into its business practices and assumes initiatives over and above the legal obligations with the aim of enhancing social welfare and sustainable development. 1. Corporate Governance Optimisation • Transparency in governance and operational structures, as well as in the processes of partners’ and providers’ assessment and selection. • Adoption and realisation of best practices of governance and operation. • Symmetric and systematic information dissemination to the investment and business communities, media and NGOs. 2. Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity • Effective customer service before and after product and service sales, with emphasis on the Bank’s consulting role. • Strengthening of entrepreneurial initiatives with the aim of promoting competitive fields with potential and prospects for growth. 3. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices • Development of a humane and responsible organisation, where competent, committed and inspired employees work collectively to lead the market through diversity, to innovate by adding value and to ensure the prosperity and sustainable development of the Group. 4. Harmonious Relationship with Social Partners • Returning part of the value generated by the Bank to its social partners within a strategically designed and systematic framework of social actions. 2 European Commission, A renewed EU strategy 2011-14 for Corporate Social Responsibility, 25.10.2011. Sustainable Development Report 31 5. Promotion of Culture • Active contribution to the promotion of Greece’s cultural identity through the creation, operation and maintenance of the network of thematic technological museums of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) which act as cultural focal points in the regions of Greece and by organizing scientific events and educational programs for adults and minors. • Continued implementation of research programs and publications relevant to the purposes of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP). • Safeguarding and highlighting of Piraeus Bank Group's Historical Archive. • Provision of scientific advisory material to public and local community bodies and shaping cultural policies. • Operation of a specialized library. • Interconnection of Culture and the Environment by means of the thematic field: Cultural Sites . 6. Environment Protection Using Natural Resources Responsibly and Supporting Environmentally Beneficial Business Activities • Systematic support of green entrepreneurship through integrated services to customers. A key concern is the development and support of an extensive range of green products and services. • Development of strategies to improve the Group’s environmental performance and reduce its operational environmental footprint. • Development of innovative solutions for business and biodiversity and enhancement of the social fabric. • Development of evaluation tools and procedures to manage regulatory and physical climate change risk. • Support to individuals and enterprises and preparation of market to better adapt to the effects of climate change. 32 Sustainable Development Report Piraeus Group Corporate Responsibility Strategic Targets A To strengthen i. To strengthen internal monitoring and compliance framework Corporate Governance ii. To strengthen the Group’s transparency and accountability iii. To promote extroversion Β To engage Human Resources i. To apply best practices in the workplace to allow for employee skill development ii. To create a common Corporate Responsibility culture iii. To place emphasis on continual environmental/social education and training of employees iv. To promote volunteerism and the notion of contribution to society C To develop a relationi. To inform shareholders and investors about the Group’s strategy and ship of cooperation with Corporate Responsibility issues our Shareholders and ii. To promote synergies and support civil society in order to achieve social Partners and environmental targets iii. To educate our customers in relation to their banking transactions and inform them about issues of society, culture and the environment iv. To establish a framework of environmental/ social approaches with our suppliers v. To strengthen society and vulnerable groups in particular D To support i. To organize entrepreneurship programs in fields such as agricultural dethe Knowledge Society velopment ii. To collaborate with Greek tertiary education institutions in the framework of student internships iii. To support educational institutions iv. To facilitate studies by means of targeted educational scholarships E To promote the Cultural i. To promote Greece’s production history by means of thematic museums, Heritage of Greece publications and other actions ii. To provide scientific knowledge regarding our cultural heritage iii. To interconnect culture and the environment iv. To protect and promote the Group’s Archive material v. To educate and sensitize citizens about our cultural heritage and for a more prosperous future. F To protect i. To reduce the environmental footprint from the Group’s operation the Environment ii. To develop strategies to deal with the Bank’s risk from climate change iii. To participate in the restoration and protection of biodiversity and ecosystems G To promote i. To create products and services that support businesses which support Green Entrepreneurship Green Entrepreneurship by means of investments in sustainable development in order to deal with climate change, loss of biodiversity and have as a main priority the creation and preservation of jobs ii. To support businesses, bodies and individuals whose investments are beneficial to society and the environment while ensuring the sustainability of such investments H To support the Young i. To enhance youth entrepreneurship Generation ii. To contribute to the efforts towards retaining the young generation in Greece iii. To create special youth training programs I To promote Innovation i. To invest in innovative digital applications for customer information, banking services, operation of PIOP Museums ii. To support business plans that promote innovation Sustainable Development Report 33 Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonisation with Global Standards Piraeus Bank actively participates in global initiatives and corporate sustainability indices. Through these initiatives and based on international standards and practices, the Bank undergoes continuous evaluation and develops its sustainability practices. Participation in Global Initiatives for Sustainable Development United Nations Global Compact Since 2004, Piraeus Bank has been voluntarily participating in the UN Global Compact, actively supporting it and promoting its principles, which pertain to human and labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. The 10 Global Compact principles and the actions taken by Piraeus Bank in order to comply with these are the following: 34 Sustainable Development Report Basic Principles Implementation Method Description or Reference to the 2016 Sustainable Development Report Human Rights 1. Support, respect and protection of internationally Full compliance of the Group with the proclaimed human rights within the businesses relevant Greek and international legislation and their sphere of influence Implementation of the Group’s Human Rights 2. Ensure that businesses have no complicity in Policy human rights abuses 2016 Sustainable Development Report, Human Resources Labour 3. Upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Full compliance of the Group with the 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory relevant Greek and international legislation labour 2016 Sustainable Development Report, 5. Effective abolition of child labour Human Resources 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The Environment 7. Support the precautionary principles in environmental challenges 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater 2  016 Sustainable Development Report, environmental responsibility Society, Culture and the Environment 9. Encourage the development and expansion of environmentally-friendly technologies Anti Corruption 10. Corporate action against all forms of corruption, Code of Conduct and Compliance Policy including extortion and bribery Relevant terms in employment contracts Labour Relations Framework Control mechanisms and procedures, and anti-money laundering information systems (including fraud detection) 2016 Sustainable Development Report, Corporate Governance United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Since 2007, Piraeus Bank has been participating in the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), having signed the UNEP Statement of Commitment by Financial Institutions on Sustainable Development. In accordance with the Statement of Commitment, Piraeus Bank recognises that economic development needs to be compatible with human welfare and a healthy environment and it has committed itself to taking into consideration protection of the environment, social responsibility and sustainable development in its business decisions. UN Global Compact Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform The Bank has signed the UN Global Compact Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform , which provides a framework for businesses to advance practical solutions and create public awareness on Climate Change issues. Paris Pledge for Action Initiative Piraeus Bank Group has joined the Paris Pledge for Action initiative, launched in the framework of the UN Climate Change Conference 2015 (COP21), whereby the Bank pledges to support the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Declaration of Intent for Energy Efficiency of the United Nations Environment Program Financial Initiative In September 2015 Piraeus Bank, co-signed the Declaration of Intent on Energy Efficiency of UNEP FI, recognising that the financial sector has the capability to direct capital flows towards activities and investments that promote energy efficiency. The Bank is willing to contribute actively and work for the development of such funding and guide customers to adopt Sustainable Development Report 35 best practices in their decisions. Lastly, the Bank is willing to co-operate with institutional and public bodies that pursue to develop funding tools for the climate. Positive Impact Manifesto for the Transition to an Inclusive Green Economy of UNEP FI In 2015, Piraeus Bank co-signed along with other banks the Positive Impact Manifesto for the Transition to an Inclusive Green Economy . The Manifesto promotes a common vision of funding projects that have a positive impact on society. EU Community of Practice Finance and Biodiversity – EU CoP F@Β Since 2016, Piraeus Bank has been participating in the EU Community of Practice Finance and Biodiversity (EU CoP F@Β) initiative to finance biodiversity. Declaration of Antwerp In 2016, Piraeus Bank co-signed the Declaration of Antwerp, raising the issue of refocusing the ecosystem services framework on the principles of sustainability and social justice. Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas) Since 2007, Piraeus Bank is a full member of CSR Hellas, actively participating in initiatives regarding the promotion of corporate responsibility and good practices that are developed in Greek businesses. ISO 26000 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (International Standard Guidelines For Social Responsibility) Since 2013, the Group has been abiding by the International Standard Guidelines for Social Responsibility ISO 26000, with the aim of strengthening and optimally incorporating social responsibility into the Organization’s values and principles. Corporate Sustainability Indices and Distinctions FTSE4Good Emerging Index Piraeus Bank is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, following its launch in December 2016, by the global index provider FTSE Russel Group. The FTSE4Good stock market index analyses the performance of businesses with the best practices in sustainability which meet internationally recognized standards of sustainable development. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Since 2010, Piraeus Bank has been submitting to the CDP information concerning its environmental performance and the respective actions and initiatives. In 2016, Piraeus Bank’s CDP rating rose by two levels to reach Management B . Piraeus Bank is the only Greek bank to have reached this level, thus proving that the Bank takes action in order to integrate climate risk and opportunity in its core business. Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register Piraeus Bank has been included for another year in the Ethibel ExCELLENCE Investment Register of the Forum ETHIBEL association. This selection is indicative of the Bank’s constant focus on Corporate Social Responsibility, performancing above average in the banking sector. 36 Sustainable Development Report Corporate Responsibility Index (CRI) Piraeus Bank is the only bank in Greece to receive the Diamond distinction for its Corporate Responsibility by the Corporate Responsibility Institute. Piraeus Bank participated in the Institute’s annual assessment (CR Index) for the 9th consecutive year. Oekom Research AG The rating agency oekom research AG rated the Bank’s performance regarding environmental and social issues with D+, thus recognising its integrated approach to the implementation of the Environmental Policy. European Business Awards for the Environment With its entry The Expandability of a Robust Certified EMS the Case of Piraeus Bank , the Bank was awarded first prize at a national level in the Management category for the development, structure and operation of the Environmental Management System it implements, at the European Business Awards for the Environment, which are organized by the European Commission. With the same entry at a European level, the Bank received distinction as one of the top 4 organizations out of 180 candidates to have made significant environmental achievements. The European Business Awards for the Environment is a prominent European institution which acknowledges European businesses that adopt policies for the protection of the environment, sustainable development and circular economy. Sustainable Development Report 37 Stakeholders’ Dialogue Piraeus Bank Group defines as the main stakeholders the natural and legal persons whose reasonable expectations and interests are significantly affected by its operation as well as those whose actions are reasonably assumed to directly impact the Group’s ability to successfully achieve its strategies and targets. In the framework of its activities and operations, the Group promotes regular communication with stakeholders, the frequency of which is determined by the nature of the relationship with the stakeholders in order to fulfill their needs and expectations and to promptly and effectively respond to issues concerning them. As a result, by means of the dialogue which was pursued in 2016 as well, the Group recognized that the key issues of stakeholders include the exploitation of new technologies to better serve their needs, respect of human rights, continuous employee training but also respect for the environment and culture as factors contributing to sustainable development. Investors Cooperation Framework Provision of complete, accurate and prompt information regarding the course and strategy of the Group, necessary to evaluate investment in Piraeus Bank. Means of Communication-Cooperation • D  isclosure of quarterly financial results (presentations, press releases, teleconferences, internet). Announcement of business developments (press releases, internet). • Contact with the Management and the special Investor Relations Unit (events, meetings, teleconferences, roadshows, conferences). • Immediate response to individual requests by means of website and e-mail contact form. Contact with the shareholder registry. • General Meetings of Shareholders. • Annual Business Report and Sustainable Development Report. 38 Sustainable Development Report Customers Cooperation Framework Responsible information and provision of products and services with respect to the code of business conduct and ethics. Means of Communication-Cooperation • 24h/7 Customer Call Centre. • Branch network and digital channels (e-branch, ATMs, e-banking, mobile banking). Customer service complaint handling procedure. • Seminars and informative meetings with customer groups. • Customer satisfaction survey at regular intervals. • Systematic dialogue between customers and the relationship management service for personalized service and management of their funds. • Immediate response to individual requests by means of website and e-mail contact forms. • Significant presence in social media. • Voice of Customer program: tool applied for systematic and structured collection and analysis of the customers’ experience with the Bank’s products and services. • Annual Business Report and Sustainable Development Report. Investment Analysts Cooperation Framework Information regarding the course and strategy of the Group to evaluate investment in Piraeus bank shares or securities. Means of Communication-Cooperation • R  egular contact with Management and specialized Investor Relations Unit (presentations, meetings, teleconferences, roadshows). • Disclosure of Financial Results on quarterly basis (presentations, press releases, teleconferences). • Communication of business developments (press releases, website). • Annual Business Report and Sustainable Development Report. Banks Cooperation Framework Mutual information sharing and collective representation in financial bodies. Means of Communication-Cooperation • Contact and meetings with relevant units at each bank. • Participation in legislative drafting or technical committees at an international, European and national level. • Cooperation with foreign financial agencies and associations in the framework of bilateral and multi-lateral collaborations. Sustainable Development Report 39 Business Community Cooperation Framework Mutual cooperation on a win-win basis. Means of Communication-Cooperation • R egular dialogue and cooperation with trade associations, commercial, and industrial chambers. • Participation in seminars and other information events. Employees & Their Families Cooperation Framework • O pen communication with employees and safeguarding their ongoing development, fair treatment and rewarding. • Provisions for strengthening employee resilience in order to effectively manage the challenges they face in all aspects of their lives. • Employee sensitization and strengthening of dialogue regarding corporate responsibility issues. Means of Communication-Cooperation • Internal network (Intranet–HR Portal). • Piraeus Bank Group Employee Culture and Satisfaction surveys as well as smaller-scale surveys (polls, views). • Open communication with all employees concerning staffing needs to offer development and transfer opportunities. • Meetings/briefings. • Focus groups. • Training and development programs. • Established procedures for employee performance reviews and competency appraisals. • Collective Representation. • Assistance Programs for employees and their families. • Volunteer actions with employee participation. • Employee-Volunteer Interest Survey. • Employee cultural sensitivity actions. State-Regulatory Authorities Cooperation Framework Group compliance with the regulatory framework. Means of Communication-Cooperation • Ordinary and extraordinary communication with supervisory authorities. • Data provision, report compilation, meetings, participation in consultations. 40 Sustainable Development Report Local Communities Cooperation Framework Supporting local actions. Means of Communication-Cooperation • O  peration of Museum Network on a national level (support to local economies, job creation, collaboration with local suppliers). • Organization/support of local social and cultural events/cultural tours and training programs at local level. • Providing guidance for cultural development projects to third parties. The Media Cooperation Framework Information, communication and promotion of corporate actions and products of the Group. Means of Communication-Cooperation • Press releases and conferences. • Communication through the Bank’s Press Office. • Social Media. Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) Cooperation Framework Supporting environmental and social actions. Means of Communication-Cooperation • S ynergies for actions of interest for society, culture and the environment. • Cooperation for the implementation of volunteer and training actions. • Cooperation for the implementation of common European projects for the protection of biodiversity and the environment. • Cooperation for support of vulnerable groups. • Financial support of specific NGO actions. Suppliers/Service Providers Cooperation Framework Cooperation on a win-win basis. Means of Communication-Cooperation • E stablished procedures for the participation, evaluation and selection of suppliers and service providers through outsourcing. • Seminars, informational meetings and attendance of live material demonstrations for large procurements of information systems, green supplies & procurement etc. Sustainable Development Report 41 Credit Rating Agencies Cooperation Framework Information regarding the course and strategy of the group to evaluate the credit rating of Piraeus bank. Means of Communication-Cooperation • Regular communication and meetings with the management and the relevant bank units. • Provision of financial data and information. Corporate Governance Piraeus Bank applies a corporate governance system which is governed by the provisions of its mandatory institutional framework of operation, its Articles of Association, the Internal Corporate Governance and Operating Regulations, the Relationship Framework Agreement (henceforth RFA) entered into with the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF), its obligations towards the Monitoring Trustee as well as by international corporate governance best practices. Committed to the principles of transparency, reliability, accountability, timely and precise information provision in accordance with its corporate governance framework, Piraeus Bank ensures the continuous upgrading of its governance, internal control and regulatory compliance systems, in order to achieve on an on-going basis, among others, the following: • t he strengthening of the relationship of trust with its domestic and foreign investors, shareholders, employees and customers, • the protection of its corporate interests as well as equal treatment and protection of its shareholders and their interests, and • full transparency and impartiality in the decision-making process of the Bank's corporate bodies. In this context, Piraeus Bank: • H  as adjusted its Board of Directors’ (BoD) composition in order to comply with the applicable legislation pertaining to Executive, Non-Executive and Independent members. The designation of BoD members as independent is based on the criteria set by Law 3016/2002 and the Greek banking regulatory framework. The requirements of both the aforementioned law and the regulatory framework are also met in all cases of independent candidate nominations by the BOD. Moreover, the banking legislation, the banking regulatory authority as well as Law 3864/2010 under the provisions of which the Piraeus Bank falls following the capital support it has received, require particularly high skills and competence of the banks’ BoD members both individually and as a whole. Some of these skills and competences can only be acquired through extensive banking experience. In 2016, Piraeus Bank BoD elected 7 (seven) new members in replacement of resigned ones. These changes played a significant role in strengthening the BoD and the corporate governance framework as the BoD was enhanced with Sustainable Development Report 47 international leadership experience and know-how in sectors of strategic importance, including those of banking restructuring and of NPL reduction. At the same time, the BoD diversity has significantly improved thus contributing to the preservation and enhancement of competitiveness and innovation as well as to the achievement of optimal team effectiveness and performance. The Bank’s BoD Member Nomination Committee played a decisive role in successfully implementing the aforementioned structural changes. The aims of the Committee are: a) the identification and recommendation for the approval of the BoD or of the general meeting, of candidates to fill BoD vacancies, b) the evaluation of BoD members' combination of breadth of knowledge per subject and of experience and c) the description of the individual skills and qualifications that it deems necessary to fulfill the BoD member positions. The suitability of BoD members is evaluated by the ECB’s Single Supervisory Mechanism. For as long as the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF) holds shares or contingent convertible bonds of Piraeus Bank, BoD members are obliged to fulfill the criteria of law 3864/2010 and are subject to evaluation under the same law. It is duly noted that in 2016, the Bank’s BoD Member Nomination Committee also proceeded with a) the reviewing of the Policy on the Nomination of Directors and b) the processing of the BoD and BoD Committees Self-Assessment Policy as well as a BoD Diversity Policy. Moreover, the Committee contributed to the smooth conduct of the BoD’s evaluation. Piraeus Bank has: • T he Audit Committee, comprised of non-Executive BoD members, which monitors and evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control System at Parent and Group level, based on the data and information provided by the Internal Audit Unit, including the findings and remarks of the external auditors and regulatory authorities. • The Risk Management Committee, which aims to effectively manage all forms of risk (credit, market, operational, etc.), ensure integrated risk control, expert risk management and the required coordination on individual and consolidated basis. • The Corporate Governance and Board of Directors Secretary units, which are responsible for the development of Corporate Governance actions and programs approved by the Management, for the supervision of their implementation in the Bank and the Group’s companies in Greece and abroad, and also for the operational support provided to the BoD and its Committees on the basis of Corporate Governance best practices. • The Internal Corporate Governance and Operating Regulations Manual, which ensures transparency and symmetrical information, and encompasses issues which are not stipulated in the Bank’s Articles of Association but are indispensable for its smooth operation. It also has the Code of Conduct, which describes the obligations of the Group’s employees. • The Group’s Internal Audit (Internal Audit Unit under Act 2577/2006 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece), which is independent, reports to the Board of Directors –through the Audit Committee– and the CEO of the Bank, and is responsible for Groupwide internal control. • The Compliance Unit, which establishes and applies procedures and prepares the annual compliance program in order to achieve the Group’s timely and continuous compliance with the applicable regulatory framework, to ensure complete adjustment to the regulatory framework on preventing the involvement of the banking system in legalizing funds that originate from criminal activities and combating terrorism. • The Investor Relations, Shareholder Registry and Corporate Announcements units, which are entrusted with the task of providing information to investors, shareholders and appropriate regulatory authorities accordingly. • Following the Second Economic Adjustment Program for Greece and in the framework of the commitments undertaken by the Greek State, the firm KPMG was appointed as Monitoring Trustee. The Monitoring Trustee is responsible for monitoring the Revised 48 Sustainable Development Report Restructuring Plan of Piraeus Bank (as approved by the European Commission and the HFSF on 29.11.2015) as well as the commitments accompanying it in compliance with the European Commission’s rules regarding state aid. The Monitoring Trustee’s powers include verifying compliance with the rules of good governance ( Commitments on Corporate Governance and Commercial Operational Practices ). To this end, the Monitoring Trustees representatives participate as observers in executive and other significant committees, including the Risk Management and Audit Committees. • Following submission to the provisions of Law 3864/2010, Piraeus Bank and the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF) co-signed on 27.11.2015 the Relationship Framework Agreement (RFA). The RFA determines the relationship between the Bank and the HFSF, as well as the issues related, among others, to: a) the Corporate Governance, b) the monitoring of the implementation of the revised Restructuring Plan, c) the monitoring of the implementation of NPL management framework and of the Bank’s performance on this, d) the Material Obligations and the switch to full voting rights by the HFSF, e) the HFSF’s consent on Material Matters, f) the monitoring of implementation of the Bank’s policy regarding NPLs and g) the rights of the HFSF representative in the Bank’s BoD. It is noted that the Bank’s Management Bodies continue to independently determine the Bank’s business strategy and policy, according to the Restructuring Plan and the Bank’s Management Bodies continue to hold the responsibility for the day-to-day operations. Draft of the aforementioned RFA is published on the HFSF internet site (www.hfsf.gr). Supreme Management Bodies The supreme body of Piraeus Bank is the Shareholders’ General Meeting, and which is responsible for electing the Board of Directors that manages and represents the Bank judicially and extrajudicially as well as for designing its strategic orientation. Piraeus Bank’s Board of Directors, which was elected by the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders on May 16, 2014, for a three-year term (excluding the representative of the HFSF) has the following composition at present, after changes (resignations, replacement of Members), the formation of the BoD into a body and the appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Members, according to Law 3016/2002: Chairman of the Board of Directors George P. Handjinicolaou, Non-Executive Member Vice Chairmen Iakovos G. Georganas, A’ Vice Chairman, Non-Executive Member Karel De Boeck, father’s name Gerard, B’ Vice Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Member Executive Board Members Christos I. Megalou, Managing Director (CEO) George I. Poulopoulos, Deputy Managing Director Non-Executive Board Members Solomon Berahas, father’s name Albert, Non-Executive Member Alexander Z. Blades, Non-Executive Member Arne Berggren, father’s name Sten, Independent Non-Executive Member Enrico Tomasso Cucchiani, father’s name Clemente, Independent Non-Executive Member David Hexter, father’s name Richard, Independent Non-Executive Member Sustainable Development Report 49 The following person also participates in the Board of Directors Aikaterini K. Beritsi, HFSF Representative (Law 3864/2010) In 2016, the Board of Directors held a total of twenty (20) meetings, while the average rate of Member participation reached 94.9%. For the purpose of continuously improving the organizational structure of the Bank and the Group, specialized duties have been assigned to the following key Committees: Board of Directors Committees Audit Committee Risk Management Committee Remuneration Committee Board Members’ Nomination Committee Strategic Planning Committee Main Executive, Administrative & other Committees and Councils Group Executive Committee Supervisory & NPL Management Council Information Technology (IT) Planning and Operating Quality Committee Senior Credit Committee Recovery Credit Committee (RBU) Asset-Liability Management Committee (ALCO) Expenditure Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Appeals Committee Macroeconomic Affairs Committee Real Estate Committee Data Governance Committee International Property Committee Remuneration Policy A remuneration policy has been established, as an integral part of the Group’s corporate governance, aimed at deterring from excessive risk-taking and at continually strengthening the Group’s values and long-term interests. The Remuneration Policy, designed based on the framework of the Governor’s Act 2650/19.1.2012 of the Bank of Greece, of the subsequent provisions of Law 4261/2014 (regarding employee remuneration) and of article 450 of EU Regulation No 575/2013 and No 604/2014, is in accordance with the Group’s business strategy and supports its performance-driven culture, which aligns the organization’s goals with those of the interested parties, employees, management and shareholders. The remuneration-defining procedures are clear, recorded and with internal transparency. Basic Principles The Remuneration Policy is based on the following principles: • Maximization of performance • Talent attraction and retention • Alignment of remuneration and rewards with profitability, risk, capital adequacy and sustainable growth • Compliance with the regulatory framework • Internal transparency • Deterring from excessive risk-taking. 50 Sustainable Development Report Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for regular reviews of the Group’s Remuneration Policy as well as for monitoring its implementation. The Committee is composed of NonExecutive BoD members, the majority of whom are independent, including the Chairman. The Committee takes into account the long-term interests of the shareholders, the investors and other involved parties in the credit institution. It is oriented towards long-term, prudent management of the institution and towards prevention or minimizing of conflict of interest situations which would be detrimental to this management. The function and detailed responsibilities of the Committee are governed by its regulation framework. Its responsibilities include: • P  reparing the decisions concerning remuneration, ultimately taken by the BoD which should correspond to their authority, duties, specialization, performance and responsibilities of the BoD and which have an effect on the institution’s risk-taking and management and monitoring of the implementation of these decisions. • Ensuring that during the evaluation of the mechanisms adopted to align the remuneration policy with risks undertaken, all kinds of risks along with the Bank’s liquidity and capital adequacy are taken into account. • Ensuring the necessary advisory contribution of the supervised institution’s relevant units (Risk Management, Regulatory Compliance, Internal Audit, Human Resources, Strategic Planning) is provided for shaping, reviewing and consistently applying the remuneration policy, as well as for external experts – when deemed necessary by the BoD. Other Involved Parties The Remuneration Policy is designed by the Group’s Human Resources with the participation of the Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit Units. It is submitted to the Remuneration Committee which in turn proceeds with any potentially necessary changes before submitting it to the BoD’s non-executive members for final approval. The independent audit units contribute to the design of the Remuneration Policy; however, they are primarily involved with the Policy’s review and monitoring process, which is conducted at least once a year. The non-executive members of the BoD could, if deemed necessary, collaborate with an external advisor. It is duly noted that no external advisor participated in the shaping/ review of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy in 2016. Remuneration Structure Total remuneration may include variable components, apart from the fixed ones, in order to ensure a link between remuneration and long-term business effectiveness. In all cases, standard remuneration constitutes the greatest part of total remuneration. Variable remuneration may be provided as reward for performance based on pre-defined qualitative and quantitative targets and are linked to the individual’s performance, their Unit, the Group and the long-term business targets. Indicative criteria that are assessed for payment of variable remuneration may include among other, profitability, minimum capital adequacy, effectiveness, management of change, development of partnerships etc. Variable remuneration is paid or guaranteed only when they are acceptable based on the Group’s broader financial condition and on performance. It should be noted that evaluation of employees with control duties is not linked to the outcome of the processes/units audited by them. In order to strengthen the link between variable remuneration and long-term Group targets, the award of variable remuneration is spread over time; the amounts awarded for both deferred and non-deferred variable components, are not only paid in cash but in other instruments as well (eg shares). Criteria for Cancellation/Return of Variable Remuneration The Bank may cancel payment of deferred variable remuneration if specific performance indicators are not met. The same may apply if serious breaches in regulations/procedures are detected. Sustainable Development Report 51 Moreover, if at a later date it is decided that the reasons for payment of this variable remuneration were wrong, the total deferred payment originally calculated may be cancelled. If deceit or misleading of the Group concerning payment of variable remuneration is detected, the employee may be required to return it, subject to compliance with labor legislation. Principle of Proportionality The Bank applies the current regulatory framework based on the Principle of Proportionality, taking into consideration the Bank’s nature and size, its structure and the complexity of activities etc. Remuneration Disclosure The following tables provide quantitative information on remuneration of senior management and employees with significant impact on the Group’s risk profile, analyzed per business sector. 52 Sustainable Development Report Chart 1: Remuneration per Business Sector (In thousand €) Total number of Total Fixed Total Variable employees Remuneration* Remuneration per business area Investment Banking 18 2,082.86 0.00 Retail Banking 116 10,120.50 3.30 Asset Management 12 378.69 0.00 Support Operations 61 5,938.57 0.00 Independent Control Operations 37 1,669.05 0.00 Other Operations 14 1,536.96 218.86 * Including severance payment amounts due to Voluntary Exit Scheme (VES). The VES was implemented by Piraeus Bank Group and formulated according to general criteria. The Scheme was addressed to all employees in Piraeus Bank and its Greek subsidiaries, with indefinite term employment contracts and in-house lawyers. VES severance payments were not associated with risk assumption as per the Bank of Greece Governor’s Act 2650/19.01.12. VES Scheme has been duly authorized by the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF). Chart 2: Employee Remuneration Subject to Remuneration Policy (in thousand €) Bod Members Senior Mangement** Employees Whose Actions Directly Impact Risk Profile Employee numbers per category 88 26 258 Total fixed remuneration 6,631 4,934 21,727 Total variable remuneration, of which: In cash: 222 In shares: Financial means related to shares: Other means: Total deferred remuneration, of which: Vested:*** Non-vested:*** 197 Deferred remuneration to be paid and reduced by adjustments Employees who received sign-in payment Total amount of sign-in payment Employees who received severance payment Highest severance payment amount paid to an individual ** Senior Management includes employees whose actions directly impact the Group’s risk profile. *** Vested remuneration and non-vested deferred remuneration paid in 2016 is included in total remuneration. Internal Audit System The Piraeus Bank Group has set up a strong Internal Audit System (IAuS) which constitutes a detailed set of recorded auditing mechanisms and processes which constantly cover all its activities and transactions and contribute to its effective and secure operation. The Group systematically monitors the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing System, which, in accordance with the effective statutory framework, is supported by an integrated communication and Management Information System (MIS) as well as mechanisms which complement each other and constitute an integrated audit system of the organizational structure and the activities of the Bank. Sustainable Development Report 53 Responsible for implementing the IAuS are: 1. The Internal Auditor 2. The Audit Committee 3. The Internal Audit Unit For more details on IAuS, please refer to: Annual Financial Report 2016>Corporate Governance Statement Internal Audit The Group’s Internal Audit is independent and reports to the Bank’s Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee while it supervises and coordinates the activities of Internal Control units in the Group subsidiaries. Within this context, in 2016, the Group’s Internal Audit: • M  aintained its continual observation and monitoring of branch activities in Greece and subsidiary banks in Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Albania, Ukraine and Serbia by means of the Regional Divisions’ Auditors, and in particular by developing scenarios of examination of related transactions. • Continued the development of a data base using own resources aimed at electronic transaction tracing, the development of fraud identification and prevention scenarios , and at supporting the auditing work performed by Regional Divisions’ Auditors. • Provided consulting in the development of specific Bank processes in order for them to incorporate proper auditing mechanisms. • Participated in the development and conducting of specialized seminars on more effective operation of branches and combating fraud. • Contributed to further strengthening of the Anti Money Laundering (AML) monitoring process at Greek branch network level. • Conducted the relevant monitoring of effectiveness and efficiency of the Internal Audit system and the Recovery Banking Unit as well as of the framework for the management of obligations regarding loans in arrears and nonperforming loans (Executive Committee’s Act/ BoG/42/30.05.14). • Monitoring that corporate governance rules are being implemented with emphasis on monitoring of related party transactions, in accordance with the relevant requirements of the Bank’s binding RFA agreement with the HFSF. • Continued training and further specialization of its managers, directing them towards appropriate professional certifications (CIA, CISA, CFE, CFSA etc.) and towards their further specialization. The 2017 action plan for the Group’s Internal Audit, which aims to continuously perform its duties smoothly and successfully in order to strengthen IAuS operation in the parent Bank, as well as in Group subsidiaries in Greece and abroad, will place particular emphasis on the following, among others: • F urther developing scenarios of examination and search of related transactions. The system is already successfully operating in Greece, Albania, Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine. • Implementation of the credit policy and practices manual regarding compliance with invoicing processes based on risks and ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the centralized credit control system. 54 Sustainable Development Report • T he adequacy and effectiveness of IAuS for the Group Recovery Banking Unit, including monitoring of set targets. • Compliance with the framework of the supervisory responsibilities for management of obligations regarding loans in arrears and nonperforming loans (Executive Committee’s Act/BoG/42/30.05.14). • Monitoring that corporate governance rules are being implemented with emphasis on the BoD Committees regulations, in accordance with the relevant requirements of the Bank’s binding RFA agreement with the HFSF. • The adequacy and effectiveness of the Internal Audit in Risk Management, with emphasis on the transition to the IRB methods, the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). • Application of quality assurance in audit processes at Group level. • Developing internal audit key performance indicators for effective monitoring of the Internal Audit’s operatrion. • Support the Management for more effective monitoring of findings that remain pending. • Participation of Internal Audit executives of the Group as speakers at training sessions targeted mainly at Branch executives and new employees, with the aim of informing them about risks assumed while conducting transactions. External Auditors According to the resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders of Piraeus Bank made on 26.06.2016, the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers was chosen as Certified Auditors for Piraeus Bank’s stand alone and consolidated financial statements for 2016. More specifically, Ms Despina Marinou (Reg. no 17681) was appointed Regular Certified Auditor. It is noted that in accordance with Law 4449/2017as of 2017, the Certified Auditors may offer their services for a period of no more than five consecutive years and their reappointment may take place after the lapse of three consecutive years. Management of Relations with Supervisory Authorities & Support of Financial Management Supervisory Relations Unit In accordance with the new supervisory framework and due to the number of supervisory/institutional authorities monitoring the Bank [ECB (SSM, SRM), Bank of Greece, HFSF, Monitoring Trustee etc)], in 2015, the special Supervisory Relations Unit was formed with the aim of managing the Bank’s communication with these authorities. The main duties of the Unit are to provide timely and accurate information to the Supervisory Authorities, management of requests as well as consistency in sending the relevant reports. In addition, a key area of responsibility for the Unit is the coordination of the Bank’s Units in order to better manage requests and ensure the necessary response mechanisms to the supervisory requests and the supervisory reports. Finally, the Unit is also responsible for informing the Bank’s management about the requested data and reports as well as about the areas requiring management's intervention with the aim of enhancing the Group’s image towards the Supervisory Authorities. In 2016, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: • T otal supervision and management of Group relations and communication with the Supervisory Authorities and of the relevant feedback within the Group. • Management of relationship with the Monitoring Trustee (KPMG), monitoring of the action plan for the implementation of the Restructuring Plan's commitments as well as the coordination of the Bank Units and Group companies to ensure strict and timely compliance with the Corporate Governance and Commercial Practices Commitments. Sustainable Development Report 55 • M  anagement of relationship with the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF) as well as coordination of the Bank Units and Group companies to ensure strict and timely compliance with the Commitments of the Relationship Framework Agreement. • Coordination for the preparation of regular and ad-hoc reports such as: the daily report for the deposits, the SREP-STE-3-month report, the Basel III Regular Monitoring Exercise-6-month report, MREL/BCBS QIS-6-month report, MMSR-daily reports, Shipping portfolio-3-month report. • Coordination for Resolution Planning and submission of the relevant reports to the new supervisory SRM (Single Resolution Mechanism). • Monitoring of compliance with supervisory audits' remarks. • Coordination and monitoring of implementation of the Supervisory projects such as the IFRS9 Thematic Review, Internal Governance Thematic Review, Executive Committee’s Act 102, NPE Stocktake. Financial Support Unit The aim of the Financial Support Unit is to analyze and detect areas of improvement and coordinate the implementation of inter-Unit projects of strategic importance which upgrade the Group’s overall economic position and value. The Unit is also responsible for monitoring projects and expenses approved at Group level. In 2016, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: • Participation in the annual SREP 2016 assessment of the Bank by the ECB. • Project Management Office (PMO) regarding the strategy for NPLs/NPEs management and three-year target-setting, submitted to the ECB/SSM. For the purposes of the exercise, which will take place annually, a provision tool was created regarding the evolution of NPLs/NPEs. • Project Management Office (PMO) for the implementation of the new accounting standard IFRS 9, that affects the Classification, Measurement and Impairment of Financial Assets. The project has 36 distinct sub-projects and is to be completed in Q1 of 2018. • Project Management Office (PMO) regarding the requirement for the provision of analytical credit data to the ECB/SSM (Anacredit) with completion date within 2018. • Participation in various strategic projects regarding the better management of NPEs. • Participation in the PMO of Value Based Management project, whose aim is to assess the value created by all business activities of the Bank. Supervisory Projects Unit The aim of the Supervisory Projects Unit is to coordinate all relevant Bank and Group Units to ensure and prepare the necessary infrastructure thus providing optimal response to the supervisory inspections and the regular supervisory data/reports required. It is also responsible for managing the relations and communication with the supervisory mechanisms both during on-site inspections and for the regular supervisory reports required. In 2016, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: • T he Loan Files Quality Review (LFQR) and Credit Loss Projection (CLP) internal project regarding the provisions for coverage of borrowers’ loan file deficiencies as well as assessment of possible exposures. • Project Management Office (PMO) regarding various inspections by the Supervisory Mechanism in the Bank as well as internal projects requiring coordinated actions by various Bank Units. 56 Sustainable Development Report Compliance The Group’s Compliance Unit operates according to the Basel III supervisory framework and the relevant guidelines of the Bank of Greece. It is headed by the Group Compliance Officer, who is responsible for the Group’s Compliance Function. The Group’s Compliance Unit reports directly to the Bank’s Board of Directors through the Audit Committee, which monitors and assesses its work by means of reports and updates, and it is audited by the Group’s Internal Audit in terms of the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance procedures. According to the Bank’s current organization chart, the Group’s Compliance reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer on administrative issues. 2016 Actions • In order to deal with the increased compliance duties of the Bank, the Group’s Compliance organizational structure was amended, with the creation of two new areas of responsibility and the restructuring of existing ones. • Updating of the Group Compliance Policy to incorporate the recent amendments in the regulatory framework. • In the framework of continuously improving its systems and applications, the Group’s Compliance upgrated its IT systems in order to monitor the submission of the supervisory reports. • Requests by Financial, Judicial and Supervisory Authorities were duly responded. • General and special inspections in Bank branches, Units and in Greek and international subsidiaries were performed. The inspections regarded money laundering and terrorist funding and compliance with the regulatory framework in general, aiming for timely detection of possible deviations from the provisions of the regulatory framework. • Review and monitoring of the implementation of the agreed corrective measures for impairment of the regulatory risk. • Analysis of the key institutional documents and updating of the Compliance Chart with the new regulatory provisions. Based on the new requirements, Compliance collaborated with the relevant units -where requiredin order to integrate them in the Bank’s internal procedures. • Assessment of new and existing processes, products, services and advertising in relation to the requirements of the regulatory framework. • Participation in the execution of training programs aimed at informing and training Bank employees on money laundering and terrorist funding as well as other issues of regulatory compliance. • In the framework of Compliance’s responsibilities in relation to the supervision of the Group’s Greek and international subsidiaries, it coordinated, supported, and assessed the respective Compliance Units’ performance. Sustainable Development Report 57 2017 Key Targets • C  ontinuous monitoring of changes in the institutional and regulatory framework as well as analysis and monitoring of the framework in order to ensure that the appropriate processes and systems have been developed. The Group’s Compliance is to participate in specific projects for the implementation of the new requirements of the regulatory framework. • Upgrading of the AML system regarding constant monitoring of transactions, in relation to money laundering and terrorist funding. • Updating of the assessment and analysis of the regulatory risk for Piraeus Bank and its Subsidiaries, taking into account additional factors of regulatory risk. • Inspections in Bank branches, Units and in the Bank’s subsidiaries to assess their compliance with the regulatory framework and adopt corrective actions in possible deviations. • Updating of training material related to regulatory compliance issues following relevant changes as well as Compliance’s participation in the Bank employees’ training seminars. • Continuous training of Compliance Units’ employees in the Bank’s Subsidiaries. The Group Compliance has certified its processes according to ISO 9001:2008 standards. For further information regarding the Group’s Compliance Policy and duties please refer to: www.piraeusbankgroup.com> Investors>Corporate Governance>Compliance, in the framework of the new Compliance structure and operation Shareholder Relations Investor and Analysts Relations Investor information is provided to individual and institutional investors by the Investor Relations Unit, with the active involvement of the Top Management. Its purpose is to provide systematic and symmetrical information to individual and institutional investors regarding the course and strategy of Piraeus Bank Group. During 2016, a total of 715 meetings/briefings were held with investors and analysts both in Greece and abroad, compared to 818 meetings/briefings held in 2015. Shareholder Registry The Shareholder Registry is responsible for providing direct and symmetrical information to all shareholders, as well as assisting them in exercising their rights in accordance with the law and the Bank’s Articles of Association. Corporate Announcements Corporate announcements are the responsibility of the Corporate Announcements Service. It was set up in accordance with Law 3016/2002 and the Capital Market Commission’s Board resolution no. 5/204/14.11.2000, and is responsible for the Bank’s compliance with the institutional framework of this resolution. The Bank’s announcements are sent to the Hellenic Exchanges in order to be recorded in the Daily Official List and to inform the investors. Shareholder Structure Piraeus Bank is a multi-shareholder company. In December 2016, the total number of Piraeus Bank’s shareholders was 83,000. Out of the total common shares (8,733,183,280 shares of nominal value €0.30 each) 26% was held by the HFSF and 74% by the private sector (more specifically, 68% legal entities and 6% by individuals). Piraeus Bank Group’s shareholder structure was: 58 Sustainable Development Report Shareholders’ Structure Individuals 6% Legal Entities 68% HFSF 26% Customer and Supplier Relationships Customer Relationship As the largest bank in Greece in terms of market share in assets, loans and deposits, Piraeus Bank Group has a key role in the restarting of the economy and the return to economic growth, contributing to the well-being of its customers, as well as of the broader society in which it operates. With the vision of being the #1 bank of trust in Greece, Piraeus Bank Group creates long term value for its customers by focusing on responding to their needs, taking into account economic, social and environmental factors. It has built relationships of trust by providing clear information, transparency in contractual terms and security in all types of banking transactions and at all servicing channels, including electronic. The Bank has adopted specialized monitoring mechanisms through all stages of creation, promotion and provision of its products, thus ensuring compliance to the principles of the regulatory framework as well as the rules of the Code of Banking Ethics. The products and services offered are defined accurately, without exaggerations, inaccurate or misleading statements, excessive promotion or attempts to conceal any features of such products and services, eliminating any possibility of exploitation, on behalf of the Group, of the public’s unfamiliarity, inexperience or fears. To this end, the contribution of the Promotion and Advertising Committee and the Group’s Regulatory Compliance is invaluable, the former with its evaluation and approval of the content and style of the campaign and the latter by ensuring that the content is in full compliance with the regulatory framework. Additionally, the Bank takes care to enhance its customers' financial literacy in order to familiarize them with banking terminology thus facilitating their access to its services. Particular emphasis is placed on informing and educating customers about the use of new technologies and the digital service channels. New technologies have changed the shape of bank product provision with e-banking transactions now constituting a significant percentage of total transactions. In an effort to assist customers not familiar with new technologies, in 2016 as well, digital devices were utilized in combination with free wifi access at branches in order to promote and demonstrate the functionality of e-banking to customers. Retail Banking customer experience is an aspect of great value for the Bank and consequently particular emphasis is placed on it. More specifically, a specialized team has been formed, which assesses, records and measures customer experience, satisfaction and loyalty at significant points of interface with Retail Banking products and services. Contact with customers is made within 48 hours of this interface with the Bank, for the experience to be as recent as possible. Indicatively, some of the customer satisfaction measurement tools are NPS (Νet Promoter Score) for Retail Banking products and CES (Customer Effort Score). Specifically, in 2016, 55,000 Retail Banking customers completed the Voice of the Customer questionnaire, which resulted in 403 improvement actions in 6 areas of Retail Banking. At the same time, feedback from the Bank’s customers is collected by means of the specialized online reputation tool, for monitoring and recording customer comments in the Bank’s Social Media and in third-party websites and blogs. Sustainable Development Report 65 New Technologies for Customer Service Upgrading Piraeus Bank aims to differentiate itself with the provision of superior standards of customer service, also following the trends set by competition in the Greek and international markets. This is reflected in the results of the customer satisfaction surveys, which are presented in this Report. New technologies, as well as older ones, can have a significant role in eliminating manual labour, thus optimizing secure exchange of information and consequently expediting the procedures that affect customer service. Additionally, they offer alternative means of customer service, which significantly expand the geographical customer service points (almost globally in the case of mobile phone banking) and the servicing hours. However, there is the risk of over-focusing on utilizing new technological trends and less on ensuring that as many customers as possible will benefit from less modern but more mature technology. At Piraeus Bank, the initial focus is on expanding accessibility to the technological innovations that have been adopted and then on expanding their range. For this to be achieved, the challenge is prompted by the customer, thereupon the suitable technology is sought to cover their specific needs. At the same time, this technology is applied in such a manner as to facilitate the customers’ transition to it (for example by focusing on simplicity, speed and security rather than complex operation) and is supported by the customer-centric channels service channels, which educate and guide customers throughout the process. In 2016 in particular, a great initiative was implemented, with the aim of transforming the branches. The program’s key function was to promote transactions through digital channels. The program has been set up as a bank-wide initiative, led by retail and coordinated by a dedicated transformation office. It includes a range of specific projects with owners, project managers and project charters. Achievement of the transaction migration targets, results also in better customer service (e-payments are cheaper and significantly simpler/more convenient than a visit to a branch), while contribute in prevention of queues at the end of each month occurring at some branches and adversely affecting customers’ experience. For this purpose, a two-fold approach has been adopted: a) migration of transactions at ATMs and other systems (including Automated Payment Systems and Passbook Printers) and b) migration of transactions to electronic channels (internet and mobile phones). In order to achieve the former, (a), inward facing ATMs which accept online deposits have been installed. These ATMs have been installed at all large cities in Greece. Moreover, a specialized employee (meter-greeter) has been assigned with customer reception at each branch, guiding customers to the appropriate machine according to their deposit or withdrawal needs and educating them on its' use. In this framework, a completely new concept for the Greek market, that of the ebranch, has been introduced. It is a branch designed to create a familiar and friendly atmosphere while also providing high tech systems. A key element of the e-branch is the presence of the Remote Cashier , who is supported by specialized employees that guide and educate the customers. The level of usage of the e-branch, especially by elderly customers, is very encouraging. In relation to the latter, (b), the e-platforms have been redesigned to become more user-friendly in combination with a simple registration process into the system, which takes place at branches together with training of the customers. The project’s progress is monitored by systematic quantitative measurements that record the rate of transactions made at cashiers versus those though digital channels. Consequently, measurements are made and targets are set at branch level in order to monitor the total rate of migration for all transactions that can be changed to digital channels. Additionally, this rate is also analyzed for individual types of transactions. For 2016, this rate reached 67% versus 64% in 2015 and 53% in 2014, while the target set for 2017 is 78%. Respectively, targets have been set for new registrations in e-banking services. In 2016, 250,000 new registrations were recorded, with the target for 2017 to be set at a significantly higher level. Corporate Communication and Promotion In 2016, Piraeus Bank Group’s corporate identity continued its uniform application at all customer contact points, thus providing a uniform image of the Bank to society. The slogan that accompanied the Bank’s brand name in all its communication throughout the year was Piraeus Bank, the first Bank in Greece , reflecting its leading position in the Greek market. The Group’s Marketing & Communication Unit supported all aspects of operation of the Bank and Group subsidiaries by means of small, medium and large-scale advertising actions as well as targeted promotional actions on a local level and at particular customer segments. 66 Sustainable Development Report In 2016, particular emphasis was placed on promoting innovative products and services, with the aim of addressing the challenges and difficulties arising from the amplification of the humanitarian crisis and the continued imposition of strict limitations in transactions. 2016 Advertising Campaigns On a communication and promotional level, the Group’s Marketing & Communication Unit designed and implemented advertising actions with targeted promotional actions of new products such as the Reward Program as well as new, innovative e-banking products and services. More specifically: • Launching of yellow , the new Reward Program by Piraeus Bank • Promotion of new e-banking services with modern communication that focuses on easy use of services that facilitate users’ daily life: • winbank-one touch login advertising campaign • wallet app advertising campaign • e-branch advertising campaign Moreover, a series of advertising campaigns were developed in relation to Piraeus Bank’s new products and services, which were planned actions. In particular: • Miles and More advertising campaign • AB Vassilopoulos advertising campaign • Do It Yourself Time Deposit advertising campaign • Green Banking advertising campaign Special Advertising Actions In order to promote and develop the agricultural sector, the Group’s Marketing & Communication unit undertook the following actions: • Agro-carta advertising campaign • Contract Farming advertising campaign • advertising campaign about Integrated Banking Solutions for Farmers. The advertising campaigns regarding the agricultural sector, apart from their promotion at targeted audiences, also continued being promoted by means of the Weather forecast for farmers on a TV channel and the EPI GIS magazine. More specifically: •  Weather forecast for farmers , ANT1 TV channel. The development and broadcast of a daily weather forecast for farmers on ANT 1, of 4-minute duration, which aims to create daily contact of the Bank with farmers. It is the first time that an advertiser assumes the creation of a daily current affairs program on a large TV station for specialized viewers, who utilize it as a daily tool for their work. The program has opening and closing credits with 10’’ branding of the Bank and depicts a clock, communicating the Contract Farming program. All the programs are filed on a special branded minisite on ant1.gr. • Periodical publication of EPI GIS magazine. The EPI GIS magazine is a periodical publication created in 2014 by Piraeus Bank Group on issues of agricultural economy & Sustainable Development Report 67 entrepreneurship and is available free of charge at the branch network. It aims to become a tool that will aid information provision to farmers and to their investment activities while also building a relationship of trust and synergy with the sector. Awards and Distinctions 2016 Piraeus Bank Group received numerous awards and distinctions for its marketing, communication and PR actions: Awards and Distinctions Organization Award Cyta Mobile Excellence Awards 2016 Gold Award in the category Mobile Sales/Promotions Services Applications promotional activity Check in Class Business IT Excellence Awards 2016 Silver Award in the category Special Apps for Companies in Sectors/Services for the winbank Private Banking App European Design Awards 2017 Silver Award for the 2015 Piraeus Bank Group Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report Ermis Awards 2016 Gold and Grand Award in the category 2015 Piraeus Bank Group Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report , Silver Award in the category Packaging/Limited Editions for Piraeus Bank’s filing system, Bronze Award in the category Ad/Campaigns for Piraeus Bank Βudget Stories pre-paid cards Bronze Award in the category Digital/Online Film for Budget Stories EVGE 2016 EVGE Award in the general category for the 2015 Piraeus Bank Group Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report Social Media Awards 2016 Bronze Award in the category Innovation in Social Media for Piraeus Bank’s Budget Stories , Bronze Award for Best YouTube Advertising Campaign for Piraeus Bank’s The World Awaits You Branch Marketing Management (ΒΜΜ) Following the restructuring of the branch network, the need arose for dynamic management of the means of communication and promotion of the Bank’s products and services. The Branch Marketing Management BMM application was developed as an interactive communication channel and as a means of feedback on promotional issues, contributing to the enhancement of the branches themselves as key means of communication. In order to reduce the Bank’s operating cost and its environmental footprint, a new functionality was developed for the BMM application with visitor rates, through which the minimum communication and promotional material required both at branch and seasonality levels is defined. This resulted in the following: • R  eduction of the Bank’s environmental footprint. Indicatively: the felling of 1,400 trees was prevented, the emission of 69 tons of CO2 was prevented, 57 tons of paper were not consumed and 3,000,000 liters of water were not wasted. • Minimization of employee time required for monitoring promotional issues. • More effective promotion of products. 68 Sustainable Development Report Actions on a Local Level and Special Customer Segments By utilizing the Wellbeing indices data from regions and prefectures in Greece, in 2016, the Group’s Marketing & Communication unit supported branch actions aimed at attracting new customers, developing existing partnerships and providing communication support on issues of information in the framework of the branch network operational integration. For a second consecutive year, particular emphasis was placed on tertiary education students (Universities and Technological Educational Institutes) as a customer segment of special commercial interest. In order to promote and communicate the products and services which cover these students’ needs, a promotional action was developed utilizing the special Check In Class application, which commenced in 2105 at 13 Universities and Technological Educational Institutes and continued in 2016 at 45 institutions in Greece. The action supported the Bank’s targets for retail banking products and the specialized branch network needs as it strengthened the Bank’s image in all cities with strong student presence. A particularly significant element is the fact that Check In Class was presented at faculties and departments that are involved in Marketing and Communication with the use of new technologies as well as the fact that students of the respective institutions also participated in the application's promotion. In this action, 66,312 students participated, with 278 branches receiving 16,731 visits. Modernization of Communication of Group Subsidiaries Consistent with market trends and aiming to serve its existing and potential customers in the best possible way, Piraeus Bank updated its subsidiaries’ websites. More specifically, look & feel changes in the electronic work environment resulted in making them much more user-friendly and with applications that are easy to use, speedier, simpler and offering a pleasant website navigation. The aforementioned Subsidiary Company websites are the following: • Piraeus Factoring S.A. • Piraeus Leasing S.A. • Piraeus Securities S.A. • PJ Catalyst Tech • Piraeus Asset Management Mutual Funds S.A. • ETVA Industrial Parks SA • winbank Private Βanking Distinctions for Piraeus Bank Group Subsidiaries The Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi SA received the distinction EFQM Recognized for Excellence in Europe-3 stars as well as the Bronze Award for its training program Digital Marketing in Hospitality in the category Education programs and specialization/Connecting education & labor market in the Tourism Awards 2016. AVIS received distinctions in the ICAP Group’s True Leaders 2015 Awards: the Gold Award in the category Excellence in Employee Work-life Balance for the Avis Benefit for you loyalty program as well as the Bronze Award in the category Most Innovative Use of Τechnology in HR , for i-Avis (intranet). Humanitarian Actions In the framework of the sustainable development practices that Piraeus Bank Group has adopted, it supported the work of the NGO Apostoli of the Holy Archdiocese of Athens. For this purpose, the Bank, jointly with its insurance partner ΝΝ Hellas, deposit €5 in the bank account of Apostoli for every SmartPlan junior insurance plan of ΝΝ Hellas, which is offered by the Bank’s Network. Participation in exhibitions, conferences, events In 2016 as well, the Group’s Marketing & Communication unit coordinated the design and arrangement of the Group’s presence in General Meetings, meetings with specific themes, conferences, exhibitions, cultural and communication events as well as in special informational and promotional actions, in accordance with the Group’s corporate identity and communication strategy, both for the Bank and its Greek subsidiaries. Indicatively: the 27th Annual Conference The Sustainable Development Report 69 Greek Economy , the Agrotica Exhibition for Farming and Animal Breeding, the Super Market, Mini Market and Kiosk Expo for small and organized retail sales points, the 3d Panhellenic Congress on the Development of Greek Agriculture by Gaia Epicheirein, 5th e-Business & Social Media World conference, the Social media in Tourism Conference and the e-Tail Operations & Delivery Conference . Continuous Improvement of Customer Satisfaction Piraeus Bank systematically conducts the Customer Satisfaction Survey annually. Through this process the Bank gathers information about the overall level of customer satisfaction and in particular customer-perception indices. Piraeus Bank’s constant aim is to maintain its high degree of customer satisfaction. The survey for 2016 was conducted in the form of Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing – (CATI) by means of a structured, 12-minute questionnaire by the market research company TNS, on a sample of 15,300 Piraeus Bank customers covering the Greek geographic area. Regarding the overall customer experience of Piraeus Bank, the results are positive as 67% of the interviewed customers assessed their overall experience with the Bank as excellent/very good and 27% as good , 5% as moderate while only 1% as being poor . It is noteworthy that the survey showed that 9 out of 10 customers prefer Piraeus Bank strongly to very strongly in comparison to any other bank. Focusing on satisfaction regarding the servicing experience at the customers’ main branch of service with individual indicators, staff politeness and staff expertise scored the highest. In terms of providing complete and clear information from –a measurement of transparency– 72% of customers grade it as excellent/very good whereas only 1% of total customers interviewed perceive their experience as poor . Regarding web banking, it is evaluated as excellent/very good by 88% of users. The 2016 survey indicated that all satisfaction indices at the customers’ main branch of service note a statistically significant increase versus 2015, proof of the Bank’s focus on effective customer service. It should be pointed out that when the survey was conducted, customers were asked to identify areas of improvement in the standard of service provided by the Bank. This information was taken under serious consideration and is being utilized in the implementation of the respective corrective actions (percentages have been rounded to the nearest integer). 70 Sustainable Development Report Piraeus Bank’s Overall Experience Rating 2014 2015 2016 N/A 1% N/A 0,2% N/A 0,2% Poor 1% Poor 1% Poor 2% Moderate 5% Moderate 5% Moderate 7% Good 30% Good 27% Good 33% Total Excellent + Very Good 67% Total Excellent + Very Good 63% Very Good 44% Total Excellent + Very Good 58% Very Good 43% Very Good 41% Excellent 23% Excellent 20% Excellent 17% Question: Considering your total experience of Piraeus Bank, how would you rate it overall? BASE: All respondents (ν = 15,300 / year) Degree of Preference of Piraeus Bank over Any Other Bank 2014 2015 2016 N/A 2% N/A 2% N/A 2% Not Preferred 3% Not Preferred 3% Not Preferred 3% Moderately 13% Moderately 11% Moderately 9% Strongly 44% Strongly 46% Strongly 47% Total Extremely Strongly Total + Very Strongly 42% Extremely Strongly Total + Very Strongly 39% Very Strongly 27% Extremely Strongly + Very Strongly 34% Very Strongly 24% Very Strongly 22% Extremely Strongly 16% Extremely Strongly 14% Extremely Strongly 12% Question: To what degree do you prefer Piraeus Bank over any other bank? BASE: All respondents (ν = 15,300 / year) Assessment of Service at Branch: Politeness of staff 2014 2015 2016 Poor 0,2% Poor 0,2% Poor 0,2% Moderate 2% Moderate 2% Moderate 2% Good 15% Good 14% Good 14% Total Excellent Total Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 83% + Very Good 84% + Very Good 82% Very Good 36% Very Good 37% Very Good 36% Excellent 48% Excellent 46% Excellent 48% BASE: Those who mentioned they had a primary branch ( ν2014 = 15,273, ν2015 = 15,293, ν2016 = 15,290) Assessment of Service at Branch: Knowledge of staff 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Poor 2% Poor 2% Moderate 3% Good 21% Good 18% Good 22% Total Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 79% Total Excellent + Very Good 76% Very Good 41% + Very Good 74% Very Good 39% Very Good 39% Excellent 39% Excellent 37% Excellent 35% BASE: Those who mentioned they had a primary branch ( ν2014 = 15,273, ν2015 = 15,293, ν2016 = 15,290) Assessment of Service at Branch: Providing Complete & Accurate Information 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Poor 1% Poor 1% Moderate 5% Moderate 4% Moderate 3% Good 23% Good 26% Good 27% Total Excellent + Very Good 72% Total Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 69% Very Good 39% + Very Good 67% Very Good 37% Very Good 38% Excellent 33% Excellent 32% Excellent 29% BASE: Those who mentioned they had a primary branch ( ν2014 = 15,273, ν2015 = 15,293, ν2016 = 15,290) Assessment of Service at Branch: Abiding by Promise 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Poor 1% Poor 1% Moderate 4% Moderate 3% Moderate 3% Good 26% Good 23% Good 28% Total Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 73% + Very Good 70% Total Excellent Very Good 39% + Very Good 67% Very Good 37% Very Good 38% Excellent 34% Excellent 33% Excellent 30% BASE: Those who mentioned they had a primary branch ( ν2014 = 15,273, ν2015 = 15,293, ν2016 = 15,290) Assessment of Service at Branch: Speed of Service 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Poor 1% Poor 2% Moderate 6% Moderate 5% Moderate 8% Good 21% Good 24% Good 25% Total Excellent + Very Good 73% Total Excellent + Very Good 69% Very Good 41% Total Excellent + Very Good 66% Very Good 39% Very Good 39% Excellent 32% Excellent 30% Excellent 27% BASE: Those who mentioned they had a primary branch ( ν2014 = 15,273, ν2015 = 15,293, ν2016 = 15,290) Assessment of Service at Branch: Resolution of Problems 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Poor 2% Poor 2% Moderate 4% Moderate 5% Moderate 5% Good 23% Good 27% Good 26% Total Excellent + Very Good 72% Total Excellent Total Excellent Very Good 39% + Very Good 68% + Very Good 65% Very Good 36% Very Good 38% Excellent 33% Excellent 32% Excellent 28% BASE: Those who mentioned they had a primary branch ( ν2014 = 15,273, ν2015 = 15,293, ν2016 = 15,290) Assessment of ATMs: Good Operation 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Poor 1% Poor 1% Moderate 6% Moderate 5% Moderate 4% Good 18% Good 19% Good 21% Total Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 77% + Very Good 75% Total Excellent Very Good 40% + Very Good 72% Very Good 39% Very Good 40% Excellent 38% Excellent 37% Excellent 32% BASE: Those who had used an ATM in the last 6 months ( ν2014 = 9,120, ν2015 = 9,775, ν2016 = 11,473) Assessment of ATMs: Cash availability 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Poor 1% Moderate 4% Moderate 4% Moderate 4% Good 18% Good 20% Good 20% Total Excellent + Very Good 78% Total Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 75% + Very Good 76% Very Good 36% Very Good 38% Very Good 37% Excellent 41% Excellent 39% Excellent 37% BASE: Those who had used an ATM in the last 6 months ( ν2014 = 9,120, ν2015 = 9,775, ν2016 = 11,473) Assessment of Web Banking 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Moderate 2% Moderate 2% Moderate 3% Καλή 10% Καλή 10% Καλή 13% Total Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 88% + Very Good 88% Total Excellent Very Good 39% Very Good 41% + Very Good 83% Very Good 42% Excellent 48% Excellent 47% Excellent 42% BASE: Those who had used Web Banking in the last 6 months (web banking ν2014 = 2,380, ν2015 = 3,019, ν2016 = 4,315) Assessment of Mobile Banking App 2014 2015 2016 Poor 1% Moderate 3% Moderate 4% Moderate 3% Καλή 18% Καλή 15% Καλή 11% Total Excellent + Very Good 86% Total Excellent Very Good 42% + Very Good 81% Total Excellent + Very Good 79% Very Good 39% Very Good 41% Excellent 44% Excellent 42% Excellent 38% BASE: Those who had used a mobile app in the last 6 months (mobile app ν2014 = 427, ν2015 = 558, ν2016 = 961 ) Support of Local Communities Piraeus Bank invests in the local communities where it is active by focusing on utilizing local conditions through each area's Commercial Plan, aiming to promote agricultural activity and provide specialized training programs. In order to penetrate and develop in the local markets where it operates, the Bank establishes a Commercial Plan for each area, periphery and branch. To ensure utilization of the local conditions and the Bank’s response to the individual market's needs, the Commercial Plan includes specific actions, sets measurable objectives and is systematically monitored. The Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi, a member of the Piraeus Bank Group, offers specialized and certified training programs to the periphery. Its basic pillar of action is supporting sustainable entrepreneurship and emerging sectors of the economy. These programs have already been realized in Thessaloniki, Chalkididki, Kavala, Katerini, Serres, Sparti, Irakleio and Lasithi and are specially adapted and designed for the needs and activities of the individual areas where they are offered. The subjects cover different topics and sectors accordingly – they include agriculture, tourism and e-entrepreneurship. Participants are encouraged to develop a different outlook on their businesses, focusing on issues of strategy and business planning as necessary tools for sustainable business, on creating branded agricultural products and on Digital Marketing and e-Commerce. In addition to providing financing and specialized training, Piraeus Bank also offers multi-level support to farmers through the 30 Agricultural Entrepreneurship Centers which operate in areas with significant agricultural activity. The Bank’s modern approach to providing comprehensive support to farmers and the agricultural economy is implemented through the Agricultural Entrepreneurship Centers, which can offer complete and spherical information regarding the specialized banking products that cover the financial needs of producers. Customer Information – Personal Data Management In the framework of transparency in the Bank’s operation and aiming for precise, equal, timely, reliable and accessibleto-all information provision, the Bank provides analytical information to individuals and institutional investors on issues of interest to them through the Bank’s official website (www.piraeusbank.gr) as well as through the website of the Bank of Greece, as it is required to do so in the framework of the supervision the latter exercises over the Banks and in compliance with the Governor’s Act 2501/2002 of the Bank of Greece, regarding the transparency of Banking transactions. Additionally, the Bank updates the data provided (e.g. the Bank’s Purchase Invoice, product details, General Terms for Transactions, information regarding the applicable Act of Legislative Content etc) while also offering direct communication with its customers by phone, post, fax as well as by the Contact Form and the Complaint Submission Form. Adhering to the principles of transparency and confidentiality, the Bank abides by the Code of Banking Ethics, which governs the relationship between banks and their customers, in relation to customer data collection and storage, confidentiality and professional secrecy; namely, all the necessary measures are taken to ensure confidentiality and protection of data regarding customers and anyone making transactions as well as use of this data exclusively for the purpose it was provided. The Bank places the utmost importance on compliance with current legislation regarding the protection of individuals from the processing of personal data. In accordance with Law 2472/1997 on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data, any data provided to the Bank is securely stored for the time imposed by the relevant legislation and is used exclusively for the purpose of its collection. Customer Complaints Service Piraeus Bank aims towards a modern and responsible handling of all banking needs and focuses on providing responsible and transparent customer service. Pursuing the strengthening of the relationship of trust with its customers, the Bank places particular emphasis on management of complaints/grievances, through which it detects areas of improvement in the products and services provided. Customers are given the possibility to seek resolution to their issue by following the complaint resolution mechanism, as it is defined by the institution of the Ombudsman for Banking Investment Services. More specifically, the customer is referred to the Branch/Service Unit to resolve the issue as soon as possible. If the customer’s complaint is not resolved in the 1st level of management, they are referred to the Customer Complaint Service (CCS), which deals with the management, resolution of and written response to the complaint. In the case where the customer is not satisfied with the response of the CSS, they are informed that they may address the Ombudsman for Banking, as an Alternative Dispute Resolution entity (ADR entity). Fully compliant with the Governor’s Act 2501/2002 of the Bank of Greece, the CCS’s main task is to provide consensual and extra-judicial resolution of disputes arising from failure to meet customers’ expectations in relation to the products and services provided. The CCS investigates the cases, which derive directly from the Bank’s customers or from Sustainable Development Report 83 Institutional Agencies/Supervisory Authorities, in collaboration with the relevant Units with objectivity, impartiality and within the time limit as set by the institutional framework. In addition, the CCS is in constant contact with the Agencies of alternative dispute resolution (the Hellenic Ombudsman for Banking-Investment Services-H.O.B.I.S., the Hellenic Consumers' Ombudsman, the General Secretariat for Consumers etc) aiming for more effective handling of issues. At the same time, in the framework of the Code of Conduct under L.4224/2013, the CCS receives the appeals submitted by loan-holders in cases where they have been characterized as Non-cooperating , it coordinates the actions to examine the circumstances of the characterization, makes the recommendation to the Appeals Committee and finally informs the customer by means of a written response with the final decision. For Piraeus Bank, any complaint or recommendation constitutes an incentive and an opportunity for improvement. Management of complaints by means of a regulatory and legislative framework also constitutes a permanent mechanism for improvement. By assessing these cases, any possible areas of improvement in the Bank’s processes for its products and services can be detected and corrective actions can be undertaken. The CCS is in constant contact with the relevant Units and Group Legal to allow for adjustment of the procedures to the constantly changing conditions and for effective management of complaints. The product and services units are continuously informed about the cases and issues related these units through their involvement in investigating and resolving the complaint as well as through the quantitative and qualitative data they receive on a 6-month and annual basis. As a result of the emphasis the Bank places on the two way communication with its customers and on enhancing its procedures, in 2016 an e-complaint form was designed and implemented, giving customers the possibility to directly and easily communicate any issue that has arisen in relation to products/services or sustainable development. Statistical Data According to the last Annual Report, an increase was noted in the number of filed complaints in 2016 versus 2015, mainly due to the intense activity of Consumer and other Organizations and the Influence they exert on customers. Of total cases filed in 2016, 26% of cases relate to standard customer letters, deriving either from the aforementioned Organizations or directly from customers, while total complaints/grievances in 2016 numbered 5,626. The largest rate of complaints was held by new cases, while only 9.5% related to issues already handled by CCS and customers chose to re-evaluate their case with a new letter or through an Organization. It should be noted that of total filed cases, 5,129 (91.2%) were handled within the pre-defined time-frame. In conclusion, in relation to the outcome of the cases, of the 5,379 which were finalized in 2016, 87% (4,680) were ruled in favour of the Bank and 12.1% (653 cases) in favour of the Customer. 84 Sustainable Development Report Origin of Filed Cases* 12m 2016 % Δ% 12m 2015 % Directly by Customer 3,658 65.0% 37% 2,663 75.0% Consumer Organizations/ Other Organizations 1,084 19.3% 553% 166 4.7% Ministry of Finance, General Secretariat of Commerce and Consumer Protection 281 5.0% 144% 115 3.2% Ombudsman for Banking Investment Services 237 4.2% -40% 394 11.1% Consumer’s Ombudsman 171 3.0% 22% 140 3.9% Customer Addressed Complaint to Multiple Recipients 166 3.0% 213% 53 1.5% Other 29 <1% 61% 18 <1% Total 5,626 100% 59% 3,549 100% Status of filed complaints 12m 2016 % Δ% 12m 2015 % Filing of new complaint 5,065 90.0% 65% 3,073 86.6% Reply from previous request 439 7.8% 11% 394 11.1% Reply through Organization 97 1.7% 29% 75 2.1% Reconciliation proposal 24 <1.0% 500% 4 Reply by phone 1 <1.0% 0 Intervention of the Ombudsman for Banking and Investment Services (HOBIS) 0 <1.0% 100% 3 0.1% Total 5,626 100% 59% 3,549 100% Days 12m 2016 % Δ% 12m 2015 % From 0 to 4 2007 35.7% 120% 914 25.8% From 5 to 14 1606 28.5% 32% 1,213 34.2% From 15 to 44 1516 27.0% 24% 1,228 34.6% From 45 and over 250 4.4% 283% 65 1.8% In progress** 247 4.4% 91% 129 3.6% Total 5,626 100% 59% 3,549 100% * A complaint may derive from different sources; nevertheless, it is considered as one complaint. ** Data based on database created on 04/01/2017, from which Appeals have been excluded, in the framework of the Code of Conduct under L.4224/2013. Supplier Relationship Piraeus Bank evaluates collaboration proposals and financial offers submitted by potential business partners and suppliers on the basis of specific, objective and measurable criteria, such as the quality to price ratio, reliability and financial viability. There are uniform procedures which apply to all suppliers. Partnerships with all existing suppliers and business partners are regularly assessed and revised so as to maintain effective collaborations and high-quality services. At the same time, the Bank ensures the timely payment of its obligations towards suppliers and partners. In an effort to ensure smooth and transparent supply management, for both products and services of the Group, the Group Procurement Regulation has been adopted, which defines relations with existing and potential suppliers. This regulation contains the rules and basic principles on all products and services supplied as well as describing the manner in which supply requests of all Group organizational units are handled to cover their operational needs. The Group Procurement Regulation is governed by the rules and principles as they are described in the section Sustainable Development Report 85 Outsourcing of Piraeus Bank Group Regulatory Compliance Policy , pursuant to Governor’s Act 2577/2006 of the Bank of Greece. This Regulation is uniformly applied to the entire Group (Piraeus Bank and subsidiaries both in Greece and abroad). Its key targets are: • T he formation of a regulatory framework through which transparent, clear and uniform procurement management procedures take place throughout the Group. • Transparent and objective evaluation of submitted offers for all procurement tenders for goods or services. • Definition of quantitative and qualitative specifications for all products and services supplied. • Mitigation of operational and credit risks which might arise from partnership with suppliers. • Timely supply of products and services to the Group’s Organizational Units. • Restraining the cost of supplying products and services, by using e-auctions. • Formation of long-term collaborations with suppliers who are evaluated on a regular basis. • Establishment of a uniform contractual framework and its enforcement on prospective suppliers and external partners. • Management of conventional contractual frameworks through specialized applications in order to allow for direct information on the financial data related to the Bank’s partnership with each supplier and to provide timely information on upcoming contract renewals. • Definition of a cooperation framework between the organizational units involved in the supply management. • In its efforts to support local economies and communities and to reduce transportation of goods thus limiting its environmental footprint, the Bank ensures that almost 100% its procurements are made by local suppliers with the exception of furniture, cashier counters and signs, for which the group has signed a global contract in order to maintain a uniform corporate identity. A central supplier list is maintained by the Piraeus Bank Group Technical Projects & Administration Support unit and is revised annually and approved by the Group’s Expenses Committee. Indicatively, in 2016, the Piraeus Bank Group Technical Projects & Administration Support unit supplier list reached 2,849 suppliers, of which 2,620 had a budget of under €26,000 (excl. VAT), with the remainder 229 over €26,000. Additionally, regarding the Group Technology unit, it should be noted that on 31.12.2016 active contracts numbered 1,657, of which 528 were formed in 2016. At the same time, the total number of technology suppliers numbered 815, of which 745 are based in Greece. 86 Sustainable Development Report Piraeus Bank has been applying green criteria to its overall procurement policy since 2005. Its collaboration with companies which supply recycled chlorine-free paper for its operating needs remains uninterrupted. In 2016, the Bank continued its partnerships with companies which supply paper with strict FSC3 environmental standards certification, to be used in printed promotional and communication material, thus increasing demand for this type of paper in the market. Environmentally-certified detergents with the EU environmental certification Eco-Label were procured and used at 6 buildings. Through the above, conditions are gradually being created for suppliers in the market to take environmental criteria as well into account when selecting their products. In 2016, the Bank for the first time organized a focus group discussion consisting of partner suppliers in order to enhance the process of defining and classifying the materiality aspects. The discussion was coordinated by an external Bank partner with the presence of representatives from ERNST & YOUNG HELLAS, thus ensuring alignment with the principles of the 2015 AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard as well as the validity of the procedure. This open dialogue highlighted the sustainable development practices which are ranked as the most significant by the partner suppliers – this ranking is defined by the type of relationship they have with the Bank. The Group aims to organize similar meetings with focus groups annually and to expand the sample of stakeholders to participate in these in order to utilize the results in enhancing the sustainable development practices it implements. 3 FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), The Forest Stewardship Council mission is to promote environmentally sound, socially beneficial and economically prosperous management of the world’s forests. Sustainable Development Report 87 Human Resources Piraeus Bank Group acknowledging the basic role held by human resources in the achievement of its corporate strategic goals and the management of challenges, invests in the creation of strong relations with its employees, the constant improvement of the working environment and the minimisation of risks. Securing the jobs of the employees, providing full time employment contracts, promoting the constant growth of its people as well as having staffing procedures without discrimination to cover business needs, mainly through internal reallocation of the existing human resources, all constitute key points of the philosophy of the Group. Special emphasis is placed on the reinforcement and strengthening of the human resources with innovative programs for training, development and support, so that their growth is secured along with their competitive advantage. At the same time, the Group makes sure to establish and implement human resources policies that promote issues of ethics, trust, devotion, team spirit and acceptance of diversity in the workplace while it reinforces the commitment of its employees so that they operate according to its Values and its Vision. In 2016 the Human Resources & Organisational Learning continued to invest in the shaping of a uniform corporate culture, the consolidation of the Values model, the development and training of human resources, new technologies and means of two-way and open communication with employees, as well as in the balanced and with transparent procedures utilisation and allocation of its people within the Organisation. Sustainable Development Report 93 2016 Actions • R ationalisation of the Branch Network in Greece and appropriate utilisation of the employees in Administration Units or in Branches, according to business needs. • Reinforcement of the Restructuring Business Units with more staff with the goal of more effective management of non-performing loans. • Integration of 29 employees of the Cooperative Bank of Peloponnese. • Ensuring an average of 48 hours of training per employee at Bank level. • Design of the Credit & Risk Academy, as well as creation of 4 more Schools and 2 Academies for the complete strengthening of executives who perform specialised roles. • Design and implementation of training programs and actions for the strengthening of human resources on specialised topics and technical knowledge as well as for the development of leadership and managerial capabilities of employees. • Development of 74 executives of high performance and abilities in the new leadership model through the specialised program of the Development Centres. • Design and implementation of an internal action that promotes real examples of the ways that the employees experience the Values of the Group in their work. • Development of a diffusion knowledge culture and good practices, with the utilisation of alternative training forms. • Shaping a framework for the management of Professional Development of the employees in the Bank. • Sensitisation of 2,798 employees and their families at Bank level, with the implementation of 71 actions of social, cultural and environmental content. • Implementation of 118 voluntary actions with 12,514 participations of the Group’s employees and their families and expansion of actions that reinforce young entrepreneurship. • Availability of Employee Support Programs to all Human Resources of the Bank and to 6 subsidiary companies of the Group in Greece. • Completion of the design of a statistical analysis tool for the results of the annual assessment. • Broadening of the Human Resources Management System, database improvement of existing approval flows and integration of new functions. 94 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Goals • C  ontinuous strengthening and reinforcing of the Restructuring Business Units with human resources and with the development of a specialised Academy for credit policy issues along with other targeted training programs. • Staffing the Branch Network according to the new Organisational Structure, and training the appropriate executives on business issues and consulting skills. • Design and implementation of an Employee Engagement Survey in the Bank and the greek Subsidiaries, as well as communication of the results to every Unit for the formulation of ameliorative action plans. • Optimal utilisation of the Bank’s executives through the implementation and planning of targeted actions that support talent development strategy. • Initiation of the systemic procedure of planning and monitoring the Personal Development Plan in the Human Resources Information System. • Development of a Code of Ethics (Business Ethics Framework), connected to the Values Model of the Group. • Strengthening of managerial and leadership skills of the Group’s executives, with emphasis on middle management, aiming at the consolidation and uniform implementation of the leadership values model of the Bank. • Continued implementation of Schools and Academies and creation of new training and development actions with emphasis on the preservation of corporate knowledge, the reinforcement and preservation of talents within the organisation as well as the strengthening and reinforcement of the employees' resilience. • Development and use of innovative tools for corporate knowledge diffusion, as well as of flexible methods and training means with the goal of ensuring the provision of the knowledge needed by each employee at his/her role (adaptive learning). • Design and integration of technology at the operations of Human Resources (Digital HR) based on strategic targeting. • Introduction of the Lead 360° evaluation system in the subsidiary companies in Greece, as well as design of a tool for the statistical analysis of results of the Lead 360° assessment and its integration in the electronic platform. • Overview and redefinition of the Performance Management procedure. • Assignment to all Human Resources of the greek and foreign subsidiaries of the revised e-learning for safeguarding of Human Rights and Equal Opportunities at workplace. • Realisation of volunteer actions with more than 10,000 participations of volunteers from the Group as well as new actions that promote support of the new generation. • Continuation of learning in matters of Corporate Social Responsibility and their integration in the business objectives of the Bank for the management of environmental and social risk. • Implementation of a unified program of life insurance, permanent disability and healthcare. • Utilisation of digital technology as a multifaceted tool in the procedures of staffing, development and self-service of employees, targeting at a more direct response to the needs of Units, the proper utilisation and further cultivation of people’s skills. Sustainable Development Report 95 Number of People Working at Piraeus Bank Group At the end of 2016, the distribution of employees (headcount4) in the Group was: Men Women Total Piraeus Bank SA 5,609 7,584 13,193 Piraeus Group Greece (Bank & Subsidiaries) 6,230 8,271 14,501 Subsidiaries abroad 1,018 2,574 3,592 Piraeus Group Total for continuing operations 7,248 10,845 18,093 The average age of the Group’s employees is 41 years, while the 89% of the employees is below 50 years old. The age distribution of the human resources of the Group facilitates the introduction and implementation of changes to technological infrastructure, procedures and target-setting. Age Distribution (%) Bank Group <30 1% 5% 30-50 88% 84% >50 11% 11% The percentage of employees who are holders of university degrees or/and postgraduate titles reaches 71% in Greece and 77% in the subsidiaries abroad. For the organisational structure of the Group and analytical presentation of specific operations, see www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Chart of Organisational Structure Distribution Based on Employment Type and Contract 100% of Piraeus Bank’s employees receive as a minimum, compensation and benefits as these were specified in the collective bargaining agreements, while at Group level the percentage is 82%. Piraeus Bank Total Men Women Full-time employment 13,191 5,608 7,583 Part-time employment 2 1 1 Group Total Men Women Full-time employment 18,050 7,231 10,819 Part-time employment 43 17 26 Geographical Distribution of Indefinite-Time Contract Employees Group Greece Subsidiaries Abroad Geographical Area Men Women Geographical Area Men Women Attica 3,665 4,844 Capital 752 1,621 Thessaloniki 703 767 Rest of Greece 1,847 2,653 Other areas 228 827 4 The collection of all HR data has been made through the HR System and with the completion of questionnaires for selected topics or companies, with common admissions for all companies of the Group. 96 Sustainable Development Report Geographical Distribution of Fixed-Term Contract Employees Group Greece Subsidiaries Abroad Geographical Area Men Women Geographical Area Men Women Attica 8 2 Capital 24 74 Thessaloniki 2 0 Rest of Greece 5 5 Other Areas 14 52 Services-Rendered Invoice Employees Seasonal Employees Piraeus Bank Group Piraeus Bank Group Men Women Men Women 95 95 80 62 Employee Voluntary Turnover Piraeus Bank Group, examining socially responsible options in parallel with securing the long term prosperity of the Organisation and its human resources, on March 2016, provided the opportunity to the employees of the Bank and the greek subsidiaries of the financial sector to participate in the Voluntary Exit Scheme. The scheme gave the choices of either an immediate exit or a long-term absence with full compensation for a two years period and exit at the end of that period. In total, from the Bank and the greek Financial Sector Subsidiaries, more than 1,200 people participated, with a 97% of the applicants opting for the Immediate Exit. The population that expressed interest to participate, with an average age of 46 years, was equally distributed through the Branch Network and the Administration Units of the Bank or the Subsidiaries. In the context of supporting the employees that participated, they and the members of their families were given the opportunity to use for one year the consulting guidance of Employee Assistance Programs (24hr Helpline provision and five Face to Face meetings with the cooperation of Hellas EAP). In parallel the provision of group healthcare continues for two years. The employees were also given the capability to utilise individual meetings and group training for alternative professional paths through ICAP PeopleSolutions. Finally, the voluntary turnover rate was shaped at 4% for the Group in 2016, while at Bank level the respective percentage was smaller than 1% (with the participation of men by 64% and women by 36%). Collective Representation There are six employee unions active in the context of Piraeus Bank, which represent almost the majority of the human resources. The one being most representative and having most members, is recognised as the competent body for bargaining with Management. The Group seeks to strengthen the dialogue with employees and their collective bodies, since through it, the continuous upgrade of their working environment is achieved. With this in mind, the Bank not only fully complies with the relative legislation and individual and business contracts, but also supports the scheduled meetings between Top Management and Union representatives, which take place at least once a month. During these meetings, among others, views and information are exchanged, in relation to work activities, including the developments that refer to important operational changes in the Group. See www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Human Resources>Collective Representation Social Policy Piraeus Bank Group makes sure to provide to its employees, compensation and benefits that ensure a satisfactory standard of living and motivate them to be productive. On 31st December 2016, the total payroll expenses reached €627.55 mn, allocated as follows: Sustainable Development Report 97 Staff Compensation (€ mn) Employee Compensations 467.84 Social Insurance Contributions 119.76 Other Expenses* 25.40 Voluntary Exit Scheme Expenses ** Retirement Benefits Expenses 14.55 * Other expenses include: medical care, employee insurance with death and/or permanent disability coverage (Insurance Scheme), preventive check-up for executives, nursery schools and employer contributions other than social security funds. ** 2015 had been burdened with €110 mn as an appraisal of Voluntary Exit Scheme costs. The fund Provisions due to Voluntary Exit Scheme that amounted to €98.9 mn refers to the compensations in the context of the voluntary exit scheme (Annual Financial Report 2016). For added benefits to employees see www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Human Resources>Remuneration & Benefits In the context of the unified operation of the new Group structure, a unified program for life insurance, permanent disability and healthcare is in progress for all employees. It is a continuous commitment of the Bank, to provide meaningful support to its people, offering products and services adapted to their needs. Given the continuously worsening economic situation in the country that burdens especially those who have considerable loans, new actions are constantly examined. In this context a special team was created in the Restructuring Business Unit of the Bank, which in coordination with HR, exclusively works for the creation of restructuring plans for the employees of the Group (either active or not) contributing to the improvement of their living standards and the improvement of the NPL ratio of the Bank. In addition in the context of alignment with the applicable credit policy of the Group, the way of evaluating the credit rating of the employees applying for loans with preferential terms has been revised according to what applies for customers. Finally, the transition procedure of the mortgage loans of the 1984 Collective Agreement on Working and Transactions (Greek Federation of Bank Employee Unions – OTOE) into the loan systems was completed, in order that their full management is being exercised exclusively by the Bank (3,526 loans, €103,643,807.81). These loans were provided with funds of ex ATE Bank to its employees (the management of which was exercised by the Building Cooperative of ATE Bank employees – OSYATE). In 2016 the sum of mortgages to Piraeus Bank employees –loans that comply with the terms and conditions of the 84’ sectoral collective employment agreement of OTOE– amounted to €1,348,998.00, while their balance at the end of the year reached €197,593,831.52. Promoting Equal Opportunities for Career Development The Group makes sure that the staffing needs that arise are covered by giving priority to the existing human resources. The year that passed, the integration of 29 employees of the Cooperative Bank of Peloponnese was completed. Guided by a meritocratic approach and with a high sense of responsibility, the covering of the operational needs of the Group was achieved with the placement of executives to positions that corresponded to their experience. The equal career opportunities policy applied by the Bank, the ensuring of transparency and the clear direction towards a more effective development of human resources, gave in 2016 the ability to 7% of employees to progress hierarchically. Finally and according to the systematic monitoring of women’s participation indices in positions of responsibility, women cover 32% of positions in senior management and 17% in top management. Selecting the Right People for the Right Roles The Group makes sure that staffing needs that arise, are covered by priority and to their greatest part from the existing employees. The respect of human value, the ethos and integrity of behaviour have a special weight for Piraeus Bank Group. This is reflected in the philosophy, management practices and the selection and recruitment process of the Human Resources. 98 Sustainable Development Report For the selection and evaluation of candidates unified tools are utilised that are differentiated according to the level of education and work experience of the candidate, while at the same time they safeguard his/her transparent and objective evaluation. These tools include job simulation exercises, aptitude tests, occupational personality questionnaires and personal interviews. In 2016 at Bank level, the need arose to cover 4,424 positions. 88% of them were covered (3,893 positions) and out of these the 99% were internal transfers, promotions and/or hiring within the Group while only 1% were covered by external hiring. Special emphasis was placed on the reinforcement of the Restructuring Business Units with additional employees (250 people) aiming at the more effective management of NPL’s. Sustainable Development Report 99 Piraeus Bank Promotions* Total 1,001 Women: 48% 480 Men: 52% 521 * Including employees on secondment in the Bank Internal Coverage of Staffing Needs* Total 3,847 Women: 61% 2,353 Men: 39% 1,494 * Including employees on secondment in the Bank External Coverage of Staffing Needs Total 46 Women: 39% 18 Men: 61% 28 Expatriates At the end of 2016, 18 executives were assigned to 6 countries in which the Group operates, 14 of which were from the Bank in Greece having on average a four-year assignment duration. More specifically, four new assignments started abroad, three of them were executives in managerial positions in Piraeus Bank Bulgaria and one assignee was placed in Frankfurt, Germany. Conversely, two executives repatriated in Piraeus Bank Greece, while 4 new assignments of Piraeus Bank Cyprus executives were integrated in the workforce in Greece for projects regarding International Activities. Through the practice of assigning executives to the subsidiaries abroad, where the Group is active, the coverage of specialised needs is pursued by the Group while offering at the same time the opportunity for development to highly skilled and competitive executives in the market. Specifically, with the assignment of executives abroad the aims are: • T he coverage of positions of responsibility by executives with sufficient knowledge and work experience. • The transfer of technical and professional knowledge, experience and best practices. • The development of the executive workforce of the subsidiaries abroad and their preparation for future succession. • The promotion of common culture, policies and procedures of the Group in the countries where it operates. • The acquisition of significant experience from the expatriates and their further strengthening through the management of complex situations, aiming at the transfer of their know-how and experience, as an added value to the Organisation with their repatriation. See www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Human Resources>Professional Development>Staffing Employee Development Performance Appraisal The performance appraisal procedure ensures continuous communication with employees and consistent guidance from their managers, while it creates the necessary framework for the recognition of individual contribution. In parallel, the employees have the opportunity to firstly make a self-assessment and then participate in the review of their evaluation so that they can openly express their opinion before the finalisation of the procedure. The annual evaluation, with the standard criteria of the mentioned procedure, was implemented for the period 1.1.2015-31.12.2015. At Group level there were 14,889 appraisals completed out of a total of 16,037 (93%). Talent Development The talent development strategy moves along 3 axes: Retention – Utilisation – Loyalty The Bank makes sure through a combination of actions to develop and utilise to the highest degree the capabilities of its employees, in order that they contribute in the best possible way, they are devoted to their work and in parallel they are proud to work for the Bank. The ability of the organisation to have highly capable and highly specialised employees is an element of sustainability and success. The ability of management to know the capabilities of its human resources helps in the preparation of succession plans and strengthens the organisational readiness of the Bank to respond to every change. Sustainable Development Report 103 Performance Appraisals 2015* Total 16,037 12,365 Incomplete appraisals 1,148 Incomplete appraisals 766 Completed appraisals 11,599 Completed appraisals 14,889 Piraeus Bank Group Bank (employees under borrowed – employee agreements) * The performance appraisals were carried out in 2016 Performance Appraisals 2015 Total 822 2,850 Incomplete appraisals 92 Incomplete appraisals 290 Completed appraisals 2,560 Completed appraisals 730 Greek Subsidiaries International Subsidiaries Days of Development of Middle Management Executives In 2016 the in-house development centres in the Bank began with a team-goal of 74 middle level management executives. The days development centers are designed based on the leadership model of the Group and aim at the development of skills and the setting of priorities that reinforce corporate culture and values through the personal strengthening of the executive, who is assigned to exercise a supervisory role. In house development centres are implemented according to the standards of the British Psychological Society (BPS) from a specially certified team, which is guided annually with job shadowing from special consultants. Development of Top Management Executives The 360° feedback evaluation was designed and implemented for the Executive Management. The upward evaluation gathers appraisals under the spectrum of 4 different sources: those directly supervised, the regular collaborators from other Units, the head of the Unit but also the participant himself/herself. The participant is benefited from the analysis of the convergence-divergence of opinions from individual sources as well as from the comparison of the results with the international senior executive norms, understanding his/her leadership style in an international environment. Commitment to the Values of the Group Presentation of the Talent Development Strategy to 16 senior and top management executives, through team meetings, aiming at the development of corporate dialogues both for the achievement of a common approach and alignment of the leadership practices and for the constant development of human resources, in a way that reinforces the competitive advantage of the Bank regarding quality, abilities and skills of the employees in the Group. Automatisation of Development Plan: Strengthening and Guidance Design of parameters for systemic application and automatisation of the individual development plan model. The model guides the employee to set targets for personal and professional growth, to design an action plan for their achievement in cooperation with the Head of his/her Unit, receiving the benefit of life long strengthening of his/her skills and his/her professional advancement in the Group. The model 70:20:10 strengthens the workforce of the Bank, supporting the choice of development actions-which ensure the acquisition of new experiences, by 70% through work, by 20% through a structured guidance from the Head and finally by 10% from training programs. The methodology helps the employee shape his/her personal path to growth with the support, cooperation and guidance of the Head but also of the HR of the Group. Individual development plans have the goal to function in an ancillary way in the relations between employee-head, as a structured guidance tool. Development Library In 2016 there were 208 lending books requests satisfied, with more popular topics those of economics, project development, communication and effective presentation of ideas and leadership. The thematic, specialised in the development of skills, lending library was enriched with new books about strategy and leadership offering alternative choices of personal learning and strengthening. At the end of the year it had 44 new titles. Its thematic axes are exclusively related to the skills of the leadership model of the Bank: strategic direction and entrepreneurship, quality service, leadership, communication, human resources development, self-growth, negotiations, etc. Investing in Development and Continuous Training of Human Resources Piraeus Bank Group, responding to the challenges of the market and the demands of the governing bodies, and operating at the same time more drastically for tackling of emerging changes in the external environment, is shaping its training and development strategy, investing steadily in the strengthening of its human resources. 106 Sustainable Development Report With devotion to the vision and mission for the diffusion of knowledge, in an Organisation that constantly evolves and learns, it invests with consistency in the development of skills and expertise of employees, aiming at: • the full development of the abilities of its human resources • the securing of organisational and corporate continuity • the strengthening of the alignment of employees with the value and behavioral system and the promotion of a homogenised culture • the compliance with the legal and regulatory framework and the systematic coverage of the Group against operational, credit and other risks, with methodical monitoring of the relative educational indices and direct response to new training needs • the strengthening of expertise of the executives of Units that were created in the context of institutional and structural changes of the Bank. In 2016 there were 813,735 man-hours of training recorded in the Group (679,438 at Bank level with employees on secondment included), while there were 4,374 in-house and external business training courses organised or utilised (3,310 at Bank level) which covered 11 thematic sections. At Group level there was an average of 43 man-hours of training per employee recorded (48 at Bank level). In their total, the topics of training and development of human resources, such as in-house training courses, Academies, relevant procedures, training means etc, are uploaded to the internal communication channel of the Bank (HR Portal) and available to every employee. Applications to participate in educational/development programs can be submitted either from the employee himself/herself in cooperation with the Head of his/her Unit, or from the Organisational Learning. Consequently every employee has the opportunity to develop knowledge and skills any time he/she needs to. Sustainable Development Report 107 Development Library* 2014 2015 2016 266 208 189 * Number of books utilized Distribution of training man – hours per topic Piraeus Bank Regulatory Compliance – Anti – Fraud and Anti – Corruption 168,397 Business Development 145,323 Finance 134,062 IT Systems 86,105 Leadership & Management Skills Development 42,064 Customer Service 34,224 Human Rights 22,194 Specialized Technical Skills 19,902 Corporate Culture 11,170 Other 9,731 Corporate Social Responsibility 6,266 Distribution of training man – hours per topic Piraeus Bank Group Regulatory Compliance – Anti – Fraud and Anti – Corruption 174,506 Business Development 168,298 Finance 178,256 IT Systems 100,819 Leadership & Management Skills Development 51,906 Customer Service 48,709 Human Rights 22,282 Specialized Technical Skills 30,114 Corporate Culture 13,246 Other 18,471 Corporate Social Responsibility 7,130 Training Distribution Ratio per Gender Percentage of training man – hours, Piraeus Group Women 57% Women 59% Men 43% Men 41% Piraeus Bank Piraeus Bank Group Training Distribution Ratio per Gender Average training man – hours, Piraeus Group Women 48 Women 43 Men 49 Men 44 Piraeus Bank Piraeus Bank Group Distribution of Average Training Man – Hours per Hierarchical Level Piraeus Bank Senior & Top Management 1% Senior & Top Management 20 Middle Management 15% Middle Management 100 Professionals & Other Staff 84% Professionals & Other Staff 45 Percentage of training man – hours Average training man – hours Training Man – Hours per Hierarchical Level Piraeus Bank Group Senior & Top Management 1% Senior & Top Management 13 Middle Management 15% Middle Management 83 Professionals & Other Staff 84% Professionals & Other Staff 41 Percentage of training man – hours Average training man – hours Distribution of Trainees per Geographical Region* Other areas 34% Thessaloniki 10% Attica 56% * Including employees on secondment in the Bank Regulatory Compliance Training Particular emphasis was given by the Group to issues of Regulatory Compliance and combating fraud and corruption. Through the uploaded on the Intranet, Regulatory Compliance Policy, but also through the constant training of employees, the Group adamantly seeks to define, identify and avert the risk of legal and supervisory sanctions. It also aims at the elimination of any risk of financial loss or damage to its reputation or that of its stakeholders, as a result of a non or partial compliance to laws, supervisory authority decisions, self-regulatory rules and codes of ethics. The ultimate goal of these actions is the reinforcement of employees with relevant expertise and the strengthening of their ethical behaviour and integrity, which are elements that affect broadly their everyday activity. At Group level there were 174,506 training man hours on matters of Regulatory Compliance, prevention and combating of fraud and corruption, with 28,097 participations. Training on Health and Safety at Work Ensuring Health and Safety at work is a key objective of the Piraeus Bank Group that has as main concern the protection of its people and of the natural environment. Within 2016, the Bank, fully aligned with the relevant legislation, implemented the training of members of fire, safety & emergency groups aiming at transferring the basic fire-safety skills needed for the prevention and suppression of fires possible to occur in workplace. These sessions were attended by 687 employees. In addition, e-learnings were designed and assigned to 345 employees of the Bank, with the basic goal of offering information and training on matters of Safe Evacuation and First Aid Provision in case of emergency, such knowledge could be applied to every aspect of employees' life. Business Investment & Insurance Service Certifications In compliance with the regulatory context, in 2016, there were 189 employees of the Bank certified in the provision of investment services, while 89 already certified employees renewed their certificates for the next five years. In addition, 847 employees were certified for the provision of insurance services. Schools and Academies During 2016, the creation of 4 Schools and 2 Academies continued, aiming at the development of skills and knowledge with a systematic and structured approach while also covering a wide spectrum of thematic sections. Specifically in the Bank the following were implemented: S/N Schools – Academies Training man-hours Participants 1 Personal Partner School 21,624 1,940 2 Stellar Service Academy 12,221 12,221 3 Branch Manager School 11,170 686 4 Small Businesses and Professionals Partner 1,632 51 5 Restructurings School 1,528 96 6 Management Academy 890 76 Total 49,065 15,070 During 2016, 318 Heads of the Branch Network completed their training in the Branch Manager School, which began in 2014. The School constitutes a multi-themed project aiming at the following 5 basic axes: • s haping a uniform culture and securing excellent branch business operation • development of entrepreneurship through active utilisation of the human resources of each branch • reinforcement of the customer-centric approach, with emphasis on excellent customer service • management of change • motivation, support and development of all teams and executives in branches. 116 Sustainable Development Report The Academy of Stellar Service constitutes an educational action, addressed to all employees of the Branch Network and aims at the strengthening and guidance of all operations in the shaping of a uniform culture, with customer at the centre and at making sure the customer has an excellent experience in Piraeus Bank Branches. During 2016 12,221 participations were recorded. The Academy of Stellar Service is supported by an electronic platform, the design of which was completed in 2016. This platform constitutes an innovative digital environment, which aims at ensuring the diffusion of the expertise that has at its disposal, in the field of customer experience management in a branch, in order for the whole Branch Network to be benefited during the contact with the customers. It possesses a structured methodology of conducting training discussions that take place periodically under the supervision of the Branch Manager and his/her team, with the goal of shaping customer-centric approach best practises. In parallel, in a very user-friendly interactive communication environment, the platform allows for the energetic exchange of ideas and reference points. As a result, the platform functions as a dynamic channel of alternative training. Finally, during 2016, the Credit & Risk Academy was designed with the goal to cultivate a uniform culture in matters of credit policy in the Group as well as to adopt a complete approach in risk management with emphasis on Business Loans. The empowering of the executives in Risk Assessment and Management will contribute to the homogenised exercise of and adherence to credit policy, aiming at the excellent service of the customer and at the same time at securing the interests of the Group and its Shareholders. Development of Leadership and Managerial Skills Guided by the need to ensure Organisational continuity and alignment with the strategy and Values of the Group, in 2016, existing programs continued and new ones were implemented, for the strengthening of managerial and leadership skills of executives of all organisational levels and especially of middle level executives at Branch Network and Administration Units. In the direction of maintaining and enriching the organisational knowledge to ensure corporate sustainability, in 2016: • T he implementation of the Management Academy programs continued (for 2016, five different programs), and they were attended by 60 middle and senior management executives, 42 of which graduated. • The Situational Leadership programs (Self, One to One and Team) for middle and senior management executives continued in order to strengthen their abilities in self, one to one and team leadership. The programs in class are followed by individual coaching. During the year 106 participations were recorded and 201 individual coaching sessions. • The program Six Thinking Hats continued. It concerns the conducting of creative and effective meetings and the creative solving of business problems. It was attended by 35 middle and senior management executives. • The blended program The First Steps in Management continued. It consists of 8 sections of distance learning (e-learning) and 2 workshops in class. In 2016, 88 middle management executives received a certificate from the program. • The Piraeus Pathways program continued for 15 Assistant Managers of Administration Units, aiming at the strengthening of their managerial and leadership skills and more specifically of their extroversion and business acumen through their participation in daily workshops of best practices exchange and interaction with executives from several sectors of the Greek market. • 3 new blended programs were designed and implemented (e-learning modules Managing for Results , Managing Relations , Leadership Fundamentals from the Harvard Manage Mentor Library in combination with an experience workshop in class) and they were completed by 111 middle management executives in total. • A new workshop program was designed and implemented, Management of Change and Emotional Intelligence , for middle level executives of Administration Units aiming at the Sustainable Development Report 117 strengthening of their skills in order to handle effectively the constant changes of their working environment and function collegially as individuals and team leaders. 286 executives took part in the program in 2016. • The new workshop program On Boarding For Teams was designed and addressed for the first time to 23 executives of a selected Unit of the Bank, irrespective of their level of responsibility, with the goal to reinforce their ability to cooperate both between themselves and also with members of other teams for the effective achievement of common goals, their resilience to changes and their operating within the value model of Piraeus Bank. • The new Piraeus Leading Ahead workshop program was designed and addressed to 13 top management executives of a selected Unit of the Bank, in order to reinforce skills of guidance and motivation of colleagues, as well as of effective management of periodic changes, within the value framework of Piraeus Bank Group. • The new workshop program Be-Say-Do was designed and implemented for 20 executives –Regional Directors of the Network and their Heads of Units– for the definition of the basic pillars of support of the work of Network Directors, in the context of the operational change of the Bank’s Network. • The workshops Creating High Potential Innovative Teams were implemented with the participation of 13 top management executives and the workshops Transform Leaders in Businesses to Build Intelligent Enterprises were implemented with the participation of 28 top management executives of Administration Units. • Finally, in the direction of self-improvement and of strengthening administrative skills of all executives of the Bank and the preparation of the younger ones for their next role, 1,971 assignments of e-learning lessons of development content were accomplished. Distance Learning: e-learning With the goal to cover increasing needs for education and development of the human resources, for strengthening inhouse training and for promoting life long learning, e-learning constitutes a pillar of the Knowledge Management System of the Group. It is supported by two electronic platforms, servicing the employees of the Bank and of the subsidiary companies. With systematic utilisation of available tools, such as chat, library, wiki, questionnaire, forum, etc, e-learning constitutes a medium that gives users (trainees, teachers, business experts) the ability to develop communication and synergies, exchange views and good practices, promote knowledge and contribute to its diffusion in the Organisation. In 2016, there were 516,270 man-hours recorded at Group level through e-learning (26,225 at Group Subsidiaries level). At Bank level the following were recorded: e-learning 2016 Training man-hours 490,045 Participations 82,850 e-learning courses 164 The further development of distance learning with the introduction of new learning channels as well as with parallel utilisation of alternative forms and methods (webinars, virtual classrooms) constitutes a basic goal of the Group, with the aim to improve the provided training, to strengthen self-improvement culture and life long learning, to improve the quality of life of employees and to reduce the environmental footprint of the Organisation. 118 Sustainable Development Report Participation in Training Outside the Bank Aiming at being constantly informed about the new trends of the modern market and at the enrichment and diffusion of knowledge at individual and corporate level, during 2016 there were 2,840 participations of Bank’s executives to conferences, workshops, and seminars organised by established professional and scientific bodies in Greece and abroad. Books and Subscriptions In the context of covering specialised needs of individual Units and strengthening the knowledge of executives, during 2016, the Bank purchased 84 books and scientific works, while 122 subscriptions in professional bodies in Greece and abroad were utilised. Quality of Training Services Piraeus Bank Group has developed an evaluation system for all the parameters of training actions and a monitoring process for relative indices, in order to evaluate the quality and effectiveness of training along with the return on investment and the investment in human resources. During 2016 the review of the evaluation process was completed. The process was enriched with the addition of modern tools and methods. Utilising Technology to Improve HR Services and the Employee Experience Having as a basic line of action the Human Resource Management System, the effort to provide services of high quality and speed to the employees and trustworthy information to the executives of the Bank continues. During 2016, the database of the system was enlarged, with new employee data and information regarding the organisational structure of most domestic subsidiaries of the Group. The existing approval flows were improved, new functions were integrated such as the weighing of training activity and development procedures were added, such as the management of the individual development plan of employees. Distinctions In 2016, in the context of the HR Excellence Awards, Piraeus Bank won the gold award in the section HR Systems & Practices , a subcategory of Technology in HR, and the gold award in the section Corporate Social Responsibility, Best CSR Initiative (with employees’ involvement) in the HR Awards. The Philosophy of Communication with Human Resources Piraeus Bank Group recognises the vital importance of communication with human resources and the effect it has on the relations, views, behaviours, stance of its people, and on the philosophy of the organisation itself. With consistency and sincerity in everyday corporate communication, the sense of security is developed and strengthened, good faith, integrity and cooperation are achieved, the faster and more effective diffusion of expertise and transfer of information are accomplished in all levels, with the goal to contribute to the development of new products and services, the service of customers and the cooperation with social partners. Utilising different channels of communication, the employees are informed, participate, utilise, shape and improve their business and individual thinking and action to the benefit of a common course and corporate identity. The culture of the Group constitutes the bond, what guides the way in which the employees understand, act and feel, adding value to the name and reputation of the Group and earning the trust of the customers. Piraeus Bank Group invests in the diffusion of its corporate culture and of the common Values model. In this direction and with the central message Composing our Future the Human Resources and Organisational Learning of the Group began early in 2014 a wide spectrum of coordinated and targeted actions that were continued in 2016. With emphasis on the understanding of the Values model of the Group, the promotional campaign Living our Values [LoV] was designed. After participating in a one-day workshop, senior management executives from the Administration Units and the Branch Network were called upon, in cooperation with their teams, to seek and record real examples of behaviours regarding how were the Values of the Group experienced in their everyday working life. The examples were promoted through the HR Portal, so that employees could share everyday practices of reinforcing the corporate culture. The actions to reinforce the corporate Vision and Values model are programed for 2017 as well. Sustainable Development Report 119 Corporate Vision & Model of Values Dissemination of knowledge & information Common perception of strategic goals Two – way communication Shaping of uniform corporate culture Sense of trust in leadership / Management In addition, looking systematically for the views of the employees, small scale polls are being conducted, with their results being uploaded on the HR Portal for the update of employees, while every two years the Employee Engagement Survey is taking place. In this context, with a poll about the LoV campaign, the view of employees about how they experience the 7 Values of the Group in their team emerged. Finally, strengthening the open and two-way communication, in 2016, a research project was conducted to examine the employees’ view regarding the type and quality of information they receive or would like to receive through the HR Portal. From the participation of 7,471 (51%) of employees in the project, valuable information was acquired and suggestions that give the stimulus for the design and implementation of actions that constantly improve communication with human resources. Investing in the Emergence of Synergies and the Communication through the Role of HR Business Partner. The new reality and the modern competitive environment demands from the Human Resources to operate as a conveyor of change promoting the contribution of the human factor as a primary mean to achieve the sustainability of the Group. By creating the role of HR Business Partner and reinforcing effective internal communication of the goals and the direction of the organisation, the Bank aims at the energetic participation and the strengthening of the devotion of its people to its plans through their motivation, development and empowerment. HR Business Partner is called upon to act as the link, understanding the particularities of the business environment, of the needs of the internal customers and of the dynamic of the people of the Group and communicate the vision of the Administration ensuring that all work towards the same direction and share the same values and goals. It contributes to the alignment of the organisational culture with the goals of the Group, in relation to the way people of the Bank communicate, work, cooperate and produce results. It aims at the strengthening of the open and two-way communication to all directions utilising the synergies with the Units of the Bank and the specialised sectors of the Human Resources. Piraeus Bank Group Summer Camp Fyllarakia In the direction of supporting employees and their families, the summer camp Fyllarakia operated again during the summer of 2016 as a provision to all the children of employees of the Bank and the subsidiaries in Greece. In order to further improve the provided services, there were infrastructure revamping projects completed by the Technical Projects Unit of the Bank while fixed assets and other materials were replaced. In parallel, in cooperation with the HRMS team, the systemic procedure of applications from parents was upgraded for children's accommodation in the camp. Despite the challenges of the volatile economic climate, the summer camp operated smoothly for two periods of 15 days each, during which 70 people were employed and 447 children were accommodated for free, aged 7-14 years old. Finally in 2016 the Summer Camp program was designed with the environmentally friendly and socially responsible philosophy of Piraeus Bank Group in mind, providing to the children multiple opportunities to play, learn and familiarise with the Values context of the Group. Modern and Secure Working Environment The legislation that concerns the health and safety of employees is fully applied by Piraeus Bank, which recognises the seriousness and great importance of the issue, exhibiting special sensitivity on the promotion of the good body and mind health of its employees. Throughout the year there was not any absence noted in Attica and the rest of Greece due to work place accidents, both in the Bank and its subsidiaries. The Bank makes sure constantly that its working environment is modern, healthy and safe and in parallel it provides services and actions that promote the health and well-being of its employees and their families (indicatively: provision of gyms and dietitian). Meanwhile seeking to reduce the psychosocial risk and its effects on the working place, the Bank has created a complete system for its prevention, evaluation and management, through specific tools, programs and services, both at internal structures level and also in cooperation with external providers. In the context of prevention on matters of health and safety in the working place, awareness campaigns are activated Sustainable Development Report 121 in cooperation with the Office Doctors. In 2016 there were 3 targeted updates made to corresponding Administration Units, that were evaluated as exceptionally positive by the recipients. Commitment for Securing Human Rights Piraeus Bank has adopted the principles of the UN Global Compact for defending human rights and implements the principle of equal opportunities to all its actions, while it opposes to any form of discrimination, uneven behaviour and harassment in the working place. The respect of human rights governs all its policies, procedures and practices of HR management of the Group, ensuring a working environment that accepts and integrates diversity. All human resources of the Bank have access to the Human Rights Policy and the Group's Complaint Management Process, which are uploaded on the Intranet and the HR Portal. The Policy includes references to collective representation, equal opportunities, harassment and violence in the working place. At the same time, a positive working environment is ensured that promotes internal communication, through several channels and opposes any form of malpractice. Finally, there are distinct references made to the responsibility of the organisations on matters of the environment and prevention of corruption, as well as on the principle of confidentiality and privacy. In 2016 there were 14 incidents of human rights violations in the Group, none of which concerned a case of discrimination (based on gender, religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation) and all of which were dealt with and resolved in accordance with the established procedure. During the last quarter of 2015, the revised e-learning titled Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Diversity in the Work Place was assigned to all Human Resources of the Bank and the subsidiaries in Greece, utilising in total 142,302 man-hours of training; 22,194 in 2016. The lesson remained available to all employees throughout 2016 and was attended by 1,855 more employees (that is 14% of the employees of the Bank, including employees on secondment), covering in total from the beginning of its assignment, the 82% of the Bank's employees. The sensitisation of the Administration Units was again for this year significant regarding the safeguarding of a psychologically healthy working environment with emphasis on respect and support, promoting the value of good practices and communication channels for the management of relevant matters. In parallel, emphasis was given on matters of managing sensitive health issues. The aim of the Bank is to have in place a support framework for the employees that face physical or psychological health challenges (either themselves or members of their family), and to consult to the Units regarding their smooth reintroduction in the workplace. In addition, the Bank supported working mothers in their new role, as 100% of the new mothers who requested cumulative leave, utilised it immediately after their maternity leave. More specifically, 31% made use of up to 3 months of cumulative leave, 12% utilised leave of 6 months and 57% of cumulative leave for a period of more than 6 months. Finally, aiming at the energetic contribution in the safeguarding of human rights, evaluation criteria of collaborators and suppliers were specially created, such as the provision of equal opportunities, non acceptance of child or forced labour, compliance with the principles of business ethics and the protection of the environment. Employee Assistance Programs – EAPs For the 8th consecutive year, with an unwavering commitment to prevention and support of employees and their families, all employees were given the opportunity to utilise counselling support services through the internationally certified EAP in cooperation with a certified external EAP services provider. Employee Assistance Programs Services focus on the prevention and guidance for the more effective management of personal, professional and family challenges. They mainly concern a 24/7 Helpline, counselling guidance face to face, as well as management of sudden traumatic events. Focusing on prevention, the awareness campaigns continued in 2016 for EAP services to 1,136 employees in 6 Administration Units. Adapting the spectrum of services to the employees and the understanding of the importance of prevention and support, the service provision of EAP was –importantly– expanded to cover 5 more subsidiaries of the Group in Greece, covering about 600 additional employees and reaching a total of 7 companies of the Group in Greece (including Piraeus Direct Services and Piraeus Bank Cultural FoundationPIOP). In parallel, the support of expatriates of the Group to subsidiaries abroad continued, aiming at the continuous reinforcement of them and their families against the challenges they face. 122 Sustainable Development Report Also, seeking the promotion and safeguarding of health and wellbeing in the working environment, the awareness campaign regarding the identification and management of early dangerous behaviours and the management of sickness continued this year, empowering 229 executives, in charge of employee groups, in the Administration Units. Finally, the awareness campaign for employees and their families regarding matters of psychosocial health, continued with the utilisation of targeted lectures. See www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Human Resources>Employee Assistance Programs Volunteer Actions & Awareness Campaigns With a clear direction towards its vision and Values, the Group systematically seeks sustainable growth with emphasis on Society, Culture and the Environment. In this context, in 2016, there were 118 volunteer actions completed along with 71 awareness campaigns with the participation of the employees and their families, for which information is presented analytically in the section Society, Culture, Environment . Sustainable Development Report 123 Assessment of Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs) 100% 100% 98% Satisfaction Would use the service again Would recommend with the 24 / 7 service to colleagues to use the EAP services Society, Culture and the Environment Piraeus Bank has incorporated, voluntarily and with the sole motive of solidarity, social and environmental actions in its business activities and its contacts with stakeholders. It constantly adapts the economic, social and environmental aspects of its operation to the balanced management of economic growth – sustainability – social cohesion . In this context it contributes each year to programs that aim at the strengthening of vulnerable social groups and the protection of the natural environment, while especially important is the contribution of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) in the preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage of the country. The contribution in actions, programs and initiatives of social, cultural and environmental character corresponds for 2016 to 1.7% of the annual pre tax and provision profits of the Group. Corporate Responsibility Committee In the context of the systematic integration of the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility to the Group, a committee has been established, presided over by Ms Sofia Staikou, Chairman of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. Members of the Committee include Senior General Managers and General Managers of the Bank, the Scientific Advisor of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and the Director of the Environmental Unit. Social Actions Piraeus Bank remained loyal again in 2016 to the philosophy that shapes the principles of Sustainable Development and which is mirrored in the actions that strengthen vulnerable social groups, promote business entrepreneurship and ensure progress in the living and cultural standards of the society. Through volunteerism, synergies with non governmental organisations and through the sponsorships and donations program, Piraeus Bank Group supported actively health organisations, schools, educational and cultural institutions. More specifically in the field of health, Piraeus Bank contributed to the action of the National Organisation for Healthcare Services Provision (EOPYY) for the improvement of the operational condition of the customer service centres of the National Primary Health Network (PEDY) as well as for the upgrade of the transaction services. Recognising the difficult task of public hospitals and in aid of them, the Group, supported hospitals such as the Attikon University General Hospital, the St. George General Hospital in Chania, the Giorgos Gennimatas General Hospital of Athens, the Asklipio General Hospital in Voula. In addition, in the field of education, realising it is a sector greatly influenced by new technologies as among others they empower life long learning, the Group, supported through the provision of personal computers more than 200 schools of Primary and Secondary Education, and educational institutions all over Greece, with direct donations and sponsorships. Indicatively: University of Ioannina, Democritus University of Thrace, Technological Educational Institute of Epirus, Aristotle University Property and Management Company, University of Macedonia Property Management Corporation, Athens University of Economics and Business and more. Sustainable Development Report 129 In the context of actions to promote and strengthen healthy entrepreneurship, the Group supported the organising of relevant conferences and seminars as well as institutes, professional bodies, business associations etc. For another year, Piraeus Bank supported the American Farm School of Thessaloniki and sponsored five scholarships to students of the School. The Group continued the sponsorship of the savings program for 76 children, students of Lipsi and Arki islands, through which every child receives upon entering adulthood a sum of money to help him/her start adult life. Recognising the work of Non Governmental Organisations and the importance of their actions and for the achievement of their social purposes, the Bank supported in 2016 with donations the institutions: Rehabilitation for the Disabled Children ELEPAP, One Dream One Wish Cyprus Association for Children with Cancer and Related Diseases, The smile of child Child Welfare Organisation and others. Through its donations and sponsorships program, Piraeus Bank turned to the support of local communities, where it is active through the Network of Branches, providing donations and sponsorships to more than 30 Municipalities and institutions aiming at the improvement of the quality of life and the strengthening of the social and cultural life of these communities. At the centre of the Corporate Responsibility strategy of Piraeus Bank lies the preservation and promotion of culture. For a long series of years, Piraeus Bank supports associations and organisations with an undeniable contribution to culture such as the Thessaloniki Concert Hall, the Diazoma citizen’s movement for the promotion of ancient monuments and theatres and the Plegma cultural activities non-profit organisation. In addition the work of ecclesiastical institutions was supported such as that of: the Holy Metropolises of Serres and Nigrita, of New Ionia and Philadelphia, of Kitro, Katerini and Platamon. Declaration of Volunteerism The message that defines volunteerism at Piraeus Bank Group is: I care, I participate, I voluntarily act in initiatives that make a difference in Society, Culture and the Environment . Piraeus Bank recognises the special importance sustainable development has for the society, and it aims at the creation of added value for the customers, employees, shareholders, local societies and the environment, promoting at the same time the value of volunteerism with the participation of employees themselves and of their families. Operating with responsibility and seeking to contribute to important issues and needs of the Society, the Bank supports the work of specialised NGOs with reference to the axes of supporting vulnerable social groups, promoting young entrepreneurship, promoting fair play, protecting the environment, and cultural sensitisation and awareness, by utilising the voluntary contribution of employees. Furthermore, the volunteer actions realised by the Group are related to the needs of local societies (through the network of presence and action of the Group) and the interests of the volunteers themselves (after interests’ survey). Through dialogue with partners and the access to open information regarding the volunteer actions, the volunteers choose to contribute to meaningful projects related to specific needs and which significantly affect the lives of fellow citizens. The object and effect of volunteer actions on Society are published annually in the Corporate Responsibility Report, in the context of transparency. Piraeus Bank has integrated the design and implementation of volunteer actions in the practices of the Human Resources, in cooperation with the Environment Unit and the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. Volunteer Actions With a clear orientation stemming from the Vision and Values of the Group, there were 118 volunteer actions completed in 2016, 30 of which by subsidiaries abroad. The total number of participations to volunteer initiatives in Greece reached in 2016, 10,038 (686 of which were from employees of domestic subsidiaries) while 311 employees participated in actions organised by the subsidiaries themselves. Volunteer-participants who supported actions organised by subsidiaries abroad reached 2,165. From the sum of the Group’s actions, 35,810 people were benefited along with 71 NGOs. 130 Sustainable Development Report In parallel, regarding Culture and the Environment, in 2016, there were 71 actions of cultural and environmental awareness in Greece at Bank level, utilising the expertise of PIOP and of the Environment Unit. In these actions, 2,798 employees and members of their families participated promoting the thematic information of children and adults on relevant issues. In addition, aiming at the strengthening of entrepreneurship and the promotion of best practices of the Group, executives are encouraged to participate in conferences and seminars organised in Greece and abroad. In this context, in 2016, 40 executives of the Group participated as speakers in conferences and science seminars, offering expertise and best practices know-how to the market, supporting actively the business and academic community. Supporting the New Generation and the Development of Young Entrepreneurship With the voluntary participation of executives in programs of young entrepreneurship, the Group seeks to help the young (students and graduates) understand the meaning of entrepreneurship guiding them to correct practices of using business, mortgage and consumer credit. At the same time, it informs them about the role of economies and businesses in the international economy, as well as about the value of competitiveness and innovation. In this context, since 2010, the cooperation with the Junior Achievement Greece Organisation (SEN/JA) continues steadily. In parallel, recognising the need to support and help young people in their job search, the cooperation with the volunteer platform Job Pairs began, through which executives of the Bank acting as mentors pass on their professional experience to young people who are looking for a job. At Group level, 27 actions were completed to strengthen young entrepreneurship with the participation of 40 volunteers-employees; the actions benefited 441 students of secondary education and graduates. Social and Cultural Actions of Piraeus Bank Group International Network Piraeus Bank Group invests in Sustainable Growth and its international network, with initiatives and actions that strengthen society and culture. Cyprus • C  ooperation with Europa Donna Cyprus for the 7th consecutive year, with the completion of actions that reinforce the campaign against breast cancer. In 2015, the advertising campaign was enriched with an online petition that gathered 21,000 signatures supporting the claim for the creation of the 1st Specialised Breast Centre in Cyprus, resulting in its creation in 2016. The campaign takes place every October and it culminates with the Pink Figures March , contributing to the raising of awareness and prevention against breast cancer. • Supporting the work of Humanitarian Institutions/Organisations such as One Dream, One Wish , Theotokos Foundation, Association for the Welfare of People with Mental Handicap, Cyprus Autistic Association, Cyprus Children Fund Committee, Vagoni Agapis , Cyprus Breastfeeding Association Gift for Life . • Reinforcement and support of the volunteer actions of Red Cross for the prevention and relief of human pain, as well as for responding to emergency situations irrespective of gender, religion, political convictions etc, of those involved. For the 3rd consecutive year, Piraeus Bank Cyprus launched an advertising campaign to inform the public about the work of Red Cross Cyprus and support the Cypriot fundraiser From Door to Door . The campaign contributed financially but also raised awareness and promoted active participation, noting significant revenues for the organisation and gathering bags of love of food, breakfast for students, warm lunches, aiding the important work of Red Cross Cyprus. • Investment in young education and entrepreneurship with scholarship programs for top students of poor families. • Strategic collaboration with the Junior Achievement Organisation in the program Sustainable Development Report 131 Entrepreneurship in Education . Piraeus Bank Cyprus took part with a donation of funds and the active participation of its executives in the interactive educational program. • Sponsorships of children theatre shows, encouraging education through entertainment and the wider cultural training of the young. • Preservation of traditions, art and culture through sponsorships of local events and actions. Bulgaria • S ponsorship of the Blagodotel (benefactor) campaign in collaboration with Unicef. Since 2011, the Bank offers a special series of co-branded cards, the use of which contributes to the gathering of an amount of money which is later reinforced by the Bank, supporting in this way the work of Unicef for children with special social needs. • Donations and grants to humanitarian institutions and social offer actions for the support of low income pensioners, children with health problems, with no families, premature births, etc. • Promotion of the values and ideals of sports and fair play through an annual sponsorship to the National Boxing Association and support of the participation of the Bulgarian female boxer Stanimira Petrova in the Olympic Games in Rio 2016. Boxing is considered as one of the most popular sports in Bulgaria. • Participation in the annual exhibition Career Days with the gathering of CVs and provision of professional career opportunities to Bulgarian university graduates. • Sponsorships of cultural character aiming at the preservation of social bonds and traditions and the rescue of national, historical and cultural heritage. Piraeus Bank Bulgaria is a sponsor of the action Wonders of Bulgaria organised by Standart News Bulgaria. • Sponsorships of visual art exhibitions of the Association of Bulgarian Artists. Albania • B  lood donation for the 8th consecutive year in cooperation with the Albanian Red Cross. • Gathering goods voluntarily (food, clothes, toys, furniture etc), organising recreational actions and sponsorships to support vulnerable social groups such as the homeless, orphan children, people suffering from incurable diseases or who live under the poverty line, etc. Tirana Bank has steady co-operations to support the humanitarian initiatives of Municipalities and communities, with the Albanian Red Cross, the SOS Children’s Villages, the Down Syndrome Albania Foundation etc. In a special event in 2016, the Mayor of Tirana presented Tirana Bank with a distinction certificate and award for the social sensitivity it exhibited by sending furniture to a nursery in the Komuna e Parisit region. • Financial support for the exterior refurbishment of the Medical Centre in the Vora region. • Donation of 10 personal computers to secondary education schools in the rural areas of Pogradec for the teaching of information science course. • Promotion of sports ideals and fair play through the undertaking of sports sponsorships in cooperation with the Albanian Table Tennis Federation, the Albanian Badminton Federation and the Boxing Team of Vllaznia region. • Support of the young education and entrepreneurship in cooperation with the Junior Achievement organisation. In 2016, Tirana Bank completed with success the educational program Leader for a day according to which, selected students are accommodated for 1 day in the Management Building where they are in touch directly with the Managing Director learning in the process from the inside the operation of the Bank. 132 Sustainable Development Report • S ponsorship of the EU Transit event that took place on the 9th of May, which was the Day of Europe. During the event, young people presented innovative business ideas with applications in the sectors of Agro-tourism, Art, Culture, Technology and Communication. The event was attended by representatives of the Albanian Government and the business world and focused on the prospects of development in Albania, accession to the EU and the broader encouragement of start-up companies. Romania • P  articipation in the charity initiative of Princess Margareta of Romania and of the Special Fund for Children with donation of funds and school equipment so that the children can have access to education and don’t abandon school due to financial difficulties. • Voluntary financial support and organising of recreational events for the support of children from vulnerable social groups. • Encouragement to follow best practices through the website Curaj Romania of Piraeus Bank Romania (www.curajromania.ro and facebook page). The site started in 2012 from a simple idea: to support Romanian athletes participating in the Olympic Games. After the London experience and the spread of the Olympic Ideals, and of values like national unity and collective effort, the struggle for a medal inspired Piraeus Bank Romania to focus the content of its website on everyday success stories, on people with courage, ambition and social sensitivity who dare, create and inspire the society with their work. Serbia • Financial support to the Institute for Children and Youth Health Protection. • Financial support for the refurbishment of the Medical Centre in the city of Cacak. • Donation of the Bank and fundraising for the charity organisation BELhospice and the initiative that supports the creation of the first centre that helps and comforts last stage cancer patients. • Piraeus Leasing Belgrade donated to the Red Cross 50 tonnes of packaged food for the coverage of alimentation needs that increase especially during the winter. • Financial support of the organisation Good Cousin for children who live under the poverty line. • Support of the Education through sponsorships for the participation of students in international competitions, and through financial prizes and professional opportunities to top students of the Belgrade Banking Academy and the Mathematical Gymnasium Belgrade. • Investment in young education and entrepreneurship in cooperation with the Junior Achievement organisation and provision of scholarship programs to top students of poor families. • Spreading the sports ideals and fair play through participation in local sports activities and undertaking of sports sponsorships in cooperation with the Belgrade Football Subassociation, the Belgrade hockey club, the volleyball club Mladi Radnik and the Mega Leks basketball club. Sustainable Development Report 133 Ukraine • P  articipation in charity events and assumption of fundraising initiatives in order to support non profit organisations for the protection of vulnerable social groups. • Sponsorship of seminars for the socioeconomic prospects of development in Ukraine, the encouragement of start-ups, the international cooperation strategies in matters of Science-Business-Education etc. Frankfurt Branch • S upport and encouragement of business actions and synergies between Greece and Germany by participating to Greek-German Business Forums, trade exhibitions etc. • Sponsorships of events that promote Greek Culture and Art. 134 Sustainable Development Report Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) supports the preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage of the country, with emphasis on crafting and industrial technology, and promotes the connection between Culture and the Environment. Operational Framework and Basic Statutory Goals PIOP is a public benefit institution, funded for its operation by Piraeus Bank. It designs and implements projects and programs related to the culture and the environment, while at the same time, through its action, it fulfils a significant part of the commitments of the Bank regarding Sustainable Growth practices. The Foundation aims at the functional interconnection and the balanced promotion of culture and the environment through the action plan of its Museums in the regions of Greece. In this way, PIOP, and by extension the Bank, contribute significantly and with an effective way to the cultural affairs in Greece. The Basic Statutory Goals of PIOP are: • P  rovision of well founded information to society regarding the need to protect and preserve the traditional cultural character of Greece and the natural environment, in parallel with its economic growth as well as regarding the application of proper standards to achieve them. • The safeguarding, recording and promotion of the tangible and intangible cultural heritage of the country. • The recording of the history of the Group through the preservation and organisation of its archives. • The safeguarding of traditional crafting and industrial technology of the country, the recording of their history and the contribution to the research on traditional technology and industrial archaeology. • The contribution to the cultural and economic development of the country through research, promotion and utilisation of its cultural reserve. • The protection and management of the natural, urban and cultural environment. • The preservation and promotion of the landscape in the context of the principles of sustainable growth and the diffusion of environmental and social awareness to citizens and relevant institutions. The Achievement of the Statutory Goals of PIOP is promoted through: • The creation and management of an extensive network of thematic technological museums in the regions of Greece. These museums do not belong to the Foundation or the Bank but to the Local Authorities or the Greek State. • The Foundation assumes, according to the Museums' planning agreements, the responsibility of their exemplary operation, as well as the maintenance of the buildings and their collections. The assumption of these obligations may be passed on to the owners, after a specified period, if they so choose. • The realisation of research programs and the service of research needs of the scientific community. Sustainable Development Report 135 • T he preservation and promotion, to special and general public, of a Historical Archive connected to the economic, banking, industrial and agricultural history of Greece. • The publication of scientific works. • The organising of cultural actions. • The reinforcement of rescue actions. • The involvement of PIOP in the public dialogue for the shaping of strategies in the field of culture. PIOP’s Communication Strategy The communication strategy of the Foundation regarding the diffusion of informational material for its actions, is defined by its organic relation with the financial institution that funds it, the legal status under which it operates, its distinctive theme and its statutory goals. In this framework, communication with the wider public regarding the results of the work done by the Foundation and of its importance can be accomplished with any available means: lectures, seminars, conferences, exhibitions, films, periodicals and book publications, organisation and rescue of archives and use of all modern communication mediums or any other activities that serve the objectives of the Foundation. The upgrade and operation of the website of the Foundation, www.piop.gr, is constant and it now operates with several new technical capabilities and with a format comparable to that of the largest foundations and museums worldwide. In this context, PIOP, completed the planning and began the implementation of a strategic plan for the creation and support of local communities on social networking sites, for the Museums of its Network, the Historical Archive as well as for educational programs and other actions of PIOP. It also continues to promote the historical reserve of the Historical Archive, organising academic courses (on museology and cultural management), thematic tours, seminars and conferences. In the context of the promotion of the Foundation to the general public, in 2016, PIOP closed an agreement to cooperate with OTE TV for the broadcasting of PIOP’s documentaries, as well as of films from the Historical Archive and the Museums of PIOP. The Foundation publishes a trimonthly action plan on its site (www.piop.gr). 136 Sustainable Development Report PIOP communication chart www.piop.gr Specialized professional networks, Questionnaire measuring cultural tourism networks, educational the experience for museum visitors institutions and associations The e – newsletter “Piopnews” e – shop and Museum shops Athens and local communities PIOP events, participation in events hosted by local authorities & Environmental Education Centres (EEC), Printed and electronic media, The daily press, periodicals educational programmes in schools broadcasting media & scientific journals Special features or articles in the press or periodicals Communication Campaigns and dissemination of PIOP’s work Printed promotional material Scientific communities Participation in fora, events hosted by universities and scientific associations Social Media Facebook, Youtube Piraeus Bank Group Piraeus Bank Group Intranet Communication Means Group Group Special communication methods PIOP collaborations and synergies Scientific Associations Piraeus Group Employees Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Bodies related to PIOP’s scope of activities: ICOM, EMA, TICCIH, TIMS, Technical Universities, Regional Education Chamber of Greece, ICOMOS, DIAZOMA Directorates, Environmental Education Centres, Schools European Union Greek and International universities Educational Institutions & Research Ministry for the Environment Local Communities of Industrial Areas Agencies in Athens and the regions of Greece Local Authorities, Local Cultural and other Bodies International and Greek Archival Organizations Agencies SGA, GSA, EABH Ministry of Finance Partnerships for support of entrepreneurship in cultural Directorate Of Public Welfare Property and creative industries (CCIs) Associations of Institutions Ministry of Culture and Sports Ministry of Economy and Development The Specialized Management Print and electronic media Authority of the Operational Program “Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation” (EPAnEK) Greek and international research The Cultural Foundation of Piraeus Group Local communities, local authorities, and scientific institutions cultural, environmental and other agencies Actions Visitors to Museums 219,930 70% free of charge Actions in Thessaloniki 5,161 beneficiaries Publications 2,456 volumes donated 180 educational folders were delivered to schools 1,166 volumes (15 titles) as university textbooks Education 132 educational actions for minors 23 standard and 9 thematic educational programs PIOP Actions 10 exhibitions 123 cultural actions 83 partnerships with other institutions 19 series of actions 12 “horizontal” actions at all the Museums of PIOP Network Historical Archive 5,000 beneficiaries Library 10,000 beneficiaries 2016 Actions PIOP upheld for yet another year, the high standards regarding its operation and services it provides to the Greek society, despite the objective difficulties of the current economic circumstances. There has been a significant increase of the actions of the Foundation in the regions of Greece and Athens, while at the same time, PIOP inaugurated the two new thematic museums: the Chios Mastic Museum and the Silversmithing Museum in Ioannina. Scientific and Experiential Actions The organising of scientific and experiential actions, with emphasis on the production of new and the promotion or popularising of older research findings, is important. This is done in such a way that the local communities utilise the cultural reserve they possess, in the direction of self-knowledge, cultural and economic growth. PIOP measures and analyses the effect of its actions on the public with: • The systematic collection of data/visits that concern the museums of its network. • The keeping of visitor books at the museums of the network. • The systematic recording of requests, comments and complaints. • The constant communication with all interested parties and the response to written requests and the comments of those. • The organising of visitor satisfaction research projects for its museums. • The quantitative and qualitative analysis of its website visitors. • The monitoring of the response of the electronic newsletter piopnews recipients. • The consistent cataloguing of the Press and archive keeping of articles aiming at understanding the effect PIOP’s actions have. • The use of the questionnaire Your Voice Matters and the annual qualitative and quantitative analysis of the findings of relevant customer satisfaction research of those benefited from the actions of the Historical Archive. • The operation of a special platform to monitor research requests towards the Historical Archive. • A research study to assess the socio-economic impacts of the operation of the Museums of the PIOP Network. New Planning Period 2016 was the third year of the implementation and execution of the four-year plan of thematic reorientation, development and activation of PIOP, which began during 2013. The implementation was realised based on the capitalisation of experience and expertise, as these were founded during the previous years of operation and the accumulated experience since the first year of the implementation of the program. Integrating the dynamic that is developing – mainly through: a) the new NSRF 2014-2020, b) the program Creative Europe of the European Commission, c) the program Horizon 2020 , d) the program INTERREG 2014-2020 and Balkan-Med 2014-2020 and e) the action program of UNESCO, including the environment to its statutory goals, at par with culturePIOP monitors closely the prospects that are opening in the fields of culture and the environment, in Greece and internationally. In this way, the operational interconnection and the promotion of the culture and environment sections is being designed, through the action plan of PIOP Museums and through new thematic priorities such as Cultural Landscapes and Historic Centres , intensifying the already close cooperation with the Environment Unit of Piraeus Bank and other institutions in Greece. In addition, 2013 marked the 140 Sustainable Development Report beginning of the effort to reorganize and increase the extroversion of the PIOP Historical Archive in line with international good practices. In 2016, PIOP in cooperation with the Institute of Communication and Computer Systems of the National Technical University of Athens, the Imperial College London, the University of Malaga and five more European institutions, were chosen for funding for the common research program Pluggable Social Platform for Heritage Awareness and Participation (Pluggy) , in the context of the Call H2020-SC6-CULT-COOP-8-2016 Virtual museums and social platform on Europe and digital heritage, memory, identity and cultural interaction of the European funding program Horizon 2020. The cooperation secures the funding of a research project, with the goal of creating a virtual museum that will extend beyond the limits of the traditional museum. Culture, Environment and Corporate Responsibility Principles In the framework of harmonising its operation and procedures with the environmental targets of Piraeus Bank, PIOP has already completed the certification of its buildings according to EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) and ISO 14001. In parallel, in 2016, in the context of approved environmental programs of the Foundation, a series of energy studies and targeted interventions was completed regarding building and electromechanical equipment of PIOP’s Museums and its infrastructures in Athens, aiming at the improvement of their energy efficiency and by extension, the reduction of the environmental footprint of the Organisation. The 4th Environmental Statement of the Foundation was verified, according to the requirements of EMAS Regulation, from the Cyprus Certification Company, with environmental verifier registration number EMAS ELV-0009 (Accreditation Certificate Number 549) on the 10.08.2016. The Foundation according to 50486/1466/27.10.2014 Ministerial Decree, had already been registered to the Greek EMAS Register with the registration number EL-000110. Further integration of the Sustainable Development principles of Piraeus Bank Group in the operation of PIOP was pursued with consistency, again in 2016. More specifically the following were realised: • C  ontinuous monitoring of environmental performance indices, in the context of PIOP’s Environmental Management System. • Update of the certification of PIOP according to ISO 9001, update of the regulation and by extension of the managerial adequacy of the Foundation in order that demands are met; such as the new thematic priorities (mainly in the field of the Environment), the publications, the library and the Historical Archive. • Training of employees (more than 1,600 hours of training for all 92 employees of the Foundation). The ever increasing participation of the employees of the Foundation in the adoption of Sustainable Development practices of the Group, is achieved by them being constantly updated about developments regarding all actions and public accountability. Recognising the importance of providing First Aid to the visitors of all buildings of the Foundation, PIOP, in cooperation with the Hellenic Red Cross Samaritan, Rescuers and Lifeguards sector (regional department of Nea Smyrni), trained the personnel of the Museums and a number of members of the local communities in Basic Life Support (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, choking etc). The training took place in the Multipurpose Halls of the Museums by the above mentioned department of the Hellenic Red Cross. During 2016, 94 people were trained while the applications to participate were double that number. In addition: • T he voluntary contribution of 75 employees of the Group was mobilised in the context of the existing Volunteer Group of the Historical Archive of PIOP (Athens and Northern Greece) with a 10-hour program. • 3 employees volunteered for 97 hours to contribute to the program In Action of the Therapy Centre for Dependent Individuals and to the work of the Aegean Team towards the Aegean communities. Sustainable Development Report 141 Promotion of the Intangible Cultural Heritage The safeguarding, promotion and study of the intangible cultural heritage of Greece are basic thematic axes of the Foundation. In this context, the Foundation has supported scientifically and contributed decisively to the first two inscriptions of intangible cultural heritage elements of the country to the UNESCO’s Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. These are: a) the know-how of mastic cultivation in Chios, which was the first national nomination listed, from the Intergovernmental Committee of the UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, in its annual conference (Paris, 24-28 November 2014) and b) the Tinian Marble Craftmanship, which was listed after the General Conference of the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, in its 10th Session (Namibia, 30 November – 4 December 2015). These two elements of intangible cultural heritage of Greece are presented in two Museums of PIOP’s Network; the Museum of Chios Mastic in Chios, and the Museum of Marble Crafts in Tinos. In this way, PIOP contributes meaningfully to the promotion of intangible cultural heritage as well as to the support of the regions that host the Museums of its Network. For this reason, in recognition of its contribution to the promotion of intangible cultural heritage of the country and for the advancement of the country’s cultural capital, PIOP received accreditation from the General Assembly of State Parties of UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage in order that it functions as advisor and consultant towards the Intergovernmental Committee of the Convention. With emphasis on the rescue of the oral tradition of the country as an element of intangible cultural heritage and trying to connect the oral folk wisdom, and especially the proverbs with the thematic of its Museums, PIOP offered students of primary and secondary education one more tool for the better understanding of our past. So, the children’s theatre play Mr Timotheos and the lost gem of wisdom , was presented for the second consecutive year in the Athinais Multipurpose Centre. In the same context, a research program was designed and is being implemented for the recording of the local idioms of Ioannina. The research program is integrated in the effort to connect the Museum of Silversmithing in Ioannina, with the local community aiming at the promotion of the intangible cultural heritage of the area. In the same framework, 26 specialized actions were organized at the PIOP Museums, with the aim of promoting intangible cultural heritage. Culture and Entrepreneurship In the context of the alignment of PIOP with the new orientation axis of the European Union regarding the interconnection of culture with entrepreneurship, through Cultural Industries, the Foundation in 2016 realised the following actions: • C  omposition and deposition as Leader of the proposal Training, Counselling and Digital tools for more competitive SMESs (TCDSME’S) in the context of the European Program Interreg – BalkanMed, in cooperation with the NGO Organisation Earth , Cyprus Rural Museum, Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, University of Tirana and two more institutions from Bulgaria and Albania. The cooperation ensures the funding of a program aiming at the education, training and consultancy for the promotion of entrepreneurship and competitiveness of companies active in traditional sectors in the Balkan region, developing in parallel the cooperation and the interaction. • Its accession in the Corallia Network and specifically into the gi-Cluster, the first cluster of creative industries formed in Greece. Several companies, academic and research institutions active in the field of Gaming and Creative Technologies and Applications Industry gather their forces in its context, to create a domestic, industry-led value-chain developing high-tech, state-of-the-art competitive products for the international market . Corallia Clusters Initiative is a Unit of the Athena Research and Innovation Centre in Information, Communication and Knowledge Technologies that operates under the auspices of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religion. • Signing of a cooperation memorandum between PIOP and the INNOVATHENS Hub of Innovation and Entrepreneurship of the Technopolis (Municipality of Athens) for the creation of a format for the strengthening of cultural entrepreneurship, and specifically 142 Sustainable Development Report for the organisation of a business accelerator in INNOVATHENS especially for the field of creative and cultural industries. • Participation of PIOP and financial support of the program Epinisia EOS that regards career support of young people in the Greek islands, from the non-profit organisation Aelia – Working Life Lab. Aelia realised the program Epinisia EOS, which was active from November 2015 to October 2016, with missions to islands and with a network of distance consultation. Central goal of the program is to find opportunities for young people in productive sectors that can flourish in the Greek islands. The program was completed with success after visits to 20 islands, with 250 participants, 56 beneficiaries and 11 business initiatives. Museum Network PIOP ensures the sustainability and European-standard operation of a Museum Network in the regions of Greece. The coordinated actions of the Foundation are constantly enriched by the new knowledge and the developments in the cultural centres in Greece and Europe. The operation of the Museum Network and the coordinated actions of PIOP in all its buildings, contribute significantly to: a) the promotion of Greek cultural heritage and the interconnection of culture with the environment and sustainable growth, b) the promotion of traditional crafts and intangible cultural heritage of the land, supporting employment, economic and tourist activity and the general development of local communities, and c) the creation of spaces of culture and life-long learning by organising cultural, scientific and educational actions. The Museum Network serves PIOP’s fundamental pursuit for the rescue and promotion of the history of production of the country, with emphasis on traditional crafts and industrial heritage. The Network consists of nine thematic technological museums where the local crafts and industrial traditions are preserved and promoted, along with the tangible and intangible cultural heritage: Silk Museum (Soufli), Open-Air WaterPower Museum (Dimitsana), Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil (Sparta), Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Production of Lesvos (Aghia Paraskevi, Lesvos), Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas (Volos), Museum of Marble Crafts (Pyrgos, Tinos), Environment Museum (Stymphalia), the new Chios Mastic Museum (Chios) and the new Silversmithing Museum (Ioannina). During the year, the construction of the two new Museums was completed (Chios Mastic Museum and Silversmithing Museum) and they were added to the Network. PIOP ensures the sustainability and smooth operation of the Museums of the Network covering the sum of operating expenses and making sure for the proper management based on a centralised management system. At the same time, the Museums have dedicated monitoring committees, with the participation of local partners and representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Sports. The smooth operation of the Museums includes the tackling of all tactical and emergency management issues: maintenance and/or expansion works, event support, management and enrichment of Museum Shops and cafes and the further enrichment of the collections (database management, maintenance-storage, support, digital applications etc). With the operation of the Museum Network, besides the increase of tourism in remote or island regions, PIOP also contributes to the economic development of local communities creating jobs, while at the same time, procures from the local market the greater part of the goods and products sold in the cafes and Museum shops. The personnel of the Museums (40 people) resides in the area of each Museum’s operation and is periodically trained, so as the services offered to visitors are upgraded constantly (reception of people with vision problems, service of visitors with the use of audio tour guides, emergency evacuation procedures etc). Visits to the Museum Network reached 219,930 in 2016. The 70% of these visits was free of charge. It is noted that despite the economic crisis (and the consequent crisis in culture), PIOP’s Museums had a 14.25% increase in the number of visitors (49.36% including the visitors to Chios Mastic Museum and Silversmithing Museum in Ioannina which operated during the second half of the year), in comparison to 2015. The number of visitors is connected to the support of the local communities, in recognition of the positive effects in the promotion of their cultural identity and the boosting of their economy, as well as to Sustainable Development Report 143 the constant renewal of the cultural actions through periodic exhibitions, lectures, conferences and several other events. All Museums of the Foundation have Multipurpose Halls that constitute vibrant cultural cells, hosting educational programs, exhibitions, lectures, seminars and other events. The Halls are a valuable tool for the operation of the Museum Network, for the interconnection with local communities and for the broader promotion of the Foundation. The events that take place in these Halls are organised and coordinated primarily by the Foundation, while depending on the situation, the Halls are offered for the activities of third parties, mainly in the context of servicing the needs of local communities. The organising of high-standard cultural events in the Multipurpose Halls of the Museum Network aims at their establishment as centres of cultural production in the regions of Greece and as everyday spaces for the local communities. The Foundation organises artistic and scientific actions that correspond to the character of each Museum or are presented to all Museums, while it often collaborates with local institutions and/or offers the use of the Halls for the hosting of events, the organising of which is assumed by those institutions. Specifically, in 2016 there were 132 educational actions and programs organised, 10 exhibitions, 123 other cultural actions and 83 collaborations with third party institutions based on the thematic axes of PIOP, as well as 31 cycles of repeated actions (artistic workshops, musical meetings, summer workshops for children, seminars, documentary screenings, children’s cinema etc). The social role of the Museums is multifaceted. Apart from being main agents for the promotion of cultural goods, they are called upon to sensitise the public and safeguard the cultural heritage for future generations. In addition, the Museums contribute to the economy of the regions where they are located. The economic impact is not limited to the activity during the construction of the building infrastructures and the jobs that regard the personnel of a Museum (direct impact). There are also revenues and employment for the sectors that participate in the supply chain of the Museum with goods and services (indirect impact). In addition, revenues created directly or indirectly are channelled to consumption, causing further activity for the total of the economy (induced impact). Finally, the operation of cultural spaces contributes to the upgrade of the image of the wider area and attracts visitors, leading to an increase in tourism and in demand of products and services offered in the specific areas (catalytic impact). In the context of a special research study conducted by PIOP, in cooperation with the Foundation for Economic & Industrial Research (IOBE), regarding the social and economic impact of the Museums of the Foundation at the local level, interesting results were produced that show and quantify their impact on local communities. For each of the Museums belonging to PIOP’s Network, the study examines direct, indirect, induced and catalytic impacts from their operation in terms of economic activity and employment, at the local level and for the whole country, with the use of a suitably adapted model of inflows-outflows for the Greek economy. PIOP’s Museum Network consists of nine thematic Museums in operation in the Greek periphery. Besides permanent exhibitions, the Museums accommodate cultural events, contributing further to the improvement of the quality of life of local communities. The scope and importance of the contribution of the Museums to the local societies are best understood if the economic characteristics of the areas in which they operate are taken into consideration. Specifically, with the exception of the Museums in Ioannina and Volos, the other Museums are located outside the urban centres of the country, in Municipalities with populations below 100,000 inhabitants. In addition, 8 out of 9 Municipalities with PIOP Museums have lower per capita income in relation to the national average and lower number of employed per thousand inhabitants. The contribution of the museums to the economy is connected with their ability to attract visitors. In 2016 approximately 220,000 people visited the Museums of PIOP, noting an increase of 14.25% in relation to 2015. If the visitors of Chios Mastic Museum and Silversmithing Museum in Ioannina which opened for the public within 2016 are calculated this increase reaches 49.36%. With a conservative estimation of the catalytic impact, the operation of PIOP’s Museums leads to an increase of tourism revenues to the corresponding areas of the country by at least €5.5 mn. In a more optimistic estimate of the catalytic impact, the increase of tourism revenues amounts to €11.3 mn. The total impact of the activities of the Museums to the GDP of the country, without taking into consideration the catalytic impact, reaches €4.3 mn, while in terms of employment it amounts to 103 job positions. In the conservative estimation of the catalytic impact, the total contribution of the Museums to the GDP of Greece transcends €13.4 mn, while in the optimistic estimation it reaches €23 mn. The total contribution of the Museums in the employment based on the conservative estimate of the catalytic impact reaches 345 jobs. In the more optimistic estimate, the respective contribution reaches 600 jobs. Finally, the Museums also contribute to the economy of the country during their construction. Using the most recent example of the Museum of Silversmithing, the total impact of its construction to the economy of the Municipality of Ioannina reached €7.8 mn in terms of GDP, and €10.6 mn for the whole country. In terms of employment the construction of the Museum led to the creation of 236 jobs in Ioannina and 284 jobs in all of Greece. 144 Sustainable Development Report Visitor Numbers at PIOP Museum Network 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 219,930 147,908 130,144 119,517 110,292 105,068 97,023 87,201 76,768 Historical Archive During 2016 the premises of the Historical Archive hosted 21 science meetings, 10 educational actions, 6 science exhibitions, 2 artistic events and 25 film screenings. Piraeus Bank Group is guided by a particular sense of responsibility in what regards the rescue and organising of archives that either come to its possession or are produced by it and which reflect economic and social aspects of the modern history of the country. The operation of the Historical Archive (HA) of PIOP supports the historical research and cultural production, serves current projects of the Group and is defined by: • t he modern principles of cultural management regarding historical archives that call for the provision of easy access and multiple services, as well as being friendly to the environment • the international experience and • the commitments of Corporate Social Responsibility of Piraeus Bank Group in the field of culture and in matters of transparency and social influence. The purpose of the operation of the Historical Archive is to promote the importance of preserving the memory of archival sources and the utilisation of the archival material from multiple recipient groups. The operation of the Historical Archive is not limited just in its use by research and academic teams but is addressed to the total of the academic and artistic community, the personnel of Piraeus Bank Group, the local communities and the wider public. In the indoor and the wide outdoor spaces of the building complex that houses the Historical Archive, several infrastructures have been included to perform various functions such as: banking history exhibition, scientific and general interest events (film screenings, periodic exhibitions, tours, presentations), life-long learning labs and creative activities for adults, educational programs relevant to the HA for children, as well as the pleasant caf ARHEION and a souvenir shop of PIOP. The Historical Archive of PIOP houses the archives of important Greek banks, which were absorbed by Piraeus Bank Group in the past, as well as archives of institutions and businesses that were connected with these during their historical course. It holds 7 bank archives, 5 archives of public economic organisations, 55 archives of businesses, 5 private archives and 2 archives of collective bodies. Through this material, a significant part of the economic (agricultural, industrial and banking) and social history of Greece in the 20th century is reconstructed. Basic institutions and structures of the Greek economy, the agricultural and industrial policy of the country for decades, important aspects of its banking system, the rehabilitation of refugees of the Asia Minor Catastrophe and the agricultural cooperative movement, the post-war foreign aid and it's management are some of the research topics that can be satisfied by delving into the Historical Archive of PIOP. Sectoral studies for basic productive sectors and services, individual aspects of the state economic policy, case studies of businesses, local and regional development studies, as well as history of the environment and local history and matters of history of employment are also included in the research of specialised researchers and of the general public. The central question one could address to the sum of the material kept in PIOP’s HA is that about the development of Greece in the 20th century, at the whole of its economy and its individual regions. The Historical Archive also keeps and manages, servicing relevant requests of the Group, a great part of the semi-active archive of the Group. The identified material surpasses 17,682 linear meters (at end of 2016) and is dated mainly from the 1920s. These documents, ledgers, stocks, maps, plans, photographic and audio-visual material, 3D objects, rare books and publications of special interest comprise the collections. The complete approach to the operation of the Historical Archive is based on the analytical mapping of those po146 Sustainable Development Report tentially benefited from it, with the main concern being to contribute to the diffusion of the historical culture to a wide spectrum of citizens. PIOP steadily seeks to increase its social influence with several means through the Historical Archive. The spaces of the HA accommodate: scientific meetings (thematic seminars, conferences, labs), open History lessons, educational programs for children, academic courses, educational visits, creative activities for adults, children and the elderly, life-long learning programs, artistic actions (theatre, visual arts, music), periodic exhibitions (economic/production history, visual arts), special screenings of audio-visual material from its collections or of historical/industrial documentaries with appropriate commentary, summer film screenings of a specific historical context, thematic tours, information events. Finally, the organising of events by third parties is supported. It is indicatively mentioned that those benefited from the operation of the Historical Archive of PIOP during 2016 surpassed 5,000 people (researchers and general public of various categories, according to the verification systems of reservations for the actions and of user satisfaction of the Archive). All the above make up the character of an archival cultural institution, that seeks to remain consistent (regarding goalsetting and the connection with the cultural reserve it holds) and distinct among its peers. Basic elements of the cultural management of its reserve are also the wide diffusion of knowledge, the complementarity of stimuli towards its recipients, the accessibility of its background and the implementation of international good practices (ISO Quality, Disaster Planning, EMAS Certification, insurance for cultural material) bringing HA in the forefront at national and European level. In detail, during 2016, distinct actions were performed in the following sets: Archival Work • Inventory of volume: the material surpasses 17,682 linear meters, which shows a 9% increase compared to the previous year, and a 76% increase compared to the beginning of HA’s reorganisation. • Management of Archives: A. Autopsy, clearing and receipt of semi-active and historical archive: 751.8 linear meters from 12,962 linear meters of initial volume and 2,911 designs, 29 packs of designs, 171 documents, 17 exhibits and B. Processing: 239,195 linear meters. • Organising of recording of archives/collections that was conducted before the reorganisation of relative works for the composition and issue of a complete catalogue of collections existing in PIOP’s Historical Archive. • Management of artefacts’ collection: 1,526 objects in total. • Completion of a data series/body of information. • Works for the preservation of paper material: a) interventional maintenance (179 documents, 55 books, 8 ledgers, 1 map, 11 photographs, 2 topographic plans, 1 architectural plan, 1 frame), b) initial rescue measures-storage (19 sub-files of exhibits from the Automobilebank ATE , 10 posters from the ATE collection, 16 exhibits). • User service: 150 requests (annual increase of 25%): 107 for the historical, 43 for the semi-active archive (mainly on behalf of ETVA Industrial Parks SA). The external researchers comprise two equally numbered teams of postgraduate students and mature researchers: the economic reconstruction of the country has priority in their searches, while some interest has been expressed regarding the issue of cooperatives, which from a geographical point of view was focused in Crete and Magnesia. • From the analysis of 635 questionnaires of the research project Your voice has value conducted in 2016, a 94.33% degree of satisfaction emerged (comments excellent and very good ). • Besides wifi access, enriched internal special library, and the special electronic library of scientific journals j-stor, the capability to access a series of selected historical titles relative to the history of Greece in the 20th century from caf ARHEION was added in the context of the promotion of History to a wider public. Sustainable Development Report 147 Data Mining • Update of the list of research topics covered by PIOP’s HA for the information of the academic and research community. •  Economic restructuring of post-war Greece with indicative subcategories: Economic restructuring of the Region of Magnesia , Archaeological reserve and economic restructuring , Health and interventionist state policies in post-war Greece and the first postwar years for the agricultural population , The development of tourism after the war etc. • History of production in Northern Greece. • Creation and constant update of research files regarding studies of productive sectors such as tourism, shipping, textile industry, flour milling industry or areas and themes such as the history of the environment, the cooperative agricultural movement and agricultural industries, for the production of relevant cultural products and the promotion of relevant co-operations with other institutions. • Validation of the history of the building complex in Tavros, based on written sources and oral testaments (Kronos Canning company, 1949-1961). • Scientific preparation (selection of themes/archival material) and pilot implementation of educational programs for children in relation to nature and the work of the HA with the goal of promoting familiarisation with matters of collective memory, history and the role of archival institutions. Events • Science meetings (14+7 events), seminars, conferences. •  History of the 20th century open courses, aiming at the strengthening of the historical culture of the targeted public. • Periodic science exhibitions in the context of scientific actions (6 events). • Artistic actions (visual art exhibitions-2 events, 1 theatrical show). • Screenings (25 in total; 14 special and 11 summer screenings). • Thematic tours of the general public and the Group’s personnel (10 events), accommodation in the spaces of the HA’s building complex of PIOP’s events. • Accommodation of events of third parties with use and content prerequisites. Education • Design of educational activities for schools: •  One day in the Archive , for students of primary and secondary Education, aiming at the familiarisation of students with historical sources, memory, history, archival science, conservation and the role of archival institutions, •  History from the Sources for primary, secondary schools, • Local history program, development of the educational package ( suitcase of the archive ) regarding local history and its subsequent sending to schools as well as distant realisation of similar educational actions. • Contribution to academic courses at undergraduate and postgraduate level (5 occasions, 192 people benefited). • Life-long learning actions (2 occasions, 140 people benefited). • Educational visits of academics and school communities (4 events, 130 beneficiaries). • Provision of practical training, of a 20-month total duration to 6 trainees. • Actions of creative activities for adults, families, elderly people (13 events, 467 beneficiaries). 148 Sustainable Development Report Library The operation of a Library specialised in matters of Museum Studies and cultural management, constitutes another main function of PIOP. In 2013 began the integration of the library of former ATEbank. Until the end of 2016, 100% of the collection’s material had been received, which mainly consists of bibliography on economics and agricultural matters. The Library of the Foundation has approximately 59,000 books (Greek and foreign) and more than 132,000 issues of periodical publications while it is being constantly enriched servicing the research and the academic communities. The acquisition of material (monographs, periodical publications, educational programs) is achieved through the purchase and exchange with similar institutions (in 2016 2,936 new titles were acquired and 14 subscriptions of foreign-language scientific journals were supported). The Library’s reading room offers wifi connection and free access to electronic databases containing scientific findings of completed research programs of PIOP: a) information regarding technology from Archives and Libraries of Venice (the result of a research program on technology in Greek regions under Venetian rule, in cooperation with the Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies of Venice), b) Greek musical instruments (the result of a research program in cooperation with the Department of Music Iconography of the School of Fine Arts of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki). Since July 2014 PIOP’s Library participates in the Hellenic Economic Library Network (HELIN). In this context, in 2016 there was a cycle of lectures organised regarding economic matters for Libraries. The users of the Library can have access to part of its catalogue electronically, visit its premises and participate in actions it organises (seminars, educational programs, theatre shows and workshops for children and adults). PIOP’s Library is a lending library only for the personnel of Piraeus Group, while within the year the existing cooperation with the Kallithea Public Library has been expanded in order that the latter can lend books to the Group’s employees. The Library also implements, as a permanent educational activity, the narration of children’s books of PIOP’s publications by external theatre educator, with the title Every Thursday PIOP’s children’s books become alive in the Library . More specifically: a) The olive’s tears , a folk tale from Samos, illustrated by Diatsenta Parissi and aimed at primary school children groups (kindergarten, 1st-3rd grade), b) The stone ship of Aliki Balaska, illustrated by Dimitris Fousekis, aimed at primary school children groups (kindergarten, 1st-3rd grade), c) A girl hovers in Kerameikos. An anti-war story in the Athens of Classical times by Christos Boulotis, illustrated by Vasilis Papatsarouchas, aimed at primary school children groups (4th-6th grade), d) Alexandra, Pavlos and the mystery of Lake Stymphalia by Sophia Kalantzakou, illustrated by Spiros Goussis and aimed at primary school children groups (3rd-6th grade). The need to serve another section of the reading public, namely that of the children between the ages of 4 and 12 years, led to the decision to create a children’s reading room (renovation of the space, books’ purchase) for the realisation of educational programs. The children’s book writing and illustration competition for adults was a special interest action completed with the publication of the award winning book into an e-book format and the theatrical presentation of the text by the Bank’s Amateur Theatrical Group (cooperation with the Human Resources – Organisational Learning of the Group). The total number of beneficiaries of the PIOP Library for 2016 (readers, distant users, loans, educational programs, small scale actions and cooperative actions) exceeds 10,000 people. Publications Publications covering a wide range of research fields, such as history of technology, industrial archaeology, museological studies, cultural landscapes, historical centres, intangible heritage, economic history, constitute a PIOP’s activity of defining importance. At the same time, PIOP’s publications especially support the character and actions of the thematic technological Museum Network, while they often stem from research programs of the Foundation that have been completed, or/and from others that are in progress or are being presented to the research and general public. They also include submitted research projects which are aligned with the above themes, with the provision they are within the framework of the Foundation’s statutory goals. The appeal of PIOP’s publications in the scientific world is expressed by their selection as university textbooks, albeit the popularised publications still remain important. During 2016, 5 printed publications, 1 electronic edition and 8 printed works were circulated: • Dionysis A. Zivas, Architectural Guide to Athens ( Historical Centres series). •  Aspects of intangible cultural heritage in Chios , science editor Villy Fotopoulou, (edition in the context of NSRF for the Chios Mastic Museum). Sustainable Development Report 149 Stakeholders in the PIOP Historical Archive’s Operation Research Community Educational Community Artistic Community Piraeus Bank Group Employees Local Communities Academic Community PIOP Historical Archive General Public •  Silversmithing in Epirus , science editors Giota Oikonomaki Papadopoulou, Varvara Papadopoulou (edition in the context of NSRF for the Silversmithing Museum in Ioannina). • Maria Klini, The tiny book that wanted to be read , illustrated by Konstantina Brinia (publishing series Tales ; the e-book publication of the tale that won the first prize in the children’s book writing and illustration competition for adults organised by PIOP’s Library and the Kallithea Public Library). •  Keeping the history of production alive. Museum Network of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (bilingual publication in the publishing series Our Museums ). •  Museum and museology studies: A full guide , science editor Sharon MacDonald ( Museology publication series), first reprint edition. • In parallel, the possibility of integrating collective works that constitute basic textbooks of international bibliography in the three new thematic axes of PIOP is constantly assessed. These axes are: Intangible Cultural Heritage, Cultural Landscapes and Historical Centres. Research Work The production of research work constitutes the support basis of the threefold action of PIOP: research, exhibition, publication . The work is designed along several scientific disciplines and holds the competitive advantage of the long, totally distinct and specialised experience of the Foundation in matters of specific research themes and the development of relative innovation. The results of the research work are utilised in: • the creation of thematic technological museums, • the enrichment of museum collections, • the organisation of exhibitions, • the publication of studies, often setting the basis for bibliography, • the creation of tools for the promotion of local economies, • the digitisation of scientific findings that contribute to the furtherance of research and • the contribution of the Foundation to national-scale interventions on behalf of Greece, in cooperation with esteemed institutions. Regarding the themes of the research, emphasis is given on traditional technology, the management of the country’s natural resources, the tangible and intangible cultural heritage of the recent past. During 2016 the following were realised: • F urther utilisation of the already accumulated research reserve, of the scientific specialisation of the personnel, and of its networking in the research community for the production of multiple cultural products in the service of schools, research, professional and local communities. • Capitalisation of PIOP’s research reserve and promotion of it to the general public for the benefit of local communities and the wider research community. • Realisation of a research program for the classification, recording and mapping of cultural landscapes in the protected areas of the NATURA 2000 network. • Realisation of a research program with the object of recording and mapping the cultural landscape of the Lake Stymphalia area for the period of the last 35 years. The material of the program will be integrated in a geographical information system (public domain). The program is expected to be completed in February 2017. • A framework for the digital strategy of PIOP and specifically a digitisation plan of the research projects of the Foundation. Sustainable Development Report 151 • A  research program for the economic history of Thessaloniki, aiming at the preparation of an exhibition at the Convention Centre of Piraeus Bank. The action is integrated in the strategic plan of PIOP for the business utilisation of the cultural surplus value produced in Thessaloniki and the creation of a business hub. Scientific – Advisory Support The collaborations with third parties and the provision of scientific advisory support to national and public institutions, local authorities, educational units, Environmental Education Centres (EEC), young scientists, researchers and doctoral candidates upon request help the preparation of cultural actions and goods and reinforce projects related to the themes of PIOP. During 2016 the following were achieved: • C  ollaboration with the National Theatre for the production of shows of the theatre play The Clock by Menelaos Lountemis for school groups and the general public at the Museums of the Foundation as well as summer workshops of one-week duration. • Collaboration with the Athens State Orchestra for the realisation of concerts with musical ensembles and organising of music workshops with local authorities. • Collaboration with the Museum of Cycladic Art and the University of the Aegean for the organisation of a two-day educational action titled The marble yesterday and today , with the support of the Municipality of Tinos. • Collaboration with the Laconian Federation of Sydney and participation of PIOP in the Leonidia 2016 , under the auspices of Dr. Stavros Kirimis, Consul General of Greece. • Co-organising of the annual meeting of the European Museum Academy (EMA) and the award ceremony of Luigi Micheletti Awards, DASA, and Heritage in Motion, at the Museum of Industrial Olive-Oil Production in Lesvos. The awards constitute one of the most important international distinctions for innovative museums in the field of technology and sciences. • With the initiative of PIOP the 1st Sculpture Symposium, was organised in Tinos, at the Museum of Marble Crafts, during 17 July-3 August 2016. The Symposium was coorganised by PIOP and the South Aegean Prefecture, with the support of the Tinos Municipality, under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture & Sports. • The Holy Metropolis of Ioannina, the Municipality of Ioannina and PIOP co-organised the temporary exhibition When art becomes sacred , at the Silversmithing Museum, featuring rare ecclesiastical silversmithing works. The exhibition was inaugurated on the 21st of December 2016 and constitutes a continuation of the highly successful exhibition The art of silver of Ioannina , hosted at Moscow’s New Jerusalem Museum in the context of the Year of Greece and Russia 2016. • Collaboration of PIOP with the Hellenic Film Academy to organise an event in the context of the Panorama Les Nuits en Or action, which is planned by the Hellenic Film Academy in cooperation with the French Academy of Cinema Arts and Techniques (Academie des Arts et Techniques du Cinema), under the auspices of UNESCO. It is a film festival that was accommodated at the Onassis Cultural Centre (7-8 June) where the best international short films were screened. • Co-organisation of a Scientific Conference, with the title Landscapes of MacedoniaThrace: National Parks and Wetlands . On the occasion of celebrating the International Museum Day with the topic of Museums and Cultural Landscapes , the two-day event 152 Sustainable Development Report took place with the support of the environment management institutions of Nestos Delta Vistonidas – Ismarida, Axios-Loudias-Aliakmonas Delta, Rodopi Mountain Range National Park and Dadia-Lefkimi-Soufli Forest National Park, at the Piraeus Bank Convention Centre in Thessaloniki, with the goal of promoting important issues that regard the management, the protection and the safeguarding but also the aesthetic and environmental value of these wetlands and National Parks. • Publication titled A new model for linking heritage protection and sustainable local development – an assessment of the regional network of seven Thematic Museums of the Cultural Foundation of the Piraeus Bank in Greece , Cartalis C., Vlachou E., pp 493 – 7, in M. di Stefano (ed) 18th ICOMOS General Assembly. Symposium Heritage and Landscape as Human Values Conference proceedings. Florence, ICOMOS. • Seminar titled Museums-Cultural Heritage in the context of the Cultural Workshop of the Panteion University, Department of Communication, Media & Culture, 3rd year, CultureCultural Management orientation. • Seminar titled Cultural Landscapes: the personal view of the photographer , with photographer Platon Rivellis, in six Museums of the Network, in the context of celebrating the International Museum Day with the theme: Museums and Cultural Landscapes . • Student practice: a) one student of the Department of Social Anthropology and History of the University of the Aegean at the Museum of Industrial Olive-Oil Production in Lesvos, b) three students of the University of Kent in collaboration with the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens at the Mastic Museum in Chios, and c) 86 students of the University of Brighton for the recording of biodiversity in Lake Styphalia. • Provision of scientific advisory support regarding the compilation of archives (archival works-material conservation) and the design of extraverted cultural units/organisation of cultural-educational activities, upon request towards institutions, companies, social partners and private individuals. • More specifically, the Historical Archive: a) provided practical training of a 20-month total duration to 6 trainees, b) realised actions of creative activities for adults, families, the elderly with 467 beneficiaries. Education The realisation of educational actions for life-long learning at the Museums and its premises in Athens is a basic axis of PIOP’s operation. PIOP realises life-long learning educational actions at its Museums and premises in Athens For the fourth consecutive year, the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation provided educational programs to schools in Attica (primary and secondary education). The Educational programs of PIOP are designed in-house by specialised scientists or archaeologists-museologists with specialisation in Museum education, historians and specialists in information technology, on occasion in cooperation with external collaborators. These programs which contribute to the enrichment and furtherance of educational goals and are original and innovative, serve the educational and pedagogical purposes of the Curriculum by adding depth, by broadening the pedagogical goals at all levels, by promoting meaningful and scientifically sound knowledge and by suggesting relevant bibliography. The sources used include primary historical sources, archival material, exhibits of the collections of PIOP’s Museums, relevant bibliography, articles and collections, maps, photographs, topographic and architectural designs, oral testaments Sustainable Development Report 153 and traditions, works of art, literature works, travel documents, songs, films, excerpts from the Press, pages from school books, websites and selected internet sources. Based on this material, specific existing needs are served, while in parallel there exists an interthematic connection with the knowledge objects-courses of the school, and in addition the capability is provided of utilising added information sources, through PIOP’s publications and the specially designed educational folders that accompany some of the programs, which are available for free to schools that will utilise them. In the educational programs of PIOP, the recommended methodological techniques for students are adapted accordingly, in order that they work in teams, depending on their inclinations and interests, while it is emphasised that the participation of students at all levels of the procedure is experiential-energetic, creative and not passive. The educational programs are offered for free and are carried out as educational visits of the students to the head offices of the Foundation, to the Historical Archive, the Library and the Museums of the Network. The total number of participants in educational actions, in Athens, Thessaloniki, and the Museums of the Network reached 23,285. However, school groups are not the only target groups of the educational actions of PIOP. • W  ith a view to socially vulnerable groups, PIOP welcomed at its head offices, teenagers who stay at the Elliniko Refugee Centre. The action was realised in cooperation with the Network for Children’s Rights and was repeated twice within December 2016 with teenagers who stay at the Refugee Hospitality Centre at Schisto. • On the 22nd of December, the Second Chance School of Agioi Anargyroi (OKANA) visited PIOP. The adults, students of secondary education, while on rehabilitation from substances, completed the educational program Drawing the poems . • In 2016, the pilot life-long training of adults was inaugurated with two seminars; one in artisanal handicraft and one in creative writing, on a monthly basis, with exceptionally praising comments from the approximately 50 participants. • Finally, at the head offices of PIOP, a training seminar was completed for the executives of the Museum Service and the welcoming personnel of the Museum Network, titled Museum and people with disabilities: Forms and means of communication with accessibility conditions , from the specialised collaborators in Special Education. Participation in National and International Scientific Institutions – Partnerships Participation in national and international scientific and educational institutions constitutes a basic activity of PIOP with the following goals: • T he contribution to the shaping of cultural policies (participation in Conferences/lectures/ speeches by PIOP executives in scientific forums, participation in actions organised by the Ministry of Culture and Sports, collaboration with the NSRF framework, participation of executives of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs in PIOP Museum Monitoring Committees, collaboration with the Committee of Business Archives of the Society of Greek Archivists-SGA). • The participation of the Chairman of PIOP in the Museums Council and of the Director of PIOP in the National Commission of Intangible Cultural Heritage of the Ministry of Culture and Sports. • The participation of PIOP in consortiums of research and academic institutions for the submission of European scientific programs: a) WAYS TO GO , in the context of the call H2020-SC6-CULT-COOP-8-2016 Virtual museums and social platform on Europe and digital heritage, memory, identity and cultural interaction of the European funding program Horizon 2020, b) European Museums on the Radio , in the context of the call EACEA/45/2016 Support to European cooperation projects of the European Commission, c) Cultural Landscapes in NATURA 2000 protected areas: An integrated tool for 154 Sustainable Development Report management, valorisation and economic sustainability , which was submitted in the context of Interreg 2014-2020 Adriatic – Ionian. • The international networking of PIOP with international scientific institutions, associations and European networks with the goals of knowledge transfer, the diffusion of good practises, the scientific collaboration and to seek out funding of common projects: (UNESCO, TICCIH, ICOM Greece, ICOMOS, TIMS, European Museum Academy, European Association for Banking and Financial History e.V. (EABH), International Council on Archives, Business Archives Council, Society of Greek Archivists, General State Archives, European Association for Environmental History, National Council on Public History, European Rural History Organisation, Digital Research Infrastructure for the Arts & Humanities – DARIAH etc) and other European networks. • The participation of a PIOP executive as a member, in the European Museum Academy Task Force 2020. In addition, PIOP executives gave speeches at national and international forums: • Conservation matters of the archival reserve of the Historical Archive of PIOP , seminar Diagnosis and conservation issues of paper material , co-organised by PIOP, the Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Advanced Research Technologies for Art Investigation & Conservation ARTICON , the Historical Archive of Macedonia with the support of the Research Committee of the Technological Educational Institute of Athens, Thessaloniki 26.02.2016. •  Historical Archive of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation: enrichment and extraversion of an archival organisation , in the seminar The Historical Archive of the Lyceum of Greek Women in the digital age , Athens 29.03.2016. •  The Historical Archive of PIOP as source for the history of the Greek landscape: interventions and transformations , two-day seminar Historical and cultural landscape: interventions and management, prevention and transformations Athens 3-4 November 2016. • Speech entitled: The Museum Network of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation: A managerial shape with multiple applications in the context of the seminar Museum recognition: museums speak for museums organised by the Ministry of Culture and Sports at the Acropolis Museum. • Speech entitled: Museums as factor of local cultural, tourist and social development: The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation experiences in the context of the seminar Forum of Slavic Cultures & European Museum Academy , 10th International Summer School of Museology at Piran. • Speech entitled: Protection and promotion of the industrial heritage: the Museum Network of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation , in the context of the Interdepartmental Postgraduate Program of Museology of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. Contact and Networking with Institutions in Local Societies Silk Museum in Soufli: •  Thread of Life Association of Friends of People with Special Needs of Soufli region, Center for Differential Diagnosis, Diagnosis and Support (KE.D.D.Y.) of Evros Prefecture. Organising of a musical performance from the musical ensemble En Chordais entitled Sustainable Development Report 155 The tale of music on the occasion of the International Day of People with Disability. • Directorate of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary of the Prefecture of Evros. Museum of Industrial Olive-Oil Production in Agia Paraskevi, Lesvos: • Ephorate of Antiquities of Lesvos. • Lesvos Museum Network. Museum of Marble Crafts in Pyrgos, Tinos: • Tinos Association for People with Special Needs We have a right . • Municipality of Tinos and Cultural Association. • Cultural Foundation of Tinos. Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas in Volos: • University of Thessaly: Seminar on the occasion of celebrating the International Museum Day with the theme Museums and Cultural Landscapes . • Ephorate of Antiquities of Magnesia: Pilot educational program for children in primary education. • Networking with local professional and cultural institutions. Environment Museum of Stymphalia: • F rom PIOP to the Volunteers Samaritans, Rescuers and Lifeguards Corps of the Hellenic Red Cross, Branch of Korinthos: Donation of equipment, purchase of a training automatic external defibrillator. • Co-organisation with the Municipality of Sikyon of the race Stymphalia Lake Run 2016 . Chios Mastic Museum: • Chios Choir Activities Workshop for the elderly. Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil in Sparta: • S parta Photography Club: Offering free participation to 25 members of the Sparta Photography Club for the photography seminar of Platon Rivellis. • Holy Metropolis of Monemvasia and Sparta: Donation of Easter eggs for the action We dye Easter eggs for those who cannot of the Hospice for People with Incurable Diseases of the Holy Metropolis of Monemvasia and Sparta. • Astronomical Union of Sparta: co-organisation of the Stargazing Night that took place at the Museum of Olive and Greek Olive-Oil in the context of celebrating the European Museums Night. • Sparta Municipality: a) International Association SPARTATHLON: Making of the olive wreaths for Spartathletes of the SPARTATHLON 2016 by Primary school teams at the Museum of Olive and Greek Olive-Oil, b) Legal Entity of Culture and Environment of Sparta Municipality. • Prefecture of Laconia, National Conservatory Sparta, Laconia Agricultural Cooperatives Union: Co-organisation of music philology event As a fruit-bearing olive tree , in the context of celebrating the European Music Day. Historical Archive • The activity of the Historical Archive is addressed at the Athenian public, the further 156 Sustainable Development Report attraction of which is sought after with the annual thematic summer action The Athinai . In this context the synergy with Athenian and other archival cultural institutions is pursued. • At the level of targeted local communities, the Historical Archive: a) seeks constant communication with institutions and school communities of the Municipality of MoschatoTavros, b) planned the action titled The Archive at the Museums for PIOP’s Network of Museums, with the production of cultural actions regarding local history and local interests of each community, and c) completed in the context of the cooperation of Piraeus Bank Group with the Team Aegean, the first intervention of a long-term local history cultural action with the title Our Archive and the annual action A thousand children in the honest wind (visual arts, exhibition, publication) with small island local communities of Cyclades and the Dodecanese being the beneficiaries. PIOP Actions in Thessaloniki: In the framework of the Foundation’s actions aimed at preserving and promoting cultural heritage, in 2015 the decision was made to expand PIOP’s actions to Thessaloniki, in collaboration with the Convention Centre of Piraeus Bank, through the organising of selected events and training programs at the premises of the Centre. The following events were held in 2016: • Educational Program The 7 keys of our production history in an original interactive game . This program was transferred to the Science Centre & Technology Museum NOESIS in Thessaloniki on October 25 till June 2016. It will be transferred in the Eugenides Foundation in Athens in 2017. • Educational Programs for children at the Convention Centre of Piraeus Bank: 5 educational programs were organised with the participation of 1,463 students. • Educational and recreational actions for children: 21 actions were realised with 2,377 participants. • Actions for the adult public: 8 actions organised with 776 participants. • 4 actions of third parties were accommodated, which were attended by 545 people. Indicatively a) two presentations of the book What should we do, what, to save the water? by Katerina Lalioti, b) presentation of Georgia Latta’s book Bread with sugar and salt , c) music event Traveling with Tango on the occasion of the International Day of Music and Summer Solstice. • Realisation of actions from the Historical Archive of PIOP: a) The post-war economic restructuring of Greece through the Historical Archive of PIOP , b) Matters of diagnosis and conservation of paper-based material , c) The industrial heritage of Northern Greece. Evaluation and prospects , d) ETVA presents…exhibits of industrial history , e) General International Standard Archival Description ISAD(G), Workshop of application and understanding . 2017 Key Targets PIOP’s key target for the immediate future remains to be the further dissemination of its work to multiple public groups, in accordance with Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility Principles. Sustainable Development Report 157 The coordinated realisation of high quality actions in the Greek periphery will continue as these actions support local communities from a cultural and an economic perspective, with the creation of centres of attraction for tourists. Similar actions addressed at a wide spectrum of groups/recipients will continue to be organised at the Historical Archive and the Library of the Foundation in Athens as well as at the Convention Centre of Piraeus Bank and in other spaces in Thessaloniki. The exhibition that is planned for the economic history of Thessaloniki, will be of great importance for the city, on the occasion of remembering the Great Fire of 2017 that changed the face of the city’s centre. The strategic goal of PIOP is to mobilise the productive forces of the city, in the fields of creative and cultural industries, and the creation of a business hub with the Convention Centre of Piraeus Bank at its centre. The general goals of PIOP for 2017 are: • E nhancement of PIOP’s extraversion and contribution to the cultural and broader development of Greece with the support of cultural and creative industries and modern culture as well as by organising combined cultural, scientific and environmental actions. • Improvement of the quality of services provided to Museum visitors and the users of PIOP’s Library and Historical Archive. • Participation in the shaping of policies in the field of culture. • Realisation of actions in the context of the thematic axis Museums – Daily Places . • Realisation of the Project LIFE-Stymphalia of Piraeus Bank and the European Program HORIZON 2020 Pluggy, in the sections that concern PIOP. • Reinforcement of entrepreneurship in the field of Creative – Cultural Industries. More specifically per field of action: Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage • P  romotion and utilisation of the cultural heritage of the country with the goal of inscribing new elements on the catalogue of Intangible Cultural Heritage of UNESCO. • Connection of culture with the environment. • Recording, protection and promotion of cultural landscapes and the intangible cultural heritage. • Strategic partnerships with institutions in Greece and abroad. Network of Museums • Increase of the number of visitors to the Museums of the Network through the increase and enrichment of the various cultural/educational actions that take place in the Museums. • Improvement of the quality of provided services to the visitors. • Operation of the Museums as open, daily spaces of cultural creation and active participation of them in the cultural and social life of the cities that accommodate them. • Support of cultural tourism and cultural entrepreneurship in the areas of PIOP’s Network of Museums. • Development of technological applications in the Museums with the goal of enriching their narrative mediums. • Support of modern Greek creation and organisation of exhibitions, various educational actions and cultural events. 158 Sustainable Development Report Historical Archive • O  peration of the HA as an archival institution with multiple beneficiaries, increase of their number, and furtherance of it, as a multipurpose space of culture, in the cultural map of Athens. • Increase of the volume of processed collections and of the applications for their digital copy provision. • Increase of the promoted and utilised collections to the research and general public. Library • C  apitalisation on and continuation of the collaboration of the Library with local institutions, with participation in partnerships and events. • Increase of the number of visitors-users. Publications • C  ontinuation of the publishing work of the Foundation, with works that cover a wide range of research fields and support the character and actions of the thematic technological Museums Network. • Promotion of publications through targeted actions. • Scientific yearbook by PIOP (annual electronic edition) titled Development of Greece in the 20th Century . Research Work • Creation of new research reserve, capitalisation and promotion of it to broad groups of the public. • Development of an information system for the digital inventory of the results of all research projects by PIOP as well as of a digital strategy plan of PIOP. • Recording, protection and promotion of the cultural landscapes and the intangible cultural heritage of the country. • Development of digital applications for the promotion of the cultural heritage and the natural environment. • Scientific advisory support. Education • R  ealisation of life-long educational actions at the Museums and its premises in Athens and Thessaloniki. • Awareness-raising and education of the public on matters of culture and the environment. Sustainable Development Report 159 Participation in national, international scientific and educational institutions – collaborations • S trategic partnerships with esteemed institutions for the realisation of events and actions in Athens, Thessaloniki and the PIOP Museum Network in the Greek periphery. • Realisation of the partnership with the Eugenides Foundation, through the co-organisation of the interactive technological exhibition 7 Keys . • Preparation and submission of proposals to national and European co-funded programs for the financing of PIOP actions as well as participation in European consortiums for the realisation of actions related to the statutory objectives of the Foundation. • Pursuit of European cooperation for the comparative study of the restructuring of the post-war European economy. 160 Sustainable Development Report Financial selected volumes and results of PIOP (in mn euro) 2014 2015 2016 Α: 2.7 Β: 8.1 Α: 0.6 Β: 5.0 Α: 2.8 Β: 6.4 C: 17.1 C: 17.1 C: 14.4 D: 17.8 D: 17.7 D: 15.3 A: Retained earnings B: Turnover C: Equity D: Assets Environmental Actions Environmental Dimension The environmental policy and strategy of Piraeus Bank Group in combination with the commitment of the Top Management, set the framework and constitute the driving force for the development of programs that reduce the environmental footprint from the Bank’s operation and strengthen the investments in technologies and practices that reduce the greenhouse gas emissions. The reduction of carbon footprint within the Bank leads to significant reduction of operating cost. In addition, the recent application of an integrated system of Environmental and Social Management (ESMS) for projects financed by the Bank aims to reduce the environmental/social risk from its business clients. Aiming constantly at the updating and improvement of its policies, the Group has proceeded in the drafting of a Sustainability Policy that is based on existing principles, policies and strategies of the Group and is in accordance with international demands. In 2016, the structure and operation of an integrated Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) was approved. The application of the System to business financing evaluation procedures, allows the Bank to recognise and finally reduce the environmental and social risk that stems from it. The System frames the existing procedure of feasibility studies of the sustainability of green investment plans of the Bank, which has already been integrated in the Credit Policy since 2014. Piraeus Bank Group responds to the international challenges that derive from climate change and the loss of biodiversity. The strategy of the Group for climate change, that following the decisions of the Paris Conference 2015 acquires greater dynamic, and the protection of biodiversity, as it is expressed in the Corporate Responsibility Principles constitute conscious choices for sustainable development. The Bank is participating in the shaping of a European strategy for biodiversity and business, is a member of the Business & Biodiversity Platform of the European Union and the EU Community of Practice Finance and Biodiversity (EUCoP F@B). According to its Credit Policy, the Bank pays special attention when it funds investments in NATURA 2000 areas. Since 2011 the Environmental Management System (EMS) of the Bank is certified under EMAS. The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation is since 2014 the first cultural foundation with an EMS certified under EMAS, for the total of its 9 thematic Museums as well as for its other buildings. Since 2016, two Industrial Parks of ETVA VIPE, in Komotini and Lamia, have an EMS certified under ISO 14001:2004. Piraeus Bank Group Environmental Structure The Group created the necessary infrastructure, beginning in 2004 with the Environment Unit and since 2009 with the Green Banking Division, for the design and realisation of environmental strategic programs. The organisational structure was shaped in this way to allow on the one hand for the management of the environmental footprint of the Bank from the operation and its business activities, and on the other hand for the strengthening of green entrepreneurship in Greece, in collaboration with the subsidiaries ETVA VIPE SA and Centre of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi SA. With this structure the Group has the capability to integrate environmental and social criteria in the operation procedures and finance investments with added value. Monitoring and Analysis of Environmental Legislation and Case-Law The subject-specific Database on Environmental Legislation and Case Law (DEL&CL) that has been developed by Piraeus Bank constitutes an innovative tool for legal research and analysis. The DEL&CL provides a systematic framework for organizing specialized legal support to the implementation of Piraeus Bank Group’s Environmental Policy and compliance with applicable environmental legal requirements. The DEL&CL includes the necessary legal information and documentation as well as numerous legal opinions on specific implementation issues. The main pillars of the Database consist of: a) general obligations and trends of the law for the environment and sustainable development, b) provisions for preventing and reducing operational environmental impacts, c) the legal framework related to the wide-ranging actions undertaken by the Bank for mitigating its business environmental impacts, as well as d) detailed and explanatory content lists. Thus, the DEL&CL covers a very broad field of thematic issues, ranging from the detailed review of legal requirements on alternative treatment processes for (product-related) waste streams to the analysis of the ways in which financial institutions are gradually invited to contribute to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate and the Convention on Biological Diversity. The DEL&CL has been developed and is constantly updated by a specialized lawyer, legal advisor on environmental law issues; the Database is also presented in the Guide of UNEP FI Guide to Banking and Sustainability (2016), Edition 2, as practice illustration of the legal approach towards promoting compliance with environmental legislation. 162 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Key Targets Environmental Management Annual Targets • 2% reduction in total electricity consumption per unit area • 2% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions per unit area • 3% reduction of total paper consumption per employee • 2% reduction of water consumption per employee • 3% increase in paper and ink cartridge/toner recycling per employee • 10% increase in electrical and electronic equipment recycling5 • Ensuring guarantees of origin for the 100% of electricity consumption in the buildings of the Bank. Other Targets • 10%6 reduction of the total greenhouse gas emissions (in absolute figures) (five-year target with base year 2014) • 5% of the total electricity consumption in the Bank's branches will be produced from photovoltaic systems through energy net-metering (two-year target with base year 2016) • 3% increase in the use of environmentally certified paper consumables in relation to the total quantity of paper consumed (two-year target with base year 2016) • 8% reduction of electricity consumption per square meter in the Bank's buildings that have been integrated in the energy management program (three-year target with base year 2016). Biodiversity and Environment • In the context of the LIFE-Stymfalia project and after the completion of the 1st pilot and 2nd research reed-bed cutting in the Lake, the goals are to continue cutting reeds to pilot the production compost and pellet from the Lake’s reeds and agricultural waste of the area. • Completion of implementation of technical works and interventions for the regulation of the water level of the Lake. • Visits to the environmental interpretation path and the bird-watching hide. • Finalisation of a business plan research for the refinancing of the Lake’s management. • Circulation in schools of an educational toolkit for Stymphalia. • Organising of a two-day international conference for LIFE-Stymfalia. • Completion of educational seminars for the Farmers Network. Environmental Management Environmental Management System (EMS) Piraeus Bank, in the context of its commitment for constant reduction of the environmental impacts from its operation, has developed and implements an Environmental Management System (EMS) in all its Branches and Administration Buildings. Since 2011 the EMS of the Bank is certified according to the Regulation Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) of the European Union and the standard ISO 14001:2004. EMS provides a complete framework for the recording, monitoring and reduction of the environmental impacts connected to the operation of infrastructures and activities of a big organisation. 5 The target concerns the total of the Bank’s infrastructures except warehouses. 6 Revision of the target as it has already been achieved. Sustainable Development Report 163 With over 700 buildings and more than 1,000 directly involved employees in the EMS, Piraeus Bank is one of the largest organisations in Europe to implement such a strict standard of environmental management. Through the procedures of EMS, the environmental impacts of the Bank is monitored systematically, while on an annual basis each impact is evaluated regarding its importance, taking into consideration specific parameters. Automated Procedures and Applications of the EMS For the integrated management of the environmental data (in total over 400,000 entries annually), an Environmental Footprint Database has been created; an innovative tool that was developed according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative, as well as the automated procedure Environmental Management in the workflow APPIAN application. Through the Environmental Footprint Database the sum of the environmental impacts from the operation of the Bank is calculated, with a scientifically validated methodology. The application offers the capability to monitor the environmental performance of every building separately, such as the energy consumption or other natural resources. Through the procedure Environmental Management the intergrated management of environmental data of every Organisational Unit of the Bank is possible, in a systematic way. Since 2016, the data input to the application for the Calculation of the Environmental Footprint is being completed automatically and more reliably, directly from the Organisational Units. Environmental Programs Piraeus Bank implements programs for energy saving in buildings, for the reduction of gas emissions (from employee transportation, heating fuel consumption etc), for solid waste management, for paper and consumables saving (paper, ink cartridges, toner etc), that aim at the constant improvement of its environmental performance. Through the implementation of environmental programs, Piraeus Bank has reduced, since 2008, its consumption of electricity and its carbon dioxide emissions per employee by 32% and 36% respectively, while each year the net benefit in operational expenses corresponds to at least €5 mn. In 2016 two new programs were designed and implemented Green Tips – Instructions to save energy Green Tips , the poster with energy saving instructions, has been placed in all Branches and Administration Buildings of the Bank all over Greece. The program aims to inform the employees and the general public about reducing electricity consumption. Placement of bicycle stands (parking) Following a study and after all necessary permits were given, bicycle parking stands were placed at three buildings of the Bank; an environmental program for the awareness of the human resources and the general public about environmentally friendly transportation. The program will be expanded in 2017. Green Procurement True to its commitment to support green supplies, Piraeus Bank continued in 2016 the relevant programs that began in the previous year. A great portion of the customer information documents is printed on paper that originates from sustainably managed forests, certified under FSC7 (Forest Stewardship Council). Specifically, more that 15 mn statements (66 tonnes) were printed in 2016 on certified paper. The FSC certification provides the connection between sustainable forest management and consumption of products that derive from them (timber, paper) promoting an environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial and economically sustainable management of the planet’s forests. The procurement and use of environmentally friendly cleaning products also continued, with the recognised by the European Union environmental certification Eco-Label, in five Management Buildings of the Bank and in the offices of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. The program is expected to be expanded in 2017, giving priority to larger buildings. The goal of the program is to inform and sensitise employees regarding green supplies and to reduce the environmental impact of the Bank. 7 FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). Its mission is to make sure that the management of forests is exercised in a responsible and proper manner in order to protect the natural habitats and to respect and safeguard the rights of local communities. 164 Sustainable Development Report Awareness Campaign for the Environmental Management System Piraeus Bank, with the active participation of its employees, constantly reduces the environmental impact from its operation. Seeking to inform its employees and the general public about the environmental management in Piraeus Bank, in 2016 a campaign was designed that is expected to continue in the next year. The campaign includes posters and cards placed in buildings and Branches, as well as office material and an information leaflet distributed to the employees during their training. Energy Consumption The energy sources used for the activities of the Bank are mainly: electricity, oil for heating, and fuel for the transportation of the personnel in its professional and educational activities. Electricity is consumed in all building infrastructures for lighting, the operation of electrical and electronic equipment, air-conditioning, while in most buildings for heating as well. The consumption of electricity constitutes the environmental aspect of the Bank with the most significant environmental impact. Consequently, every year several programs are implemented to limit these impacts, while goals are set, such as the constant energy monitoring of existing and renovated buildings, with the adoption of energy efficient technologies. More specifically, for 2016, renovations and energy upgrade works were designed and implemented in 70 buildings of the Bank by the Technical Projects & Administration Support Unit with the most important of them being: • Replacement of common aluminum glazing panels with thermal break panels • Thermal insulation of rooftops • Installation of motion sensors in WCs. • Installation of controlled water flow faucets in WCs. • Installation of BEMS energy-management systems. • Installation of VAM heat pump exchanger for overnight cooling. • Replacement of high consumption lighting bulbs with LED light bulbs. Energy Office Piraeus Bank proceeded with the creation of the Energy Office; an energy saving environmental program. Through the Energy Office and a special software, the energy and water consumption in more than 200 buildings are monitored constantly and in real time. With the use of algorithms and automations and taking into consideration the energy profile of each Branch separately, the improvement of its energy behaviour is possible. The most important features of the software are: • C  apability to compare with the use of graphs the energy behaviour among Branches, based on criteria such as geographical location, climatic zone, Branch size etc. • Capability to present environmental indices and performance in the form of graphs and inforgraphics for the information of all involved employees. • Fast and user-friendly analysis of data of different time periods and different loads among them. • Monitoring and grouping of alarms and events, depending on their significance, through the creation of automated reports which are sent to authorised users per category of malfunction. • Production of Energy Reports per building or per building-category in relation to their energy behaviour, as well as presentation of alarms that arose in these during the period of the report. Sustainable Development Report 165 The Energy Office has significant environmental and social benefits: • F urther reduction of the Environmental Footprint of the Bank due to targeted actions. • Improvement of the conditions of thermal comfort at Branches all over Greece, taking into consideration the climatic climatic zones of each area. • Capability of prompt diagnosis of excessive energy consumption as well as diagnosis of malfunctions in the equipment of building complexes. • Raising awareness of Bank's employees and customers through the use of graphs and data presented on projection screens in Branches and Management Buildings. In December 2016, at the Environmental Awards 2016 ceremony, organised by Boussias Communication, the software received the highest distinction with the Gold Award in the category Energy Mastering – Energy Efficiency . Energy Saving – Replacement of Central Chillers In April 2016, at the building of 87 Syngrou Avenue, the water cooled chillers were replaced with two new ones. For the selection of the latter, technical characteristics of high energy standards8 were taken into account. The new electromechanical equipment led to a 40-45% energy saving and the reduction of operating costs by €30,000 during the first 8 months of its operation (May-December 2016). Energy Saving from light power of buildings During the renovations of building infrastructures, selected LED light bulbs are installed wherever possible. The installation is completed following photometric studies with the basic criteria of the achievement of high levels of lighting and the saving of energy. By examining a significant sample of existing Branches, it was calculated that the Index of Installed Lighting Power Density until 2013 was 20.06 W/m2. In the Branches and buildings that were studied and renovated lighting density was reduced to 7.23 W/m2 in 2016. • Reduction of lighting power: 64% • Reduction in number of light bulbs: 19% • Reduction of installed power density: 52% Based on a study carried out by an external consultant in cooperation with the Engineering Project Management Unit, the annual financial benefit of the above project is estimated at €113,250. Pilot installation of photovoltaic system (net-metering) In 2016 the installation of the photovoltaic system was completed at the roof of a Branch in Heraklio, Crete, with a 50kWp capacity. Its connection to the electricity network is expected to be completed in 2017 along with the expansion of the program to other Branches. Electricity Consumption In 2016, total electricity consumption exceeded 66 GWh, while electricity consumption per square meter remained stable. In parallel, electricity consumption per employee was reduced by about 3%. In total since 20089, electricity consumption per square meter decreased by more than 19%. Heating Fuel Consumption In 2016, the total amount of heating oil procured by the Bank for the heating of several Branches and Administration Buildings decreased by 27% in comparison to 2015, reaching 325,000 litres. The reduced needs were due to milder climatic conditions during the winter in Greece. Specifically, the total Heating Degree Days (HDD) were calculated, taking into consideration data from meteorological stations in 12 cities where a significant reduction was noted, and showed a 6% drop. 8 EER=5,31 and SEER=7,6. 9 2008 is used as baseline year, as since then all environmental aspects of the Bank are calculated systematically on an annual basis. 166 Sustainable Development Report Water Consumption Water consumption is considered to be of medium environmental significance for Piraeus Bank. However, aiming at the proper use of water by employees, there were controlled water flow faucets installed in 2016, at 35 Branches while at the same time at every Branch where BEMS (energy-management systems) have been installed, a water consumption gauge is placed for the constant monitoring of consumption. Compared to 2015, the total water consumption decreased by 8% and the respective index of total water consumption per employee by 4.2%. Consumables Paper consumption has been evaluated as the second most important aspect regarding the environmental impacts stemming from the operation of the Bank. Every year, for its calculation, the supplies of paper consumables, the newspaper subscriptions and the quantities of paper used for communication and promotion, are taken into account. In the Bank, 100% recycled paper with the Eco-Label environmental certification is almost exclusively used as A3/A4 printing paper. In parallel, almost the sum of the quantities consumed for external promotion and communication is from paper derived from sustainable managed forests with FSC certification. In comparison to 2015, a reduction in the total consumption of paper and in the paper consumption per employee index was noted; of 6% and 2% respectively. Consequently, the total quantity of paper reached approximately 1,409 tonnes; 812 tonnes were from paper that was Eco-Label certified, 132 tonnes from FSC certified paper and 462 tonnes from conventional paper. Regarding printing consumables’ consumption (toners, ink cartridges etc) more than 60,000 items were procured, 11,230 of which were refilled cartridges and toners. The use of Managed Print Services implemented in 23 buildings with the goal of avoiding printing errors, as well as the new innovative service e-Signature (electronic signature of documents and contracts) completed in 2016 at the Branch Network, aim at the reduction of paper consumption and printing cost. In addition, in 2016, the new, modern and innovative type of cashier, Paperless cashier was inaugurated tentatively in 53 Branches which promotes reduced use of paper. For 2016, it was calculated that 653,427 sheets of paper were saved due to the pilot program. The project is planned to be expanded quickly and be completed in 2017. Sustainable Development Report 167 Electricity Consumption (kWh / m2) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 177 175 175 170 165 153 -19%* 144 142 142 * Percentage reduction from 2008 to 2016 Distribution of total paper consumption in 2016 Eco – friendly paper, with Eco – Label certification 57% Paper derived from sustainable management forests, 10% with FSC certification Conventional paper 33% Solid Waste Management All buildings have implemented recycling programs and recycling bins have been placed for paper, ink cartridges/toners, batteries and light bulbs, while in 15 large Management Buildings, package recycling is available at the canteens. In total for 2016 there were more than 6,500 collections of materials to be recycled made all over Greece. More specifically: The collection of paper, ink cartridges/toners, plastic to be recycled is done in cooperation with licensed companies. More than 850 tonnes of paper were recycled, while more than 27,500 items of consumables were sent for refilling/ recycling. Specifically for the collections from the Network of Branches, the quantities of paper increased by 17% in comparison to 2015, mainly due to the integration of all Branches into specific collection programs. For the collection of small batteries, large accumulators and electrical and electronic equipment waste (including light bulbs etc), the Bank collaborated with related licensed alternative management systems. The following diagram shows the sums of quantities per material that were sent for alternative management in 2016. 170 Sustainable Development Report Solid Waste Management in 2016 (tn) Metal 51 Batteries and large accumulators 10 Electrical and Electronic Equipment 529 Plastic 6 Toners 21 Paper 858 Paper Recycled (tn) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Α: 646 Α: 515 Α: 419 Α: 278 Β: 94 Β: 227 Β: 86 Β: 100 Γ: 345 Γ: 294 Β: 141 Γ: 260 Α: 3 Β: 123 Β: 119 Β: 116 Β: 109 Γ: 177 Γ: 115 Γ: 115 Γ: 115 Γ: 85 Γ: 89 Α: Warehouses Β: Administration Buildings C: Branch Network Transportation In order to calculate transportation, trips by car and by plane of employees are taken into consideration. More specifically, regarding road transport, the transportation of internal mail by motorcycle to and from the Administration Buildings in Athens is also included. For the calculations the average monthly prices of unleaded gasoline and diesel (business transportation), and the distance covered by employees from workplace to the training centre (training transportation), are taken into account. In total, in 2016, more than 27.7 mn kilometres were travelled by car and more than 5 mn kilometres by plane. Finally, it is worth noting that due to the actualisation of more than 82,500 e-learning assignments to 13,272 employees, approximately 9.4 mn kilometres of travel by road were avoided. Gas Emissions For the calculation of the total CO2 emissions of the Bank, the following sources of emissions are taken into consideration: Direct emissions (Scope 1) • heating oil consumption • gasoline and diesel fuel consumption from corporate fleet cars • all refrigerants added to the air-conditioning equipment and heat/cooling pumps. Refrigerants added to A/C systems* (kg) 2015 2016 R-407C 253.50 332.50 R-410A 154.20 95.20 R-417A 0.00 1.70 R-422D 5.50 47.70 R-422A 16.00 0.00 R-438A 18.00 42.00 * According to existing legislation. Indirect emissions associated with electricity consumed in the Bank’s buildings (Scope 2) • electricity consumption in total buildings and branches. Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) • employee trips by car for business and educational purposes with rented or private cars • employee trips by plane. The emissions from the burning of oil for heating or transportation are based on the Guidelines of IPCC and EMEP/ EEA for national emissions inventory. For the emissions from the consumption of electricity, the data of the national energy balance and emissions are taken into consideration, as they were recorded in the recent annual National Inventory Report of Greenhouse Gas and other gases10. Below the total gas emissions for 2016 are presented. In comparison to 2015 a slight decrease of 2% was noted in the CO2 emissions per employee, while since 2008 the respective decrease exceeds 36%. 10 Location-based methodology. Sustainable Development Report 173 Total CO2 emissions (kg / employee) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 6,209 5,987 5,746 5,674 5,558 5,149 -36%** 4,114* 4,033 3,943 * The 2014 data regarding gas pollutants were reviewed. These changes are attributed to the updating of gas pollutant emission factors for electricity production based on the latest data regarding the energy mix in the electrical energy sector of the country ** Percentage reduction from 2008 to 2016 Trend Target Gas emissions 2015* 2016 2015-2016 2017 CO2 Emissions (tonnes) 58,645.88 55,160.70 -6% CO2 Emissions (kg/m ) 2 116.49 117.75 1% -2% CO2 Emissions (kg/employee) 4,033.00 3,943.08 -2% CH4 Emissions (tonnes) 2.21 1.98 -10% CH4 Emissions (kg/employee) 0.15 0.14 -7% N2O Emissions (tonnes) 1.07 1.01 -5% N2O Emissions (kg/employee) 0.07 0.07 -2% NOx Emissions (tonnes) 133.11 129.73 -3% NOx Emissions (kg/employee) 9.15 9.27 1% SO2 Emissions (tonnes) 99.79 92.70 -7% SO2 Emissions (kg/employee) 6.86 6.63 -3% CO Emissions (tonnes) 155.67 124.55 -20% CO Emissions (kg/employee) 10.71 8.90 -17% ΝΜVOC Emissions (tonnes) 18.40 17.51 -5% ΝΜVOC Emissions (kg/employee) 1.27 1.25 -1% PM10 Emissions (tonnes) 31.25 29.42 -6% PM10 Emissions (kg/employee) 2.15 2.10 -2% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)** scope 1 3,614.19 4,407.74 22% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)** scope 2 52,621.41 48,919.53 -7% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)** scope 3 3,609.81 3,130.74 -13% CO2,eq Total Emissions (tonnes) Scope 1, 2, 3 59,845.42 56,458.01 -6% CO2,eq Total Emissions (tonnes/ employee) Scope 1, 2, 3 4.12 4.04 -2% * The 2015 data regarding gas pollutants were reviewed. These changes are attributed to the updating of gas pollutant emission factors for electricity production based on the latest data regarding the energy mix in the electrical energy sector of the country. ** For calculation of equivalent CO2 emissions the following factors were applied: 1 for CO2, 25 for CH4 and 298 for N2O. For further details, please refer to: IPCC, Fourth Assessment Report (AR4), Working Group 1, Chapter 2, Changes in Atmospheric Constituents and in Radiative Forcing, Table 2.14, p. 212. CO2 = carbon dioxide, CH4 = methane, N2O = nitrous oxide, NOΧ = nitrogen oxides, SO2= sulphur dioxide, CO = carbon monoxide, NMVOC= non-methane volatile organic compounds, PM10 = particulate matter Sustainable Development Report 175 Trend Target Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 2015 2016 2015-2016 2017 Energy Consumption Consumption of electricity (GWh)* 71.32 66.30 -7% Consumption of electricity (kWh/employee) * 4,904.53 4,739.50 -3% Consumption of electricity (kWh/m2)* 141.66 141.53 0% -2% Heating fuel consumption (litres) 443,849.78 324,315.23 -27% Heating fuel consumption (litres/employee) 30.52 23.18 -24% Heating fuel consumption (litres/m ) 2 0.88 0.69 -21% Consumption of electricity (GJ)* 256,749.39 238,687.24 -7% Heating fuel consumption (GJ) 16,106.29 11,768.65 -27% Total energy consumption (GJ) within the Organisation** 294,422.00 285,303.79 -3% Total energy consumption (GJ) outside of the Organisation*** 45,748.45 37,321.08 -18% Transportation Business trips by plane – jetfuel (tn) 140.97 201.78 43% Business trips by plane (km) 3,560,672.00 5,096,539.20 43% Business trips by plane (km/employee) 244.86 364.32 49% Business trips by leased/corporate car – diesel fuel (litres) 262,743.01 582,763.22 122% Business trips by leased/corporate car or motorcycle – gasoline fuel (litres) 366,683.26 417,540.36 14% Business trips by rented car – gasoline fuel (litres) 947,989.60 952,809.32 1% Business trips by car/motorcycle****(km) 20,746,788.15 26,489,795.39 28% Trips by car for educational purposes – gasoline fuel (litres) 386,141.05 98,571.69 -74% Trips by car for educational purposes (km) 4,887,861.40 1,247,742.80 -74% Total kilometres travelled by car (km) 25,634,649.55 27,737,538 8% Total kilometres travelled by car (km/employee) 1,762.86 1,982.78 12% Total Miles travelled (km) 29,195,321.55 32,834,077.42 12% Trips prevented by opting for e-learning (km) 10,428,348.00 9,397,654.00 -10% Water Consumption Water consumption (m3)* 120,599.33 111,116.08 -8% Water consumption (m3/employee)* 8.29 7.94 -4% -2% Solid Waste Management Paper consumption from newspaper subscriptions (tonnes) [I] 37.10 36.78 -1% Paper consumption from the use of paper consumables (tonnes) [IΙ] 417.25 424.45 2% Conventional paper consumption from marketing (tonnes) [IΙΙ] 0.91 1.14 26% Total conventional paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[IIΙ] 455.25 462.37 2% Total conventional paper consumption kg/employee) 31.31 33.05 6% 176 Sustainable Development Report Trend Target Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 2015 2016 2015-2016 2017 Total consumption of original toner and cartridges (items) [VI] 49,442 48,817 -1% Green Procurement A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (tonnes) [IV] 863.99 812.02 -6% A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (kg/employee) 59.42 58.05 -2% FSC paper consumption for marketing [V] 179.65 135.30 -25% Total paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[III]+[IV]+[V] 1,498.89 1,409.69 -6% Total paper consumption (kg/employee) 103.08 100.77 -2% -3% Percentage of recycled chlorine-free vs. total consumption (%) 57.64% 57.60% 0% Percentage of FSC paper vs. total consumption (%) 11.99% 9.60% -20% Percentage of eco-friendly paper use (FSC or recycled) vs. total consumption (%) 69.63% 67.20% -3% Consumption of refilled toner and cartridges (items) [VII] 14,779 11,230 -24% Total consumption of toner and cartridges (items) [VI]+ [VII] 64,221 60,047 -6% Total consumption of toner and cartridges (items/employee) 4.42 4.29 -3% Percentage of refilled vs original (%) 23.01% 18.70% -19% Solid Waste Management Amount of paper recycled (tonnes) 1,026.30 857.66 -16% Amount of paper recycled (kg/employee) 70.58 61.31 -13% 3%****** Amount of paper recycled (recycled/consumed) (%) 68.47% 60.84% -11% Amount of toner and cartridges recycled (items) 21,341 27,495 29% Amount of cartridges/toner recycled/reused***** (tonnes) 16.01 20.62 29% Amount of plastic recycled (kg) 4,663.58 6,404.90 37% Amount of batteries recycled (kg) 7,744.83 8,960.70 16% Amount of large accumulators recycled (kg) 14,772.14 1,026.50 -93% Amount of light bulbs and lighting equipment recycled (kg) 4,133.84 15,140.12 266% Amount of other electrical and electronic equipment recycled 352.15 514.31 46% 10%****** (excl. lights bulbs and lighting equipment) (tonnes) * Bills received until the first ten days of April 2017 are included. ** Energy consumption from car transportation of the company’s fleet is included. *** All travel by car and air is included except travel with the corporate fleet. **** Based on the assumption that the average consumption of a gasoline-powered vehicle is 7.9 litres/100km and of a dieselpowered vehicle is 6.4 litres/100km while average consumption of a motorcycle is 4.7 litres/100km. ***** Based on the assumption that a cartridge/toner weighs on average 750 gr. ****** The target concerns all building infrastructures of the Bank except warehouses. Sustainable Development Report 177 Electronic Banking The electronic banking services (winbank) of Piraeus Bank, besides facilitating banking transactions, contribute significantly to the reduction of the environmental footprint of the Bank. The significant increase in the use of e-banking services (Easypay platform, Internet, Phone & Mobile Banking) adds a special dynamic in the environmental benefits that emerge and specifically in the reduction of natural resources consumption. More specifically, for 2016, the total number of electronic transactions exceeded 110,000,000, saving more than 617 tonnes of paper. Finally, monthly bank account and card statements of employees are not printed. The relevant information is provided solely electronically, through winbank. Environmental Risk Piraeus Bank assesses now on a yearly basis, the climate exposure of its business borrowers, who are active in sectors of economy that might be affected financially by climate change. The climate exposure assessment has been the first coordinated effort of financial evaluation of climate exposure of businesses that are active in Greece. The assessment is done through the upgraded Climate Risk Management Model application that evaluates in monetary terms the climate exposure of Greek companies. The field of economic sectors examined, has been expanded into sectors of economic activity that now present special interest for the loan portfolio of the Bank (e.g. agricultural sector, manufacturing). The Application now has 324 Typical Units (standard model representations of productive units of the representative economic sub-sectors). The general sectors and sub-sectors are those of the Primary Production (Agriculture), Manufacturing, Shipping, the Tertiary Sector (hotels, offices, hospitals) and Energy Production (conventional fuels and RES’s). For the assessment of the climate exposure, the price of €7/tn CO2eq was used as the average unit price to buy greenhouse gas emission allowances. The total climate exposure of business borrowers of Piraeus Bank was calculated for 2015 at €674 mn, or 1.6% and for 2016 at €592 mn or 1.3% of their total turnover. According to the results of the assessment the composition of the business loan portfolio, at the end of 2015 and 2016, with the criterion of climate exposure of borrowing economic sectors, was as follows: Business loan portfolio composition, based on climate exposure of financed economic sectors Climate Exposure Sector Category 2015 Percentage 2016 Percentage Sectors of negative climate exposure (benefit) 1.2% 1.1% Sectors of zero climate exposure 63.6% 73.7% Sectors of low climate exposure 19.0% 12.8% Sectors of medium climate exposure 7.3% 5.7% Sectors of high climate exposure 8.9% 6.7% European Project LIFE-Stymfalia In the framework of Piraeus Bank Group's corporate responsibility, the successful implementation of the European cofunded project LIFE-Stymfalia (October 2013), is still ongoing. The project team a pioneering partnership of Piraeus Bank with the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation, Municipality of Sikyonion, OIKOM Environmental Studies Ltd, Society for the Protection of Prespa and Centre for Renewable Energy Sources and Saving (CRES), aims at the restoration of the wetland of Stymphalia and the creation of conditions for the refinancing of actions for the management of the Lake. At the same time, the necessary procedures for the licensing of a reed-bed cutting plan for the next year are continued as well as the technical works for the adjustment of the water level of the Lake. In the context of the technical works, a hydrological gauge was placed in the deepest of the Lake. In 2016, seven aquatic breeding species were recorded (three species of heron and a bird of prey), which were fewer than 2015 when favourable conditions for waterfowl led to impressive reproductive results. Moreover, 27 bat boxes were placed on trees at the perimeter of the Lake, while the construction and installation of a bird watching hide was completed. The Local Management Unit was reinforced with one more member, to better continue the surveillance of the protected area. The Unit is comprised of local residents, so as to be directly engaged with the local community. Following the creation of the Farmers’ Network of Stymphalia, educational seminars on sustainable agriculture were 178 Sustainable Development Report organized, and a special logo was created for the products and services of the Network’s members, to enhance brand-recognition and promote the value of products/services of Stymphalia. In addition, an educational toolkit was completed along with the final section of the thematic exhibition 6th Labour at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia. Educational activities events to promote LIFE-Stymfalia project as well as the second workshop Business Opportunities in Natura 2000 sites and the new program period 2014-2020 , were organized at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia. The project' progress is monitored through the submission of regular reports to the European Union. In May 2016, the third project visit of LIFE-Stymfalia project was held by the External Monitoring Team of the European Commission, during which the progress of the project's actions was presented by the project partners. Following the visit, the third Progress Report was submitted to the European Commission continuing the positive course that it has been steering for three years now. LIFE-Stymfalia proposes an alternative financing scheme based on the protection of the Lake and the economic utilisation of the biomass and other renewable energy resources of the region, in order to secure the sustainability of management actions after the completion of the project. At the same time, it is compatible with the goals and commitments of Piraeus Bank regarding its Environmental Policy in relation to the protection and enhancement of biodiversity. For more information see: www.lifestymfalia.gr Collaborations The Bank collaborated with the Civil Society for the protection of biodiversity and the environment. The Society for the Protection of Prespa participates as a partner in the implementation of the European project LIFE-Stymfalia of the Bank, which began in October 2013. In the context of the employees’ participation in volunteer programs, in 2016 the Bank collaborated with Organisation Earth, while the cooperation with the social cooperative Klimax Plus for the collection of paper to be recycled in Attica is continued. This cooperation besides its contribution to the achievement in the environmental goals of the Bank also supports vulnerable social groups and contributes to their re-introduction to society. Environmental Awareness and Training Environmental Awareness and Employee Training Environmental education is an especially important part of the environmental policy of the Group, both regarding the education of its employees and of the wider society and it is pursued along two directions. The first direction includes all employees and is being realised through e-learning about basic environmental concepts and the environmental work of the Bank. The second direction concerns specific targeted groups and specific topics such as green entrepreneurship, the Bank’s green products as well as the procedures of the Environmental Management System under EMAS of the Bank. In total, in 2016, the 151 people who had taken up the role of Environmental Management Co-ordinators were trained and almost 600 people completed environmental e-learning programs. In addition, targeted educational programs were organised in the Centre of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi, in Kastri, on matters of saving energy, renewable energy sources, solid waste and water management and financing of those but also on the strengthening of knowledge about Green Entrepreneurship and environmental banking. The education concerned Entrepreneurship Centres’ executives, the Directors and executives of the Branch Network and executives of subsidiaries. In total more than 1,200 people took part with more than 6,700 man-hours of training. Green News Green News uploaded on the intranet continued this year to inform employees. On average, 1000 employees follow the bulletins. Employees of some subsidiaries of the Group (such as ETVA VIPE, Piraeus Direct Services) also have access to the Green News . Annual Environmental Management Competition Piraeus Bank, in the context of the Environmental Management System (EMS), organises for the sixth consecutive year a competition to reward the Branches and Administration Buildings that follow proper and responsible environmental behaviour in their everyday operation. The annual competitions of environmental management constitute a significant motive regarding the sensitisation of employees, who are awarded for the best environmental performances of their Branches in recycling of materials and energy saving. So for the 6th year, in the beginning of 2016, the Material RecySustainable Development Report 179 cling and Energy Saving Competition Green Behaviour Wins! was completed. The personnel of the Branches and buildings that won received symbolic gifts with environmental overtone. Eco-Driving Aiming at the constant environmental education and sensitisation of employees, in 2016, the program of ecological driving was completed in collaboration with the Centre for Renewable Energy Sources and Saving (CRES). The program entitled eco-driving has the following goals: • Awareness regarding economic, safe and environmentally-friendly driving • Sensitisation for the saving of energy and the protection of the environment in travels/ transportation • Reduction of the cost of travel and CO2 emissions. The employees that participated had the opportunity to practise in eco-driving and see immediate results in their own cars. The program is expected to continue in 2017. Volunteerism and Environmental Education of Children The Bank, promoting volunteerism, organised in 2016 volunteer environmental actions with the participation of employees, such as the visit to the Environment Museum of Stymphalia and the volunteer tree-planting at the entrance of the village, as well as the visit to the Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive-Oil in Sparta. In addition, in May 2016, the Bank organised a volunteer educational program for the hospitalised children and the children of the employees of the Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki, in the context of the Eco Week Events organised by the Hospital. Finally, during the Christmas period in 2016, an event was realised with actions of environmental content for children of employees in cooperation with the American Farm School of Thessaloniki. In total, more than 200 people participated in the above actions, both adults and children. In the context of the European project LIFE-Stymfalia, an educational toolkit Mission Stymphalia was created, which contains toys and interactive audiovisual material, through which students are informed about the importance of the sustainable management of the Lake, learning at the same time in an experiential way about the Lake itself and the threats it faces. External Communication The platform Think Green operates since 2011, and has created an internet community of sensitised users on environmental issues. It has presence in the most popular social networks (Facebook, twitter, YouTube, Flickr). The platform has more than 32,000 friends on facebook in the six years of its operation and constitutes a precious source of information on environmental issues. More information is available on the website of the Group www.piraeusbankgroup.com where its environmental work is presented thoroughly, while on the web-pages of climabiz and LIFE-Stymfalia the progress and results of these projects are shown. Green Banking Piraeus Bank guided by Green Banking, follows the developments in the renewable energy sector, which constitutes the biggest segment of the green portfolio of the Group, and in all fields that contribute to the promotion of a sustainable growth model. The sectors which the Bank promotes actively since 2009 are: Renewable Energy Sources (RES), energy efficiency, alternative waste and water management, organic farming, agro-tourism and eco-tourism, green transportation and green chemistry. The creation of specialised green products and services by the Bank, aims to serve all sectors of green entrepreneurship, with the goal of promoting clean technologies and servicing relevant investment choices of customers, businesses and private individuals. In this context, Green Banking proceeded in the creation of new loan products, under the umbrella of the team Piraeus Green Business , mainly targeting Small and Medium sized businesses and Professionals, while it also continued with the modernisation of existing consumer loans. Another important axis of Green Banking is the assessment of the sustainability of funded projects, taking fully into consideration the innovative technologies and applications, as well as the changes in the legislative framework while protecting both the investors and the Bank. 180 Sustainable Development Report In 2016, targeted educational seminars were designed and implemented for all levels of employees of the Group. In addition, the Group attended/participated actively in several seminars and conferences with Greek and international institutions, in order to monitor European guidelines and international directives and to inform the public regarding these sectors. Piraeus Bank, through analytical procedures of monitoring its green portfolio, notes at regular intervals, the positive contribution of green loans to sustainable growth. At the end of 2016, the Group had more that €1.71 bn approved limits, proving in this way its strong commitment to the financing of new green entrepreneurship works and especially RES projects that are in planning and implementation phase. An increase (12% in comparison to 2015) was noted on the number of green clients (private individuals and businesses) that were financed by Piraeus Bank Group in order to complete their green investments. In total at the end of 2016, loan balances of the green portfolio exceeded €1.05 bn, with the portfolio maintaining its quality characteristics. Important role on the quality of the green portfolio is played by the constant techno-economic analysis of all existing and new investments, integrating among others, technical and environmental criteria in their assessments. Loans to RES projects continue to constitute the majority of the Group’s green portfolio. The total capacity of financed projects (including paid-off loans) by the Group, at year-end 2016 reached 1017 MW, holding the 19.3% of the total RES capacity in Greece. The operation of these investments prevents on an annual basis, the emissions of 2.120 mn tonnes of CO2; a quantity that would require more than 159 mn trees to be absorbed. RES project volumes 2016 2015 Trend Capacity (MW) from bank-funded RES 1,017 975 +4% CO2 Emissions prevented (million tonnes) * 2.120 1.967 ** +8% Green loan limits of RES projects (bn €) 1.31 1.28 +2% Green loan balances of RES projects (bn €) 0.95 0.96 -1% * Calculation of the CO2 quantities of emissions prevented is achieved based on an average rate of CO2 emissions from Greek electricity production and the average annual electricity production per RES technology according to the latest published data by the Operator of Electricity Market. ** The amount of CO2 emissions prevented was reviewed for 2015. The change is due to the updating of the CO2 emission factor for fossil fuel substitution. Green Banking’s social impact Despite the fact that during 2016 the political and social developments extended the climate of economic uncertainty, the support of Piraeus Bank Group, that has been provided for more than 10 years to green economy was not halted. Through continuous financing provision to all sectors of green entrepreneurship, Green Banking contributed to the creation and preservation of 35,000 labour-years, or on average of 6,000 permanent jobs per year for the period 2011-2016. Designing the Environmental & Social Management System for Financing In 2016, Piraeus Bank Group proceeded with the design and development of a new integrated Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS). The new ESMS includes the existing Environmental Management System (EMS) for the management of environmental and social issues that arise from the internal operation of the Bank but also the Environmental and Social Risk Management System of the risks that may arise from the business activities of financed customers. The new ESMS for financing constitutes a complete framework of operation and methodology for the recognition, evaluation and management of environmental and social risks that stem from business activities of financed customers. The application of the ESMS includes the adoption by the Bank of a list of excluded activities, based on which the funding to specific sectors is not allowed. In addition, in all business funding and depending on the category of the environmental and social risk, a due diligence investigation is conducted, regarding the environment and the health and safety of society, according to the national legal framework and in some cases the International Standards. The Bank monitors and evaluates regularly, the environmental and social performance of funded projects, businesses and infrastructures. Development Programs Piraeus Bank responding with consistency to its commitment to support Greek entrepreneurship, continued in 2016 its cooperation with development institutions in Greece and internationally. The Development Program Unit, constitutes a Sustainable Development Report 181 key factor of connection between the market and the institutions, and through the creation and management of products and services relative to development, guarantee and co-funded programs, provides the necessary tools to businesses that wish to grow and expand their activities. The relevant financing of investment loans and working capital, with favourable terms, besides the obvious support of liquidity of businesses, responds also to the social challenges in Greece. Indicatively, in 2016, Piraeus Bank proceeded in the signing of a new agreement with the European Investment Bank (EIB) for the provision of funding to businesses, according to which, further reduction of interest rate is provisioned for businesses that are willing to create or have created within the last six months at least one job for young people (ages 15-25). This agreement follows a previous successful cooperation with EIB in the context of Grouped Loans for SMEs program. Sustainable Development and Investments Piraeus Asset Management is a subsidiary of Piraeus Bank and is part of the Piraeus Financial Markets sector, having as a basic purpose the investment management of Mutual Funds and Institutional and Private Portfolios. In the context of the special emphasis placed by the Group on matters of Corporate Governance and of the rising interest of the international investment community towards businesses that operate under strict principles of corporate governance and social and environmental sensitivity, Piraeus Asset Management has began since April 2016 the gradual integration of Environmental, Social & Governance Principles in its investment methodology. This initiative is also based on international research data, according to which the adoption of Sustainable Development policies by businesses contributes to the achievement of better investment returns on a long-term basis. Piraeus Asset Management has already created a database of 2,800 international businesses, which are analysed according to internationally recognised ESG Principles, aiming to invest in those that follow them. At the same time, Piraeus Asset Management is creating a similar list for Mutual Funds of international investment institutions with similar policy, so to invest in third-part Mutual Funds as well. In addition, Piraeus Asset Management has already submitted a request in the Hellenic Capital Market Commission for the transformation of a Mutual Fund to a Fidelity Multi Asset Defensive Fund, which will invest mainly in international Mutual Funds that have integrated ESG Principles in their investment procedure. Finally, in the seminar Insurance Funds Reserves Management in June 2016, the company explained extensively the importance of connecting the management of insurance funds with the potential benefit for Society, from where these funds come from. ETVA Industrial Parks SA 2016 ETVA VIPE SA Achievements Environmental Certification • In 2016, the EMS that was developed according to the EMAS and ISO 14001 standards, was set in operation for two Industrial Parks (in Lamia and Komotini) and the pilot application for two more Industrial Parks (in Patras and Drama) began. Taking into consideration, the ISO 9001 Quality Management System, the new demands and the unification of systems, the EMS is expected to integrate environmental criteria in all procedures for the constant improvement of the environmental performance of ETVA VIPE. • The assessment of the environmental risk for the Parks in Lamia and Komotini was concluded. The procedure for recording environmental risk for the ones in Patras and Drama began. Environmental Compliance • T he environmental compliance of Industrial Parks according to Environmental Terms Approval Decisions and the absence of environmental violations characterises the operation of the company for 2016. • In the context of its Corporate Responsibility program, ETVA VIPE collaborated with a specialised consultant-researcher for a study regarding the monitoring of the quality of air at the Park in Meligalas, focused on the operation of oil core plants. 182 Sustainable Development Report The study and implementation of a diffusion model connects aerial emissions of businesses and meteorological conditions. The installation and operation of a portable meteorological station in the area constitutes a significant move that allows for the information of the public and the taking of measures from the authorities. • Regarding the improvement of the environmental performance of the company, in 2016 the environmental monitoring program continued; it consists of controls, sampling and implementation of laboratory parameter analysing to ensure the quality of the environment and human health. Multiple analyses were made in the labs of Waste Water Treatment Plants of the Industrial Parks as well as in accredited laboratories and University Institutions in Greece. Water Supply • Tackling water loss from the water supply networks according to international standards, with a loss reduction of more than 270,000m3 in 2016 ( that corresponds to a reduction of losses of approximately 5% of the supplied water). Water Waste Management Services • T he competition for the choice of contractor was completed regarding the upgrade of WWMP of the Park in Larisa. • The bio-augmentation in the biological wastewater treatment continues with success in two WWMPs, resulting in the reduction of dewatered sludge production by more than 2,000 tonnes and the energy-saving from wastewater management of more than 170 MWh. VIPE Management Services • E TVA VIPE sets as a constant and primary goal, the effective management of the Industrial Parks, providing high quality services to the resident companies. In this direction, in 2016, more than 270 requests have been processed maintaining the same high level of readiness with the previous year. 2017 Goals of ETVA Industrial Parks SA Environmental Certification • The target of listing the Parks in Lamia and Komotini in the EMAS Register remains. The relevant request has been submitted with the necessary documentation to the newly created Commission of the Ministry of Environment & Energy and its assessment is in progress. • Completion of the accreditation under ISO 14001 of two new positions (the Parks in Patras and Drama). Submission of a request for listing in the EMAS Register of the new posts will follow. • Upgrade of the environmental monitoring system for the automation of the environmental checks procedure (planning, sampling, sending of samples to laboratories, checking of results, warning in case of exceedance). Environmental Compliance • Implementation of a pilot application in VIPE Lamia in the context of planning technical standards of Smart Industrial Parks. Application of an intervention model in existing infrastructure, with the installation of censors and meters (AMR, energy and pollution load meters), for the collection of measurements in a unified database/platform. The target is to achieve automation of performance factors’ monitoring. Sustainable Development Report 183 • C  ompletion of a diffusion model for the measuring of the contribution of the Industrial Park in Thessaloniki to the quality of the atmosphere in the wider area. Water Supply • Further reduction of water loss in the water supply networks under the responsibility of ETVA VIPE SA. Wastewater Management • Upgrade of the WWMP of the Industrial Park in Larisa for the improvement of its operation and the reduction of its environmental footprint. The competition for the choice of a contractor has been completed. • Completion of the upgrade works of the WWMP of the Industrial Park in Thessaloniki and setting it in operation. Industrial Parks Management Services • Operation of a full-scale online platform, pertinent to the work requests and commissioning system management, who helps to optimize the process (automation, approvals) and strengthens paper savings. • Design and implementation of a central system (software) concerning the management organization of preventive and reparative maintenance programs of the Industrial Parks’ electromechanical installations with the aim of reducing the damage. Environmental Actions of the Piraeus Bank Group International Network Piraeus Bank Group invests in Corporate Responsibility at its international network as well, with initiatives and actions that protect the natural environment. Cyprus • Posting of Green News on intranet with the aim of internally shaping an environmentally friendly culture and behaviour. • Donation of recycling bins to Municipalities and schools in Cyprus. With the motto Recycle with us , Piraeus Bank Cyprus continues to reinforce the collective campaign for recycling. • Placement of battery recycling bins in all Branches and Management Buildings of the Bank in Cyprus in cooperation with AFIS SA. • Promotion of e-banking aiming at the conservation of natural resources. Bulgaria • Dispatch of e-statements for monthly banking transactions in an effort to reduce paper and energy consumption and consequently protect the environment. • Promotion of e-banking aiming at the conservation of natural resources. Romania • Use of social media to disseminate and encourage environmental actions. • Programs for paper, plastic and light bulb recycling at the Branches and Management Buildings. • Promotion of e-banking aiming at the conservation of natural resources. 184 Sustainable Development Report Serbia • Use of electronic means such as winbank, e-newsletter, e-card, e-learning etc, to save natural resources and reduce operating expenses. • Recycling programs for paper and electrical and electronic equipment. Frankfurt Branch • Program for scanning, destroying and recycling paper which began in 2011 in cooperation with Praunheimer Werkstatten gemeinnutzige Gmbh that employs people with special needs. The destruction of a printed archive and the recycling is done based on DIN 66399 of existing legislation. Six special paper recycling bins have been installed at the Branch and they are regularly replaced. • Program for the recycling of batteries in cooperation with the GRS Batterien11 institution. In 2016, the Frankfurt Branch installed two battery recycling bins for its personnel and its visitors. • Program for the recycling of light-bulbs in cooperation with the non-profit organisation Lightcycle, which has a constantly growing, Germany-wide network of collection. In 2016, the Frankfurt Branch installed two light-bulb recycling bins for its personnel and its visitors. • Scanning, destroying and recycling program from 2011 and in partnership with Praunheimer Werkst tten gemeinn tzige GmbH a company that employs people with disabilities. Six special paper recycling bins are installed at each branch and they are systematically replaced. • The Branch has on display posters with Energy Saving Instructions and special signs to indicate the recycling points in order to encourage the personnel and its customers to practices that are environmentally friendly. 11 The GRS Batterien Institution ensures the unified gathering and collection of used batteries in all Germany according to paragraphs 6.1 and 6.3 of the Law regarding Batteries (Batteriegesetz). Sustainable Development Report 185 GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 Sustainable Development Report 191 GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures (Core option) GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organization Piraeus Bank SA  Disclosures 102-2  Activities, brands, products, piraeusbankgroup.com  and services 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 Amerikis street, 105 64, Athens  102-4 Location of operations piraeusbankgroup.com>  Group Profile>Group Presence 102-5  Ownership and legal form piraeusbankgroup.com>  Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Articles of Association, SDR: Shareholder structure 102-6 Markets served piraeusbankgroup.com>  Investor Relations>Presentations> 2017>Corporate Group Presentation 102-7 Scale of the organization piraeusbankgroup.com>  Group Profile>Corporate Profile SDR: Number of People Working at Piraeus Bank Group BR: At a Glance, Group’s Financial Data Analysis AFR: Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Financial Position piraeusbankgroup.com>en>investors> financials>presentation-audioarchive>slide: 15>Assets and Liabilities Mix, 46>Loan & Deposit Portfolios 102-8  Information on employees piraeusbankgroup.com>  and other workers Group Profile>At a Glance SDR: Number of People Working at Piraeus Bank Group, Distribution per Employment Type and Contract, Collective Representation, Social Policy 102-9 Supply chain SDR: Supplier Relationship  102-10 Significant changes piraeusbankgroup.com>  to the organization Group Profile and its supply chain SDR: Supplier Relationship BR: Chairman’s Letter to the Shareholders AFR: Εvolution of Volumes and Results of Piraeus Bank Group during 2016 * External Assurance 192 Sustainable Development Report GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures (Core option) GRI 102: General 102-11 Precautionary approach piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate  Disclosures Responsibility>Environment> Environment Fields of Action> Environmental Management> Piraeus Bank’s Environmental Statement SDR: Environmental Database Legislation and Case Law 2016, SDR: Environmental Statement, SDR: Internal Audit System and External Auditors, SDR: Independent Assurance Statement, SDR: Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonisation with Global Standards 102-12 External initiatives SDR: Participation in Global Initiatives  and Harmonisation with Global Standards 102-13 Membership of associations Hellenic Banking Association (hba.gr)  UN Global Compact (unglobalcompact.org) SDR: Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonisation with Global Standards SDR: Piraeus Bank Group’s Declaration of Volunteerism SDR: Culture and Environmental Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage, Museum Network 102-14 Statement from senior SDR: Chairman’s Note  decision-maker BR: Chairman’s Letter to the Shareholders 102-16 Values, principles, standards, SDR: Corporate Responsibility  and norms of behavior Principles SDR: Corporate Governance piraeusbankgroup.com> en>investors>corporate-governance> Corporate Governance Structure & Operating Regulations, Code of Conduct 102-18 Governance structure AFR: Corporate Governance Statement  SDR: Corporate Governance * External Assurance Sustainable Development Report 193 GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures (Core option) GRI 102: General Standard 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SDR: Stakeholders’ Dialogue  Disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining SDR: Distribution per Employment  agreements Type and Contract 102-42 Identifying and selecting SDR: Stakeholders’ Dialogue  stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder SDR: Stakeholders’ Dialogue  engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SDR: Information Regarding the  Content of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report SDR: Stakeholders’ Dialogue 102-45 Entities included in the AFR: note 26>Investments in  consolidated financial statements Consolidated Companies, SDR: Information Regarding the Content of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 102-46 Defining report content SDR: Information Regarding the  and topic Boundaries Content of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 102-47 List of material topics SDR: Information Regarding the  Content of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Please refer to Material Topics 102-48 Restatements of information SDR: Information Regarding the  Content of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 102-49 Changes in reporting SDR: Information Regarding the  Content of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 102-50 Reporting period 01.01.2016-31.12.2016  102-51 Date of most recent report 29.06.2016  102-52 Reporting cycle Annual  102-53 Contact point for questions Business Planning & Investor Relations  regarding the report investor_relations@piraeusbank.gr 102-54 Claims of reporting in SDR: Information Regarding the  accordance with the GRI Content of the 2016 Corporate Standards Responsibility Report 102-55 GRI content index SDR: GRI Content Index  102-56 External assurance SDR: Independent Assurance  Statement Material topics Exploiting new technologies (Q4) GRI 103: M anagement 103-1  Explanation of the material SDR: Use new technologies  Approach 2016 topic and its Boundaries to upgrade customer service * External Assurance 194 Sustainable Development Report GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Exploiting new technologies (Q4) GRI 103: Management 103-2  The management approach SDR: Use new technologies to upgrade  Approach 2016 and its components customer service 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Use new technologies to upgrade  approach customer service Piraeus Bank indicator: Use of digital SDR: Use new technologies to upgrade  service channels customer service Piraeus Bank indicator is defined as the percentage of transactions made in digital channels in relation to the total number of transactions. Customer service with responsibility and transparency (Q1) GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material SDR: Customer and Supplier  Approach 2016 topic and its Boundaries Relationship 103-2 The management approach SDR: Customer and Supplier  and its components Relationship 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Customer and Supplier  approach Relationship Piraeus Bank indicator: Number of SDR: Customer Complaints  customers’ compaints Management Reduction of the Bank’s operational environmental impact (Q9) GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material piraeusbankgroup.com>  Approach 2016 topic and its Boundaries Corporate Responsibility> Environment> Environmental Policy piraeusbankgroup.com> Corporate Responsibility> Environment> Environmental Policy> Piraeus Bank Environmental Statement SDR: Environmental Framework 103-2 The management approach SDR: Environmental Framework,  and its components Environmental Management Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Environmental Framework,  approach Environmental Management Policy GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight SDR: Consumables or volume SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 301-2 Recycled input materials used SDR: Consumables SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint * External Assurance Sustainable Development Report 195 GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reference Omission EA* Material topics Reduction of the Bank’s operational environmental impact (Q9) GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption SDR: Energy  within the organization SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 302-3 Energy intensity SDR: Energy SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 302-4 Reduction of energy SDR: Energy consumption SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) SDR: Emissions  GHG emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) SDR: Emissions  GHG emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) SDR: Emissions  GHG emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SDR: Emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SDR: Emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur SDR: Emissions oxides (SOX), and other SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental significant air emissions Footprint GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal SDR: Effluents and Waste Waste method SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint Continuous improvement of products/services provided by the Bank (Q2) GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material SDR: Continuous Improvement Approach 2016 topic and its Boundaries of Customer Satisfaction 103-2 The management approach SDR: Continuous Improvement and its components of Customer Satisfaction 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Continuous Improvement approach of Customer Satisfaction A network of museums in regional Greece, supporting local communities (Q14) GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material SDR: Museum Network  Approach 2016 topic and its Boundaries 103-2 The management approach SDR: Museum Network  and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Museum Network  approach * External Assurance 196 Sustainable Development Report GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reference Omission EA* Material topics A network of museums in regional Greece, supporting local communities (Q14) GRI 203: Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments piop.gr  Impacts and services supported SDR: Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Culture SDR: Culture and Environmental Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage SDR: Museum Network SDR: Historical Archive, Library, Education SDR: Contact and Networking with Institutions in Local Societies 203-2 Significant indirect economic piop.gr impacts SDR: Society SDR: Museum Network Promotion of the Greek cultural heritage and connection between culture and the environment and sustainable development (Q13) GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material SDR: Museum Network  Approach 2016 topic and its Boundaries 103-2 The management approach SDR: Museum Network  and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Museum Network  approach GRI 203: Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments piop.gr  Impacts and services supported SDR: Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Culture SDR: Culture and Environmental Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage SDR: Museum Network SDR: Historical Archive, Library, Education SDR: Contact and Networking with Institutions in Local Societies 203-2 Significant indirect economic piop.gr impacts SDR: Society SDR: Museum Network Cultural, scientific and educational activities (Q15) GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material SDR: Museum Network  Approach 2016 topic and its Boundaries 103-2 The management approach SDR: Museum Network  and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Museum Network  approach * External Assurance Sustainable Development Report 197 GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reference Omission EA* Material topics Cultural, scientific and educational activities (Q15) GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments piop.gr  Economic Impacts and services supported SDR: Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Culture SDR: Culture and Environmental Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage SDR: Museum Network SDR: Historical Archive, Library, Education SDR: Contact and Networking with Institutions in Local Societies 203-2 Significant indirect piop.gr economic impacts SDR: Society SDR: Museum Network Continuous training of employees (Q5) GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material SDR: Investing in People’s  Approach 2016 topic and its Boundaries Development 103-2 The management approach SDR: Investing in People’s  and its components Development 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Investing in People’s  approach Development GRI 404: Training and 404-1  Average hours of training per SDR: Investing in People’s  Education year per employee Development Protection of biodiversity (Q10) GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach SDR: Environmental Framework,  Approach 2016 and its components Biodiversity and the Environment 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Environmental Framework,  approach Biodiversity and the Environment GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, SDR: Biodiversity and the Environment products, and services on biodiversity * External Assurance 198 Sustainable Development Report GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reference Omission EA* Material topics Protection of biodiversity (Q10) GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored SDR: Biodiversity and the Environment  lifestymphalia.gr>Life-Stymphalia Project >Aim-Objectives lifestymphalia.gr>Life-Stymphalia Project >Partners lifestymphalia.gr>The area of Lake Stymphalia>Species lifestymphalia.gr>Life-Stymphalia Project>Actions >Preparatory Actions Raising human rights awareness (Q6) GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach SDR: Commitment to Safeguarding  Approach 2016 and its components Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Commitment to Safeguarding  approach Human Rights GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human SDR: Commitment to Safeguarding  Assessment rights policies or procedures Human Rights Notes: BR: Business Report 2016 SDR: Sustainable Development Report 2016 AFR: Annual Financial Report 2016 It is noted that the table contains brief description of GRI indices for reasons of presentation. For the complete description, please refer to the following link https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/gri-standards-downloadcenter/ * External Assurance Sustainable Development Report 199 ISO 26000 Corporate Responsibility Environment Unit 2010 Clauses GRI Standards Principles of Social Responsibility 4 Accountability 4.2 The application of the GRI Standards provides organizations Transparency 4.3 with a tool for accounting for and being transparent in their impacts on the economy, the environment and society. Ethical behaviour 4.4 GRI 102 General Diclosures: 3. Ethics and Integrity Respect for stakeholder interests 4.5 GRI 102 General Diclosures: 5. Stakeholder Engagement Respect for the rule of law 4.6 SDR 2016: Compliance Respect for international norms of behaviour 4.7 Sustainability Context Principle GRI 102 General Diclosures: 2. Strategy Respect for human rights 4.8 SDR 2016: Commitment to Safeguarding Human Rights Recognizing social responsibility 5 and engaging stakeholders Recognizing social responsibility 5.2 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 6.Reporting Practice Stakeholder identification and engagement 5.3 GRI 102 General Diclosures: 5. Stakeholder Engagement Guidance on social responsibility core subjects 6 GRI 103 Management Approach Organizational governance 6.2 GRI 102 General Diclosures: 2. Strategy, 4. Governance Decision-making processes and structures 6.2.3 GRI 102-7: Scale of the Organisation Human rights 6.3 6.3.1 SDR 2016: Human Resources 6.3.2 Due Diligence 6.3.3 SDR 2016: Participation in Global Initiatives United Nations Global Compact, Supplier Relations In order to actively contribute to the safeguarding of human rights, special assessment criteria have been established for associates and suppliers Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 SDR 2016: Commitment to safeguarding human rights. See also 6.3.3 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 SDR 2016: Compliance, Investing in people's development Resolving grievances 6.3.6 SDR 2016: Customer service and Ombundsman for Banking Investment Services, Commitment to safeguarding human rights Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 SDR 2016: Customer service and Ombundsman for Banking Investment Services, Commitment to safeguarding human rights Civil and political rights 6.3.8 GRI 102-41: Collective Bargaining Agreements Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Labour practices 6.4 Labour practices 6.4.1 6.4.2 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Social dialogue 6.4.5 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Health and safety at work 6.4.6 SDR 2016: Providing a modern and safe working environment, Employee Assistance Programs EAPs Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 GRI 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 200 Sustainable Development Report ISO 26000 Corporate Responsibility Environment Unit 2010 Clauses GRI Standards The Environment 6.5 The Environment 6.5.1 6.5.2 Category Environment Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 GRI 305-7: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions GRI 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 GRI 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume GRI 301-2: Recycled input materials GRI 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization GRI 302-3: Energy Intensity GRI 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.5.5 GRI 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption GRI 305-1: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GRI 305-2: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 305-3: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) GRI 305-4: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity GRI 305-5: Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Protection of the environment, biodiversity 6.5.6 GRI 304-2: Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and restoration of natural habitats and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 304-3: Habitats protected or restored Fair operating practices 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.6.1 6.6.2 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 2. Strategy, 3. Ethics and Integrity, 4. Governance Anti-corruption 6.6.3 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 3. Ethics and Integrity Fair competition 6.6.5 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 3. Ethics and Integrity Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Category: Economic Respect for property rights 6.6.7 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 3. Ethics and Integrity Specific Standard Disclosures: Economic Performance Consumer issues 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.1 6.7.2 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling GRI 102-43, 44: Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information 6.7.3 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and fair contractual practices and labeling Protecting consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling Consumer service, support, and complaint 6.7.6 GRI 102-43, 44: Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction and dispute resolution Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 SDR 2016: Customer service and Ombundsman for Banking Investment Services, Commitment to safeguarding human rights Access to essential services 6.7.8 SDR 2016: Extensive branch network and accessibility Education and awareness 6.7.9 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling Sustainable Development Report 201 ISO 26000 Corporate Responsibility Environment Unit 2010 Clauses GRI Standards Community involvement and development 6.8 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported SDR 2016: Museum Network Community involvement and development 6.8.1 6.8.2 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported Community involvement 6.8.3 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported SDR 2016: Museum Network Education and culture 6.8.4 SDR 2016: Participation in Global Initiatives United Nations Global Compact, Commitment to safeguarding human rights Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 GRI 102: General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported Health 6.8.8 SDR 2016: Providing a modern and safe working environment, Employee Assistance Programs EAPs Social Investment 6.8.9 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported Guidance on integrating social responsibility 7 throughout an organization The relationship of an organization’s characteristics 7.2 GRI 102 General Disclosures to social responsibility Due Diligence 7.3.1 GRI 103 Management Approach Determining relevance and significance of core 7.3.2 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 6.Reporting Practice subjects and issues to an organization An organization’s sphere of influence 7.3.3 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 6.Reporting Practice Establishing priorities for addressing issues 7.3.4 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 6.Reporting Practice Setting the direction of an organization for social 7.4.2 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 2. Strategy responsibility Building social responsibility into an organization’s 7.4.3 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 4. Governance, governance, systems and procedures GRI 103 Management Approach Types of communication on social responsibility 7.5.3 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Enhancing the credibility of reports and claims 7.6.2 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile about social responsibility Reviewing an organization’s progress and 7.7.3 GRI 103 Management Approach performance on social responsibility Improving performance 7.7.5 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 4. Governance GRI 103 Management Approach Voluntary initiatives for social responsibility 7.8 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile 202 Sustainable Development Report
