Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Raising awareness among all our employees, starting with our Executive Management team.  Training our employees every year on Human Rights (do's and dont's).  Establishing Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights  Treating all clients, partners, and employees with integrity, respect, fairness and honesty.  All our employees are encouraged to act in an ethical manner as responsible corporate citizens, making a contribution to their community (in their respective locations) and the environment.  All our offices within the US and abroad follow the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  Providing the Ten Principles to each new employee and emphasizing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to each of them.  Assure Human resources complies with the established policies and promotes these procedures supporting Human Rights among employees and contractors.  Our policies describe specific actions to each of our offices on how to implement Human Rights policies, address any risks, and respond to any Human Rights violations, whether witnessed in our company or by any of our contractors or partners.  All our partners and contractors are given the same policy and encouraged to comply in order to do business with us. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Training our employees annually in Human Rights and the Ten Principles.  Track and monitor any complaints. We have had no incidents, violations or complaints. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Our company provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment without regard of race, color, religion, creed, gender, national or ethnic origin, age, marital or veteran status, sexual orientation, any handicaps or disabilities. Diversity is recognized as a value within our company, because we know that is what drives our company and the world forward. All employees and contractors are responsible and encouraged to build an atmosphere in each of our offices, free of discrimination and harassment on any basis. Values such as respect, teamwork, integrity, fairness and honesty are constantly reminded and encourage as an intrinsic part of our company culture. For this we also have policies and procedures recognizing the rights of our employees, their compensations, and benefits. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  Our policies and procedures are distributed to all employees, and we provide special training to any recruiting manager to make sure they understand and follow these principles.  We encourage diversity and this is reflected in our recruiting process.  Our company does not tolerate any discrimination or harassment by anyone within our company. To assure this we have procedures establish so employees can raise any complaints and concerns to Human Resources or to their direct report, depending on the type of complaint. They can also make anonymous complaints.  No employees are exempt from the requirements of this policy. Any individual who violates this policy will be subject to corrective action, up to and including unpaid suspension, or immediate termination. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Our company has 40% male representation and 60% women. Women and men are equally encouraged to career advancement and growth within our company.  This diversity is also represented in age breakdown, religions, marital status and other preferences.  This is represented in our Executive Management team where we have team members from different nationalities, races, creeds, etc.  12% of employees natively speak a language other than English.  Our CEO is a woman.  Our staff is diverse and multicultural, this diversity assures that we are following our objectives to have a diverse and talented team. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  We care for the environment and the world community. We encourage our customers to use environmentally sensitive printing processes and materials, in an attempt to minimize waste and reduce environmental impact.  We have clear policies and encourage our employees to print on used paper.  We seek to conduct our business according to the three pillars of sustainability. We use smart energy bulbs, electronics, and computers in our offices. All employees are encourage to turn on the lights only when needed and to turn off the lights whenever they are not at the office.  We encourage and have policies for recycling and composting.  We promote green marketing alternatives among our clients and partners.  Use only recycled materials for event materials, where possible. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  We have written policies that are distributed to all new employees. We also train our employees and contractors in these policies.  Our clients also know that we apply green marketing techniques, promoting green printing materials and using technology to reduce printing as much as possible.  We have signage at our office to remind all our employees about these principles, such as recycling bins and signage of what is recyclable and compostable.  Reminders to turn lights off.  We have labeled bins for reusable paper that can be used for printing.  We only buy 100% recycled paper in all our offices.  We recycle all printer ink.  We only purchase energy smart bulbs, computers, and other electronics including printers.  We use technology to share and revise documents vs. printing.  We conduct electronic invoicing and reporting to clients and partners. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  We support the work of the UN Convention Against Corruption, we work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  We ensure all our employees behave in an ethical manner consistent with these values. This includes, but it is not limited to the United States, we apply these principles in any location we do business around the world. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  We regulate the offering or receipt of gifts, hospitality or expenses.  We maintain accurate records which properly and fairly document all financial transactions.  We have a zero tolerance policy for systematic corruption or activities that could be seeing as malfeasance.  We have strict policies that all employees must comply regarding this principle. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  There have been no reports of conflict of interest or bribery within the company or in any of our locations.  We also have no incidences or other ethical breaches.  The goal of zero is expected for the next years as we continue to emphasize our zero tolerance policy among all our employees.
