UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited Corporate Office Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited 1-A Danepur Road, GOR-1, Lahore, Pakistan COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Contact: +92-42-36311881-3 15TH OF AUGUST 2017 www.hitechlubricants.com shaukat@masgroup.org Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 13.07.2016 To: 11.08.2017 Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT .................................................................................................................. 3 OUR MISSION .......................................................................................................................... 4 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ......................................................................................... 7 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS............................................................................. 7 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME ...................................................................................... 9 LABOR PRINCIPLES ........................................................................................................... 22 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 23 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ................................................................................... 25 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 25 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 26 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ................................................................................ 29 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 29 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 30 SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... 31 2|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 3|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 Our Mission “Earning customer satisfaction through provision of quality services to our client system by employing state of the art technologies and processes and by investing in our stakeholders” Our Vision “Delivering Products & Services for Client Satisfaction” Our Corporate Values Respect – We value people Quality – We make you ask for us Integrity – We provide the real deal Responsible – We value our community About Us Hi-Tech Lubricants is ISO 9001:2015 Certified Company. We have been hitherto focusing marketing efforts mainly in the retail markets and our performance in industrial sector has been satisfactory and our products are available in more than seventy-two stations in Pakistan through our network of distributors. With a well-trained marketing team, we provide quality service to our clients. The lubricants we are marketing in Pakistan are manufactured by the world renowned M/s SK Corporation, South Korea. SK facilities and its products have the required ISO approval i.e. ISO 9002 and the coveted Environment Management System ISO 14001. 4|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 In the Lubricant Sector, SK enjoys an enviable position as it is the single largest producer for VHVI Base Oil. Our experience in grass root marketing, the strong and motivated field force and extensive network of distributors all over the country enable us to offer strong marketing base for launching new products in Pakistan. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPOSIBILITY EXCELLENCE 2016-17 Hi-Tech Lubricants limited wins Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2017 Hi-Tech outshined yet again and benched its mark in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility by winning the CSR Award for the year 2016-17. Hi-tech declared victorious through a panel of judges who after examining HTL’s vision and contributions in the field of Corporate Social responsibility, unanimously decided to give this prestigious award to our organization. The decision of the panel was subsequently been ratified by the governing body of National Forum for Environment & Health (NFEH) & CSR Club. The award was presented during the 9th Annual CSR Summit organized by National Forum of Health & Environment (NFEH) on the 19th January 2017 at Marriott Hotel, Islamabad. Prominent personalities 5|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 belonging to the Corporate Sector, Government Officials, NGO’s and Media were invited to acknowledge the organizations sincerely practicing CSR in its true essence. Winners of United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) Pakistan Business Excellence Award for the year 2014-15. Hi-Tech Lubricants contested for the category of Large National Companies and grabbed 2nd Prize as a “Lead UNGC Champion Organization” after being evaluated by a team of national and international Jury from the UNGC Forum. This award has been presented to Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited in recognition of our Best Practices in Embracing and integrating the founding principles of UNGC. Hi-Tech had the honor to receive the award with notable mention as an intensively active participant in Living the UN Global Compact Business Excellence Award Contest 2013-14. Hi-Tech is proud to be among fifty organizations those who have voluntarily subscribe to embrace the Ten Principles of UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT in their business practices. 6|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 5. Human Rights PRINCIPLE Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals 5.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We are devoted to UNGC Human Rights principles as reflected within our Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct upholds the international Human Rights principles as a whole. The following policies stated within our Code show our compliance with the above mentioned principles. Clause 1 Personal Maintenance: Employer and employees shall collectively encourage the work environment where all of us can practice the organizational values and job goals both effectively and efficiently. Clause 2 Health & Safety Environment Policy: Hi-Tech has successfully planned and developed Health & Safety Environment Policy which has been implemented and is monitoring optimum standards of hygiene, safety and general working conditions for our personnel and ensures compliance with applicable requirements. Moreover, we emphasize on mitigation of health loss, continual health and safety awareness via staff trainings and ensure an overall healthy and safe environment. Clause 3 Anti-Bullying and Discrimination: we have a zero tolerance policy for any type of intimidating or offensive environment. We are committed to maintaining a non-discriminatory workplace, free of bullying. Acts or threats of intimidation, sabotage, physical or mental harm, terrorization and similar activities are not tolerated. 7|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 Clause 4 Sexual Harassment at Workplace: We practice Zero Tolerance for sexual harassment, physical or mental, that contributes to a sexually offensive environment for either male or female. Clause 5 Fraud, Deception, Dishonesty, Bribery & Corruption: Hi-Tech upholds its value of never indulging in any fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or any third party. We do not get involved in bribery or corruption to retain the reputation for a long time. We do not choose business partners who indulge in such activities. We do not give, receive, ask for or permit anyone else to give bribes or undertake any corrupt activities to win new business share, retain existing MAS business or to further our interests. Clause 6 Whistle blowing Procedure: Hi-Tech respects the need to report any unfair, dishonest and corrupt practices by the employees. To ensure fair governance, quality work practices and an ethically congenial environment, HTL, as a company listed on Pakistan Stock Exchange has adopted and is in complete compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance, a comprehensive internal Code of Conduct and all other applicable laws and regulations. However, to mitigate constantly emerging risks of illegal or unethical practices such as noncompliance of legal and regulatory frameworks, insider trading, misconduct and malpractices, HTL in accordance with the Code of Corporate Governance, has devised and implemented a detailed policy to manage the risks of “Whistle-blowing”. This policy will not only address the aforementioned risks but will also safeguard the interests of our employees to freely communicate their genuine concerns in relation to any illegal or unethical practice being carried out to the Company. Clause 7 We are a Socially Responsible Business Entity: Hi-Tech upholds its value of treating everyone fairly, equally and also valuing diversity within the workplace while carefully practicing human rights. We are a socially responsible corporate citizen, providing opportunities to make desired changes within the community. We have developed robust policies and we try to make sure that our third party contractors or business partners reflect the same ethos in Human Rights principles as ours. We conduct businesses with entities that do not actively violate the International Human Rights standards. 8|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 We deal with suppliers that uphold Human Rights and promote the same to them through our business operations with them. 2. Measurement of outcomes: In the past 13 months Hi-Tech has achieved measurable improvements in our processes, systems and culture.  Disciplinary Committee Formulation: Disciplinary Committee which was formulated in 2014 is now actively in handling all kinds of grievances to smooth the working environment. The purpose of formulation of this committee is to make sure that Human Rights of each employee are protected, maintained and upheld at all levels.  Bi-Annual Management Reviews: As per our annual strategic review, our best practice involves bi-annual management review meetings A mid annual and annual meeting consisting of the BOD and all departmental heads takes place for the regular review of all company operations and business growth. Regular meetings also take place among the management for similar purposes.  BE CLEAN, LIVE HEALTHY CAMPAIGN AT ILMGAH SCHOOL Be Clean, Live Healthy Campaign is the mandatory engagement activity of Ilmgah students every year. By participating in this activity the students have learnt to keep themselves clean and also have become leant to personal Hygiene. HTL stresses that such good practice needs to be adopted and strictly followed in our country where health issues are one of the major concerns. 9|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 This campaign is mandatory for realizing that the habits learnt or followed at young age can easily get embedded into one’s personality and that the importance of hygiene should never be overlooked.  WORLD EGG DAY CELEBRATED AT ILMGAH Crack Open the Power of Protein Embrace your wellbeing with a daily dose of Egg. With a purpose of promoting the power of the astonishing egg, as the highest quality source of protein one can easily get access to, The event was planned for the students of Ilmgah where different activities were conducted highlighting the importance of having an egg in one’s routine diet. 10 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 The purpose of Celebrating World Egg Day in the Ilmgah was to educate students as well as staff members about the true value of eggs and the importance of high quality protein. Different colorful and fun filled activities were done engaging students to meet the purpose. It ensured a bumper success in the end as message effectively conveyed that Eggs are an excellent and affordable source of high quality protein.  MAKE PAKISTAN POLIO FREE – we’ll make it HTL in collaboration with Rotary International Club, Lahore observed Polio Day at Ilmgah, where the children under 5 were given polio vaccines by the ROTARY Team Members. This was organized to stand with the world in the global fight to eradicate Polio. The action taken under this perspective is to stay with the nation continued commitment and progress towards ending polio from root. The proper coverage was given from the Rotary platform through social media.  Helmet For All Campaign – we mean safety by all means In 2014-15, a Helmet for All campaign was implemented alongside Traffic Police Lahore with the objective of Creating awareness about benefit of wearing helmet among motor bike drivers. It was implemented through City Traffic Police Lahore Education Wing. 11 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017  Extending Collaboration with City Police HTL (ZIC Motor Oil) has always been at the forefront when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives regarding implementation of Traffic rules and regulations. Collaborating with traffic police in different cities in Pakistan ZIC has extended this collaboration to the city of Gujranwala by sponsoring police cabins to be placed throughout the city of Gujranwala in order to assist our law abiders perform their duties to the best of their capabilities.  REGULATING SYSTEMS FOR MOVING WHEELS: Over a year now, Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited (ZIC) has liaison with the City Traffic Police Department to help accelerate their efficiency towards their obligations on road. In this concern, Hi-Tech has created a fellowship with the City Traffic Police to regulate and systemize the traffic operations 24/7.  Traffic cones have been provided to discipline the Heterogeneous traffic flow in Lahore and to segregate the driving lanes and keep the flow smooth. 12 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017  For better view of driving indicators from the distance, wide yellow information reflector boards have been installed on GT Roads, with clear note “Heavy Traffic Vehicles (HTV) not allowed”  Keeping the duty officers safe from the scorching sun and from heavy showers proper sitting cabins with sheds have been built and umbrellas are distributed among road duty staff.  To educate people about the standard rules for driving and safety as par internationally, HiTech intensified on coaching basic art of driving to new learners. Thus, an initiative for a state of the art school was taken and now every month this school is producing 200 skillful drivers efficient to operate both types of vehicles (HTV, LTV).  Digital cameras were provided to vigilance branch to keep a regular check on duty staff round the clock. Visit to the Dream Team Centre “The Art of Living” an initiative by physically impaired group of young Individuals The Art of Living Centre is a bold initiative of a group of physically impaired young individuals who with every passing day grew confident and never gave up on to their dreams. They have bravely accepted the way life has come to them and have become a source of inspiration for so many alike. 13 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 To support in their challenging initiative of empowering disable to become self-dependent, HTL management made a visit to promote and contribute in their brilliant initiative. During their interaction with the management, it was amazing to see that the frequently done workshops for counseling in the centre have already started transforming negative mind sets to positive. We could see confident people around us who may have had weak appearance but were super strong at mind and heart. The whole centre has a customized design that makes the mobility for the special ones easy. Special text to speech applications have been introduced for the visually impaired to get easy access to using computers self-reliantly. Hi-Tech Lubricants Ltd -Providing mobility through wheels HTL is consistently working towards having a Sustainable Corporate social culture. During the year 2016-17, HTL has gained the momentum in advancing for the corporate sustainability through several major initiatives. Hi-Tech Lubricants limited sponsored company branded wheel chairs for the disabled during a CSR conference which was organized at University of Management and Technology in Collaboration with the Dreams Team the art of living. 14 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 HTL emphasis on setting up a positive mind set for these special ones and to treat the disabled as equals. They should not be left behind or pampered as specials but should be given equal opportunities in the challenging job market to prove their potentials. CSR Initiatives – Focusing Education HTL marking excellence under Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives in the field of Education In the year 2016-17 the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for HTL remained on Achieving Excellence in one of the burning and important sustainable development goals defined by the United Nations .i.e. “Quality Education”. Here in Pakistan, unfortunately schools are many that claim to provide basic education especially for the low income families but quality can rarely be seen. Sabra Hamida Trust was founded with a strong and broad vision. The vision that aligns with Global, Economic social and environmental shifts, which in turn animates SHT’s mission and values. SHT Board of Trustees is a combination of internationally recognized professionals from various disciplines. Under SHT Ilmgah Girls/Boys Middle School is borne out of a commitment to achieve academic excellence. Ilmgah Painting messages of respect, hope and happiness HTL management is devoted on nurturing young talents by introducing specialized workshops at Ilmgah, encouraging them to cultivate their promising and dynamic future. Hence, it is one of their key thrust that reflects their commitment with the students of Ilmgah. 15 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 The School management brought forward selected students of Ilmgah who had a spark for painting, to appear in a contest “Live it, Sketch it, Share it”. This activity was initiated in collaboration with “The Dream Team Organization” working for physically impaired. The aim of the contest was to expose children with or without disabilities to art and to assess their interpretation to art and its forms. On a broader note, the competition intended to encourage and spread a clear message to the educational institutions for disabled children as well as the underprivileged to include art studies as a regular subject in their curriculum. It was indeed a new learning experience for the students of Ilmgah where they gave their best in bringing on canvas their artistic skills. It was amazing to see few art pieces from students who highlighted threatening issues that our country has been facing for the last few decades. ILMGAH STUDENTS participated in the Pakistan’s Annual Spellathon Competition Spellathon an initiative by WWF, is a nation-wide spelling competition, for schools, which through a series of written quizzes promotes contemporary knowledge of the environment among the youth of the country in a fun and exciting way. It is an environmentally driven educational initiative targeting the youth of Pakistan. 16 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 In this regard, the management made Ilmgah students from class grade 5 to grade 8 to participate in this informative activity. It turned out to a great success in raising awareness and understanding for the need to conserve, protect and manage Pakistan’s natural resources among the young minds of our nation. Students were immensely excited to be a part of the event and they participated enthusiastically in pre – test discussions with their class fellows and teachers. Parents also considered it a beneficial exposure to environmental and conservation issues for the kids and a vital source of confidence building and urged to have such productive activities as part of School’s calendar. HTL arranges Lahore Lahore hai tour for Orphanage house from Peshawar Every child has his birth-right to get education, to play and enjoy the childhood amusements. School Educational trips are also one among them. Their purpose is essentially to educate, while they may also be a fun bonding experience for everyone involved. Recognizing on having Educational trips in the positive development of student’s life, Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited arranged “LAHORE LAHORE HAI” tour for students from an orphanage house of Peshawar. 17 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 The students got the life time opportunity to experience life of Lahore, its historical buildings while travelling on the roads. The students were taken to Badshahi Masjid and Minar e Pakistan where they enjoyed their best time. They took the learning with great curiosity and interest. Students were extremely grateful and delighted to be on such a trip. It turned out advantageous particularly for those students who are less fortunate and don't have the opportunity to travel places. The tour ended with a desire to have such educational road trips blended with fun and learning in the future too. Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited hosts Sports Festival for Special Children Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited organized and sponsored the Annual Rotary Sports Festival for special Children in collaboration with the Model Town Rotary Club of Lahore. Mr. Shaukat Hassan Chairman HTL who is also the president for the club, took the initiative himself to have it arranged under his supervision and gave the Hi-Tech family an opportunity to volunteer. ZIC Motor oil was the official sponsor of the event being a brand that has become synonymous with social work and events that means investing in the developing and nurturing the future generation of Pakistan, be it the initiative of Ilmgah or investing in the safety of general public with initiatives involving traffic police. 18 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 This year, the event was attended by more than 1000 underprivileged children and those with special needs, coming from all over Punjab and Peshawar. Despite the sunny day, students remained super energetic and charged during games. The students impressed every one with their perseverance and strength. Special goodie bags and lunch boxes were prepared by the HTL volunteers on this occasion. This event was an appreciation to the Students who have learned to bravely welcome life as it has come to them. These children were a source of inspiration for all of us to learn to never give up in the face of whatever life may throw at us. ZIC KI EIDI – Hi-Tech Lubricants ltd visits SUNDUS FOUNDATION Eid is just around the corner and while the occasion brings with it immense joy it also saddens to find people who by Allah’s will somehow cannot enjoy the pleasures of EID to its fullest. And this ultimately asks for our due responsibility to take special care towards them. Eid is the best occasion for celebration and exchange of gifts. And Eid gifts can undoubtedly be the most exciting way of expressing our love, care and respect for them. Hi-tech lubricants ltd collaborated with Sundus Foundation under its CSR initiative to share and celebrate EID through “ZIC ki EIDI” with children suffering from life threatening diseases like blood cancer, Thalesemia, hemophilia etc. Through this initiative the management of Hi-Tech Lubricants ltd kept its commitment of “Giving back to the Society” by visiting Sundus 19 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 Foundation to spread the joys of EIDI. To receive EID dresses, watches, toys, Bangles along with children’s favorite sweets and candies were a real excite for the children. The day concluded on spending some quality time with the children and Sundus staff. The Chairman Hi-Tech also presented a cheque to the CEO of Sundus Foundation as a token of gratitude for their untiring efforts towards spreading hope among the ill-fated children. 20 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 HTL arranges ILMGAH KFC trip Ilmgah like every other school has involved its students in both educational and recreational activities. It has helped developed a child's mental and physical skills, and also developed their awareness of society. To achieve this, Ilmgah had planned an exciting and fulfilled trip to KFC last month. It was an invigorating experience for each student and their confidence was up-lifted being seated there, among their friends, eating one of the most exotic and tempting food they always wished to have. Ilmgah has always looked forward to providing for these children what every privilidged child is gifted with. We are thankful for being that source of achievement for these special ones. 21 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 6.0. Labor Principle Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals: It is our goal to have a high rate of employee satisfaction with sound health. Hi-Tech is continuously developing its employee workforce and protection measures through employee trainings. We believe in the safety and protection of our employees especially those employed on the field for providing oil and gas services. As well as our warehouse staff responsible for storage and maintenance of our products. It is part of Hi-Tech’ vision and policy to recruit and hire employees without discrimination of race, color, religion, sex, age, language, physical condition etc. and treat them equally with respect to compensation and opportunities for advancement and career growth, including promotions & transfer. Ours is a culture of zero tolerance against any such discrimination and with an open door policy for all old and new employees. Various occupational hazards are associated with the nature of the work that Hi-Tech is engaged in. We provide appropriate medical attention in the event of serious incidents and subsequent injuries to personnel. We follow best practice through the provision of medical insurance to employees and their families that covers medical issues, assets and business risk. 22 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 6.2. Measurement of Outcomes: Hi-Tech is committed to achieve measurable improvements in our processes and systems with regard to UNGC Labor Principles.  ERADICATING CHILD LABOR THROUGH PROVISION OF EDUCATION: Our company is directly involved in abolishing child labor through the provision of education to those children of Green Town area, Lahore who have no other means of acquiring education to score a bright future for themselves. Ilmgah School is involved in this community development project since 2011.  Grievance Handling and Harassment policy: We have reviewed and updated our Harassment and Grievance policy procedures for fair and confidential resolution of all such related conflicts. As previously discussed, our Audit and Human Resources Divisions have created a transparent and accountable system through Disciplinary Committee. The committee ensures fulfillment of all accountability requirements throughout their appeals procedures. We have also ensured that our employees are aware of these procedures and the routes they can take to get their complaints addressed and resolved.  HSE Trainings Series In the year 2017 HTL keeps focuses on enhancing its business success by reducing risks and adding values to its services and people. Organization wide training series designed for 2016 continued in the same spirit during 2017 to act in accordance with the ISO 14001 (Environment Management Systems) and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety) Standards. Following to this HTL has so far conducted following learning sessions on;  Manual handling & Injury prevention Skills  Defensive Driving  Fire Evacuation Drill HTL management is consistent in its efforts to promote HSE culture in the company. It focuses on educating and explaining HSE rules and regulations to employees. 23 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 At the same time, HTL compels its employees to obtain essential practical knowledge about emergency handling procedures to minimize the harmful consequences of injuries and occupational illness. Continuing the HSE training series, Fire Evacuation Drill was conducted in Lahore lead by the external facilitator Mr. Hassan Zahid in collaboration with the administration department. The corporate office staff along with the Board of Directors also participated in the drill. The training provided the employees with must to-do guidelines associated with emergency evacuation procedures. s 24 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 7.0. Environmental Principle Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 7.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals Within the scope of our business activities, Hi-Tech understands the value and worth of a sustainable environment. We are committed towards saving energy and using minimum resources for our activities to save national resources. Our environmental activities and following policy is reflective of our support towards UNGC environmental principles.  Environmental Policy: Our Code of Conduct clearly states that “we actively make efforts to create and maintain a clean and sustainable green environment.” We take responsibility for people and the environment. We are committed to the wellbeing of our employees and to the care of our environment. We conduct business activities in a way that is safe for our employees, our contractors, visitors to our sites, the communities we operate in, and our environment. We protect the environment by preventing or minimizing the environmental impact of our activities and products through appropriate design, distribution and disposal practices. 25 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 7.2. Measurement of Outcomes: Hi-Tech has established standardized processes for measurable improvements in our environmental processes, systems and culture. These procedures and policies lie at the core of our products and development.  Our Environment Friendly Products: Our products are standardized so as to decrease their hazardous effect on the environment. Our products are certified as being environment friendly. Our brand provides ILSAC (International Lubricants Standardization and Approval Committee) approved lubricants which show Environment Friendly characteristics as mentioned below: 1. More fuel economy. 2. Low wear rate of engine metallic parts which can destroy the environment 3. Low SAPS (Sulphated Ash, Phosphorus and Sulphur) 4. Maximum emission control system (exhaust gas catalytic converters) protection 5. Compatible with CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy) Laws 6. Low engine smoke generation  HSE training on Environment Awareness To comply with the ISO 14001 (Environment Management Systems standards, HTL arranged a productive learning session on Environment Awareness & Energy Conservation for its employees. The session gave a practical realization to the participants about the fragility of our environment and the importance of its protection. The session educated the audience by defining practical framework as how to identify ways to reduce the organization’s environmental impact and energy costs. 26 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 TO ACT RESPONSIBLE IS OUR CORE VALUE HI-TECH INITIATES SEASON’S PLANTATION DRIVE FROM GCU Our Flag is GREEN – So is Hi-Tech Family. Continuing the efforts on supporting a sustainable clean environment, Hi-tech Lubricants limited started its first series of Plantation drive for the year 2016-17 from Government College University by donating almost 1000 plants in a row. This prestigious occasion was organized in the historical main campus building of GCU. Vice Chancellor GCU and the University’s senior faculty members participated in planting the first batch of the plants at the University’s Scholars Garden to inaugurate the tree plantation drive. 27 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 The VC of the GCU acknowledged this initiative and HTL’s vision of Green Pakistan. The provided plants aimed not only to beautify the university’s campus but mainly to serve the cause of benefitting clean environment. HTL endeavors on taking serious attention about the world greatest problem like environmental pollution, heavy deforestation which is causing grave and irreparable damage to the earth and people. We believe that green symbolizes Tranquility, Freshness, Harmony, Calming and Health. It also refers to safety. And working in the Lubricant sector directly calls for safety of the environment too. By taking this initiative HTL gave a clear message that we shall continue to plant more and more for the sake to keep a clean and green environment and to compensate the damage that is caused by the different emissions of chemicals and gases. HTL conceptualize that Tree plantation should be adopted in our life style and not a one-time campaign. OBSERVED EARTH HOUR WITH WWF PAKISTAN Being the member of World Wild Federation-Pakistan and realizing that Earth Hour is the biggest and most recognizable environmental event to combat climate change HTL participated in the launching ceremony of EARTH HOUR 2017 nationwide. This participation ensured huge awareness among masses and felt the importance to observe the Earth hour 2017 by switching off lights for one hour from 8:30 to 9:30 in the evening. Community Knowledge Sharing Sessions: In order to decrease pollution through our products, we also organize events to share the efficient use of our products with minimum environmental damage through our product professionals. The objective of these seminars is to spread awareness in the community regarding the safety of engine and environment. These seminars are intended towards Mechanics, Oil Changers, Transporters, Rent a cars, Heavy Duty Transport, Army Engineers and Institutional Transport. We have been proudly carrying out this initiative since 2003. City wise seminars are conducted throughout Pakistan imparting awareness of lubricants efficiency and knowledge to the external stakeholders. A post analysis is done at the end of all knowledge sharing sessions through the initiative of the speaker. Feedback is collected from the audience, and a dynamic Q & A session verifies the extent of impact generated. General awareness 28 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 regarding environmental protection is provided to engine oil users and regular visits to various service centers ensure practical effectiveness of the knowledge shared through implementation at these service centers. 1. USE of ENERGY SAVING Technology – IDEAL FOR CONSERVING ENERGY Global warming is one of the biggest problems the world is facing today. Hi-Tech acts responsibly to avoid its causes. Hi-Tech has deployed energy savers with SMD (Surface Mount Device) – LED (Low Emission Diode) Technology. HTL believes that by making small changes now, in the way we live we can avoid huge changes in the future. 8. Anti-Corruption Principle Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 8.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals: Our Code of Conduct has a specific clause for “FRAUD, DECEPTION, DISHONESTY, BRIBERY & CORRUPTION” as detailed below” “Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited upholds its value of never indulging in any fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or any third party. Fraud basically means to deceive or to act dishonestly or to abuse your power or position to take advantage of an individual or the company assets. We do not get involved in bribery or corruption to retain the reputation for a long time. We do not choose business partners who indulge in such activities. We do not give, receive, ask for or permit anyone else to give bribes or undertake any corrupt activities to win new business share, retain existing MAS business or to further our interests.” 29 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 8.2. Measurement of Outcomes According to UNGC Anti-Corruption Principle, Hi-Tech has been trying to achieve measurable improvements in our related processes and systems.  Anti-Corruption Check System: We have an effective Anti-Corruption check and balance system. Headed by our Internal Audit and Planning Department. This system overviews all business Operations and supply chain procedures to make sure that we are 100% in compliance with the ISO standards.  Inventory Transparency Check System: Our Market Audit and Procurement teams jointly follow a Transparency check procedure for gifts procurement from our inventory or external market. A trade scheme is announced firstly based on point value. Gifts are allocated based on those points (purchase bars of our product). A claim listing all gifts is forwarded to the market audit department who verify the list and offer the complete list of existing gifts within our inventory to the procurement department. Then these items are procured from within our inventory through the above mentioned transparency check procedure. 30 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2017 9. Summary Through our various activities, sessions and implemented processes, we continue our journey towards the acceptance, implementation and development of the 10 UNGC Principles relating to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption within our operations. Our future outcome is related to furthering this developmental process and to publish our next Communication on Progress (COP) with a broader spectrum of initiatives with a more strengthened foothold within the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. ALONE WE CAN DO SO LITTLE TOGETHER WE CAN DO SO MUCH ~HELEN KELLER~ 31 | P a g e
