Jet Time’s 2016/17 Communication on Progress Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Jet Time reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Our main focus this year has been on reducing our impact on the environment as well as fulfilling the standards of our ISO 14001:2015-recertification. Two projects should be highlighted in this process: 1) To strengthen our ISO 14001:2015 obligations and our commitment to Global Compact’s focus on Environmental aspects, a larger group of Managers in Jet Time has been educated to manage environmental issues. 2) Jet Time has an active policy to reduce CO2 emissions on our flights. In 2016, we have commenced a phase-out plan for our Boeing 737-300 fleet, with the aim to consolidate our fleet to a unified fleet of Boeing 737-700 aircraft. The phase-out will be completed in the fall of 2017, after which we will see a considerable C02 reduction, compared to previous years. Consequently, we have as of 2017 therefore decided to reset our calculation of C02 reduction in order for our future savings to take its point of departure in our existing aircraft type, which is more fuel efficient than the -300 aircraft type. Being a responsible and sustainable company is a core value in Jet Time’s corporate identity, and we are committed to stepwise improving our corporate social responsibility. In the coming year, we will in Jet Time focus on both internal and external awareness of our corporate social responsibility activities, and we will make an effort to widen the awareness of this further into all levels of our company’s activities. Sincerely yours, Jørgen Holme Chief Executive Officer, Jet Time A/S JET TIME A/S Amager Strandvej 390-392 DK-2770 Kastrup Phone +45 32 46 73 00 www.jet-time.dk Side 2 af 7 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. At Jet Time, we adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Moreover, we have established a set of core values that underline the company's devotion to the Human Rights principles. Why are Human Rights important to Jet Time? In Jet Time, we believe that being a responsible business with respect for employees, clients and business partners is essential, and that treating all with respect, equal rights as well as ensuring a safe and healthy working environment is a must. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. In Jet Time, we have an Employee Handbook in which our values are expressed. Moreover, we have corporate policies regarding e.g. pregnancy, illness, working hours and health that ensure a flexible and accommodating working environment with respect and consideration for the individual employee. These policies are attended to continuously, and the Employee Handbook is regularly updated. In Jet Time, all employees are treated equal, and Jet Time does not discriminate on basis of gender, age, handicap, sexuality, religious conviction, race or political standpoints. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Jet Time has not received any complaint from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any human rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Side 3 af 7 Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. In Jet Time, there is a strong focus on ensuring the best possible working environment and working conditions for our employees in all of our different areas of employment. Our Employee Handbook describes Jet Times labor policy, which is applicable to all employees. Moreover, four different groups of employees are covered by collective agreements, and overall equal terms of employment have been granted to employees in the same occupational groups. Jet Time’s labor policy is continually revised on basis of new agreements and terms of employment. We want Jet Time to be a good place to work, and we therefore strive to create the best possible working conditions for our employees – with regards to health, professional development and social relations. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. As an airline, Jet Time has a strong focus on aviation safety and we execute our activities with the highest possible safety standard. Jet Time is certified to fly under the international safety standard IOSA, whose accredited auditors control our safety and working procedures on an ongoing basis. Moreover, Jet Time promotes a ‘Just Culture’ throughout the company. This means that all employees have access to an online reporting tool, where all potential safety issues can be reported confidentially and without consequence, thus creating more openness about mistakes and errors that can potentially lead to safety issues. Consequently, this creates a safer working environment with focus on communication and openness. In Jet Time we also believe in dialogue when it comes to terms and conditions of employment. Consequently, we will in 2017 be in dialogue with union representatives from JCU (Jet Time Cabin Crew Union) and PAJ (Pilot Association Jet Time) to settle on new collective agreements to the mutual benefit of airline and employees. Side 4 af 7 Measurement of outcomes Jet Time has a Health and Safety and Environment Policy and a Health and Safety and Environment Committee. The Committee motivates colleagues, ensures that the Health, Safety and Environment policies and requirements are met. This e.g. includes making sure that all tasks are planned and conducted to the highest Health and Safety standards and making sure that personnel is educated and instructed sufficiently. Jet Time is in close dialogue with union representatives to prevent labor right violations. Should a potential labor violation occur in relation to an employee’s employment, we will cooperate with the relevant union representative to reach a fair conclusion of the matter. Side 5 af 7 Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Jet Time is part of the airline industry that is known to put strain on the environment. The airline industry is said to be responsible for up to 3 % of the world’s annual C02 emission. As a responsible company, we are in Jet Time fervent to mitigate this impact on the environment. The key performance indicator for Jet Time’s operations and activities is defined as a more efficient fuel operation, lowering the CO2 emissions per airborne hour. Moreover, we are conscious of environmental protection in all other areas of our production, for example with regards to the food we serve on our flights and the office supplies we purchase for our administration. Jet Time has an Environmental Policy, which is communicated to all employees, contractors and suppliers. Moreover, Jet Time has an Environmental Management System (EMS) developed to manage significant environmental aspects to limit the impact on the environment. Since 2014, Jet Time has worked with environmental management under the ISO 14001:2015 certification and the EMS is established in accordance with ISO 14001:2015. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Together with the environmental policy, Jet Time’s environmental objectives and targets are established by the Environmental Management Committee on a biannual basis. The planning process commences with the identification and update of environmental aspects by the Committee who follow a “plan-do-check-act” cycle to facilitate continual environmental performance improvement. The ISO 14001:2015 contributes with process demands and tools that among other things ensure a systematic effort to reduce fuel consumption and the emission of greenhouse gasses. Moreover, the ISO 14001 provides the company with tools for environmental management in general throughout the entire production and organization. Jet Time has in the spring of 2017 fulfilled the requirement of ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 50001 Chap. 4.4.3. Side 6 af 7 Reducing carbon dioxide is a pivotal aspect of Jet Times environmental focus, as this by far is the single most relevant environmental denominator for Jet Time and the airline industry in general. In relation to our C02 emission, Jet Time is registered and reported by the regulations in EU Decree 2003/87EC where airlines can choose to register and report their C02 emission. In this connection, Jet Time has a goal of reducing the annual carbon dioxide emission from our fleet by 0.25 % annually. For the year 2015/16, Jet Time’s C02 reduction was 0.5 % measured on own flight compared to the year before. To reduce fuel consumption, winglets have been installed on all of our Boeing 737s, which improves up-thrust and optimizes fuel economy. The winglets cut off three to four percent of the fuel consumption. Moreover, we are working with economical altitudes on flights of more than one hour between 31,000 and 37,000 feet. In 2017, Jet Time will implement large changes in the airline’s fleet, which is expected to have a positive impact on the C02 emission from Jet Time’s aircraft. In the course of one year, six aircraft of the type B737-300, five B737-400s and 11 ATR72s will have been phased out, consolidating Jet Time’s fleet as a unified fleet consisting of six to eight B737700s only, after which we expect to see a considerable C02 reduction, compared to previous years. Consequently, we have in Jet Time as of 2017 therefore decided to reset our calculation of C02 reduction in order for our future savings to take its point of departure in our existing aircraft type, which is more fuel efficient than the -300 and -400 aircraft type. The unification of Jet Time’s fleet is expected to be finalized in the fall of 2017. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Jet Time’s Environmental Management System Committee monitors and measures environmental targets, performance and activities on a bi-annual basis. The results are recorded together with non-conformity and the corrective action and preventive action. Jet Time’s Security Manager is in charge of monitoring our ISO 14001:2015 certification as well as our C02 reduction targets. In cooperation with the Environmental Committee, the Security Manager carries out the commitments of CO2 reduction and compliance with environmental related legislation and measures the outcome of the different projects and initiatives. An annual internal and external audit makes sure that we live up to our ISO 14001:2015 certification. Side 7 af 7 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. Jet Time is against any kind of corruption and does not take initiative to financial or material bribery with the objective of commercial gain or influence. This applies for our relation to authorities, business partners and all other stakeholders. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. It is the responsibility of each employee to take a critical stance on corruption. In the instances where an employee receives a present from an existing or potential business partner, the employee is advised to use common sense to assess whether the gift is of symbolic character or it falls under the category of bribery. If the present is related to bribery, the employee must immediately return the present or decline receiving it. As employee in Jet Time, it is not allowed to accept financial gifts from business partners. In certain contexts – especially in airports outside Europe – Jet Time employees can be met with an ultimate demand of bribery. In these situations, the individual Captain must contact Jet Time’s management to make the most appropriate decision in the given situation. If a problem can be solved without meeting the demand of bribery, this will always be the more appropriate solution. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work within the last year. To ensure that no corruption should take place anyway, the company will ensure and continue a steadfast zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption.
