Teleplan CSR Annual Report 2016 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1. Statement from Chief Executive Officer Francois Lacombe We are a company that is passionate about enhancing the lifecycle of electronic products, their components and materials and keeping their highest utility and value at all times. Through our CSR section on our website and our annual CSR report we provide a detailed look at the progress Teleplan has made in our key priorities: transition to circular business processes, environmental responsibility and ethical sourcing in addition to areas like human rights and more. We also communicate our CSR vision for the future which includes ambitious, measurable goals for innovating services and solutions to extend product life; creating an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace; promoting and encouraging employee charity fundraising through matched funding among other important CSR targets. We have made good progress and gains in each of these areas over the past year and I look forward to sharing these developments. By living our values and acting with purpose we continue to evolve our CSR story. François Lacombe Chief Executive Officer 2. Introduction Teleplan provides lifecycle care solutions for technology products. The company’s expertise is in extending the lifecycle of electronic devices through the provision of a range of services which include customer care and reverse logistics; screening and testing; parts management; repair, refurbishment and resale. When the product lifecycle cannot be extended parts and materials are harvested and reused or disposed of responsibly. The company has been in operation for 34 years. Headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Teleplan supports customers in over 120 countries from its service centers in Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific and employs 5000 people. Working closely with its customers, leading consumer electronics brands, the company is continually innovating to ensure its services keep up with advances in technology. Teleplan plays a vital role in mitigating the social and environmental impacts of the global consumer electronics industry. Sustainability is at the core of the business in the development and provision of services which keep products in use for as long as possible and maximise the value of parts and materials at end of life. Teleplan’s experience, expertise and proven track record in providing leading electronics brands with after-market services which optimise the value and utility of their products means it is well placed to take a leadership role in the global movement to transform to a circular economy. Teleplan is the first after-market services provider to become a member of the Circular Economy 100 Network. Teleplan’s commitment to sustainability is underpinned by the management of the ethical, social and environmental impacts of the business. Principally these are: 1  innovation of services and solutions to extend product life  meeting the highest ethical standards in the conduct of the business  creation of an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper  ensuring the health, safety and well being of employees and facilities  the judicious consumption of energy  the responsible management of waste  charity fund raising and engagement with the community Teleplan manages these impacts through systems and procedures which are integral to day-to-day operations. The company maintains certification to internationally recognized standards. The Company has a comprehensive Code of Conduct, translated into seven languages and fully disseminated across the organization. It works to the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code. EICC is a coalition of the world’s leading electronics companies which works with a common code of conduct to improve social, ethical and environmental responsibility in the global electronics supply chain. Teleplan recognizes the importance of meeting customers’ requirements to ensure an ethical supply chain and has set the EICC Code as the standard it works to. It is assessed annually by EcoVadis and has achieved a Gold rating. It is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and in 2016 published its first Communication of Progress (COP) on the UN Global Compact website. The Teleplan Management Board agrees objectives and targets to ensure that the social and environmental impacts of the business are managed appropriately. A report on progress towards the achievement of these targets is made to the Management Board annually. The annual CSR report is published on the Teleplan website. 2 3. CSR milestones achieved to date 2010 ongoing Certification 2014 to Teleplan 2014 EICC Environment Code of Labor and and H&S 2013 CSR 2013 EICC Conduct 2014 Ethics Lead 2014 First standards charter Code of 2014 CSR translated EcoVadis Auditors annual CSR 2015 ISO 14001, defined and Conduct KPIs agreed into 7 Bronze trained and report EcoVadis ISO18001 published adopted and reported languages rating qualified published Silver rating 2016 Authorised Treatment Facility (AATF) 2015 2016 Circular achieved at Participate in 2016 UN Economy 2016 Circular UK service CDP (Carbon 2015 2016 Join Global customer 2016 Circular Economy center for Disclosure Signatory to Circular 2016 Compact experience Economy Product the Project) UN Global Economy EcoVadis report center White Paper Passport treatment of Supply Chain Compact 100 Network Gold rating published opened published piloted e-waste 4. The challenge and opportunities of electronics waste – a closer study Due to the increasing number of connected devices coming on the market, too many old, disused, or discarded electronics are dumped well before the end of their useful life. A problem that is getting worse each year. Having optimal recycling schemes is one solution to this increasing waste mountain, prolonging the life cycle of these devices by encouraging sales of second-hand devices is an alternative and growing trend. Deloitte predict that the growth rate of the used Smartphone market will be four to five times higher than the overall Smartphone market by the end of 2016. But we are yet to see this offset the growing global e-waste mountain. It will take time to convince consumers who want to upgrade to the latest Smartphone, but do not consider trading in their old one. Wearables are also adding to the e-waste problem. Industry analysts IDC predict that worldwide shipments of smart watches will reach 126.1 million units by 2019. Virtual Reality headset shipments are predicted to create a $2.8 billion hardware market by 2020, compared to around $37 million in 2015. With this influx of devices, manufacturers and retailers have not only a duty of care as good corporate citizens to ensure that electronic products pass back into the manufacturing cycle and components reenter the supply chain, but also potentially lucrative additional business opportunities. Additional revenue streams Offering trade-in or buyback programmes when selling new devices saves the consumer money, creates additional revenue streams and promotes brand loyalty. Business models such as sharing, renting, leasing, re-selling, or hardware-as-a-service can also extend use/re-use of equipment or their components resulting in more used equipment in the market. Adding an extra level of trust for the consumer 3 Major electronics companies can strengthen consumers’ confidence in buying used products by promoting proper testing and verification of used product. Processes that ensure used smart devices or hard drives entering the second-hand market have gone through proper data deletion processes compliant to recognised industry standards are essential. Offering enhanced or out of warranty programmes also provides an additional layer of trust. Educating consumers and circular economy Product lifecycle and their associated value chains should be critical considerations for all manufacturers. The industry needs to come together to educate consumers and businesses on what to do with their unwanted products and build effective reuse and recycling strategies as consumer demand for second-hand electronic devices shows no sign of abating. 5. Innovation of services to extend product life Launch of smart phone testing platform Innovation is at the core of Teleplan’s focus on extending product lifecycle. The continuous improvement of systems which reduce test cycles, increase levels of automation, improve productivity and output quality, and are controlled and verified through collected data points ensure after-market services are cost effective and deliver customer satisfaction. In the first half of 2016 the company launched its latest innovation in its Revolution Ecosystem Platform. This fully automated, smart phone testing platform provides consistent, reliable and objective testing for the majority of smart phones. It delivers increased productivity and fault detection accuracy and reduces test times by up to 70%. The high quality, flexible, repeatable, full functional testing enables the diagnosis of a fault and enables the right disposition decision in respect of repair, refurbishment, same unit return, swap, resell or recycle. Test results can also be used to improve upstream fault detection in customer service processes and in the new build environment thus contributing overall to reducing returns and extending product life. Working with customers on bespoke solutions to address electronic waste In the second half of the year Teleplan established an out-ofwarranty exchange service for Microsoft Surface and Xbox products. The service supplies replacement products which have been refurbished by Teleplan to the original manufacturing standard. The products come with a new 60-day warranty and offer a cost effective alternative to new product. The service is compliant with Microsoft IP and waste/data regulations and promotes the reuse rather than disposal of products. Another example of circular economy in operation is the service Teleplan provide to Sky Italia of refurbishing set-top boxes. The quality of the refurbished product is of a standard which enables Sky Italia to use it for new prospect customers. This reduces the purchase of new products. Extending the lifecycle of existing products and reusing returned products are key sustainability objectives for Sky Italia. Teleplan is also a key technical consultant to the company applying the data and analysis derived from repair services to the development of new products. Contributing thought leadership Teleplan joins the Circular Economy 100 network The Circular Economy 100 network is a global platform bringing together leading companies, emerging innovators and regions to accelerate the transition to a circular economy. A circular economy is an economic model in which resources are kept in use for as long as possible, the 4 maximum value is extracted from them whilst in use, and products and materials are recovered and regenerated at the end of life. Teleplan is the first company operating in after market services to join the network. By extending the useful life of a product it not only maximises value but also reduces consumption rates for components needed to produce new electronics. In turn this helps society move towards a more circular economy. Retail channels are increasingly promoting used items and selling a variety of refurbished products. Smartphone manufacturers have indicated their intention to sell second-hand smartphones in 2017. This has the potential to develop and grow new markets. In the second half of 2016 Teleplan established a Circular Economy Customer Experience Center (CECEC) at its service center in Zoetermeer, The Netherlands to support the company’s engagement with customers on circular economy. It facilitates the development of circular economy solutions such as value recovery and harvesting, ensuring products, materials and components retain value and continue in use. Similar centers are planned for the Americas and Asia Pacific regions in 2017. The company has also initiated a product passport pilot. The key purpose of which is to capture data points from each product serviced by Teleplan including the parts, components and materials which are in the product with the objective of identifying which components and materials can be re-used, melted down or recycled into other products. The data enables smarter, faster and more effective decisions in the supply chain in relation to re-use, harvest, or residual value. Focus on circular economy recognized by Malaysia Sustainability Award 2016 Teleplan Penang has been awarded the MSA 16 Elite Sustainability Award for its circular economy projects which include the development and piloting of a product passport. The MSA also recognized the contribution to circular economy made by the Teleplan Penang operation in re-certifying, reconfiguring, assessing and recovering electronic devices and managing electronic waste. 6. Ethical Conduct of the business Teleplan Code of Conduct The Teleplan Code of Conduct prescribes the important legal and ethical principles that all Teleplan employees, managers and directors must observe in conducting the company’s business. It provides a standing guide for handling business situations and determining key business decisions and actions in an honest, ethical and professional manner. Teleplan’s Code of Conduct is published on the corporate website and communicated to employees when they join the Company. It is translated into the seven principal languages used across the company and includes information on how to raise concerns, issues or suspected violations of the Code. Employees confirm their understanding of the Code and compliance to it through a written signoff process. Teleplan has an established whistle blowing policy and procedure which ensures that any individual can report in confidence and without fear of reprisal, actual or alleged breaches of the Teleplan Code of Conduct. Reports are managed by the General Counsel. There were no unresolved issues in 2016. Teleplan achieves a Gold rating in leading ethical standards assessment Teleplan has participated in the social and environmental assessment survey operated by EcoVadis, 5 the leading and highly respected organization in this field, for each of the last three years and in 2016 achieved a Gold rating. This is the result of a comprehensive and continual improvement program and places Teleplan in the top 5% of the organizations EcoVadis assesses. Teleplan working to international standards Many of Teleplan’s customers are members of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), a coalition of the world’s leading electronics companies which works with a common code of conduct to improve social, ethical and environmental responsibility in the global electronics supply chain. Teleplan recognizes the importance of meeting customers’ requirements to ensure an ethical supply chain and has set the EICC Code as the standard it works to. To ensure that Teleplan has appropriately trained people to lead the process of assessment and audit to the EICC Code three members of the Quality Management team are trained and qualified as EICC Labor and Ethics Lead Auditors. EICC and SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA) are undertaken on an ongoing basis and were conducted at 3 of Teleplan’s service centers this year. Teleplan maintains its certification to international standards. The three principal standards it works to are the environmental standard ISO 14001, health and safety OHSAS/ISO 18001 and quality ISO 9001. Targeting internationally recognized e-waste management standards A number of Teleplan’s facilities are working towards certification to internationally recognised ewaste management standards notably WEEELABEX in Europe and R2 in the Americas. These standards are covered in more detail in the section on waste management in this report. 6 Teleplan Service Centers ISO Certifications and Recycling Standards Square ISO OHSAS Recycling Site meterage ISO 9001 14001 18001 standards Bydgoszcz 10,372    WEEE licence 2017 Prague 13,820    WEEE licence 2017 WEEE licence 2,508 ABTO Havant   x Zoetermeer 15,713    WEEELABEX 2017 Tallinn 736  x x x Hasselt 650 x x x x Mexicali 31,200    R2 2017 Roseville 45,522    R2 2017 Dallas 6,596  2017 2017 R2 2017 Reynosa 13,178  2017/18 2017/18 R2 2018 Harrisburg 10,405  x x x Penang 25,557    x Hong Kong 3,562  x x x Singapore 1,551   x x Suzhou 4,605    x Jakarta 1,296  x x x Ethical supply chain Teleplan expects its major local or regional suppliers to be aligned with and meet the social, environmental and ethical standards of the EICC Code of Conduct. This is the standard to which the company works and which has been adopted by many of its customers. Teleplan provides its customers with service solutions which range from simple repairs to highly sophisticated technological and electronic solutions. The units and components required to undertake these service solutions are purchased primarily from the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) or from a supplier designated by the OEM. In these instances which are the bulk of Teleplan’s activity Teleplan does not determine the supplier or source of the component. In other instances Teleplan purchases industry standard parts. Teleplan does not subcontract the manufacturing of any units or components. Whilst a material part of the supply chain is determined by the customer, Teleplan recognises the importance of its role in driving ethical practices in the supply chain. 7. Creation of an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace Teleplan employs some 5,000 people across multiple service centers and geographies. The recruitment, employment, training and development, health, safety and well being of these employees are integral to the prosperity and success of the business. 7 Teleplan is committed to developing and maintaining a workplace and working environment in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper. Teleplan has established management systems which ensure that the business:  Complies with all non-discrimination requirements and provides equal opportunities in employment at every level.  Maintains an environment which promotes inclusion and diversity where individuals are free from any physical, sexual, psychological, verbal or visual harassment or abuse  Observes all applicable restrictions on the maximum hours employees are legally permitted to work  Pays employees at least the minimum wage required by local law and provides all legally mandated benefits  Upholds the right to freely chosen employment and does not use forced, indentured or bonded labor  Requires a minimum age requirement for employment consistent with local law  Upholds the right to freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining in accordance with applicable laws and regulations These policies and procedures apply equally to permanent and temporary contract employees. Employees are encouraged to take up development opportunities which are available through a variety of channels including e-learning, on-the-job learning and coaching. The e-learning system offers 75 courses on a wide variety of subjects including business ethics, leadership, LEAN management, communication, negotiation, project and risk management. Teleplan promotes a sharing culture with its social networking service Teleplan recognizes the importance of effective, open dialogue between employees in engendering an inclusive, supportive and value-led culture. The organisation uses multiple employee communications channels including quarterly CEO updates, a bi-monthly employee newsletter INTOUCH and monthly town hall meetings in the service centers. In 2016, the company rolled out Microsoft Office 365 globally and introduced Yammer, an enterprise wide social networking service. Available to all Teleplan employees, it enables individuals to initiate dialogue with their colleagues quickly, easily and effectively. Using a platform similar to Facebook it provides opportunities to share knowledge, information and news, ask questions and discuss current issues. It facilitates access to and the sharing of documents, data, project plans and contributes to efficient and effective teamwork. 8. Health and Safety of employees and facilities Health and safety performance Teleplan began collecting health and safety data in 2014 and can now analyze trends in the number of accidents and lost-time injuries. 8 In 2016 the number of Lost Time Cases per 100 employees (as defined by OSHA) increased to 0.92 per 100 employees (2015: 0.77 per 100 employees). The absolute number of lost-time cases was 45 (2015:38). The absolute number of days lost as a result of these cases was 1,515 (2015:287). The Severity Rate was 34 days in 2016 (2015: 3.8 days). This means that for every recordable incident in 2016 an average of 34 days was lost due to work related injuries and illnesses. This increase was the result of two recordable incidents at one service center and four recordable incidents at a second service center which resulted in a significant number of days lost. Both of these service centers are OHSAS 18001 certified. Certification to OHSAS 18001 was maintained at seven service centers and plans are in place to further extend OHSAS 18001 certification to two additional service centers in 2017. Teleplan Havant achieves accreditation to Wellbeing in the Workplace Charter The Wellbeing in the Workplace Charter is a UK accreditation programme which focuses on an organisation’s commitment to the health, safety and wellbeing of its employees. There are three levels of accreditation in the Charter – Commitment, Achievement and Excellence. Havant have undertaken a six month programme to achieve the first level, with an objective of reaching the second by the time of the next assessment in 2018. The aim of the Charter is to signpost employees to where they can gain relevant information and support both for themselves and their families in areas such as mental health, healthy eating, smoking, active lifestyle, stress management and travel-related health advice. Initiatives include a monthly wellbeing forum and health and safety meetings, a gym contribution scheme, Occupational Health service, independent employee assistance program and a yearly mental health fundraiser. Workouts at work Teleplan Mexicali have initiated a three minute wellbeing exercise programme. Easy movements are accompanied with music and the mini-break enables workers to stretch and relax their bodies. AED (Automated External Defibrillator) Training with Employees in Prague Supplementing the annual First Aid training programme Teleplan Prague have this year trained 20 employees in the use of the service centre’s AED. 9. Increased levels of activity reflected in increased energy consumption Teleplan began collecting energy consumption data in 2014 and can now analyze trends. Teleplan has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain program for the last two years. In the period 2014 to 2016, electricity consumption has decreased overall. 2016 saw an increase on the 2015 level of consumption although not to the level of 2014. Natural gas consumption returned to the 2014 level of consumption having decreased in 2015. Electricity consumption increased by 9.4% in 2016 to 44,030 MW/h (2015: 40,251 MW/h). Natural gas consumption increased by 12.7% to 273,000 m3 (2015: 242,000 m3). These increases in energy consumption were the result of increased levels of activity at a number of facilities. Levels of energy consumption are also impacted by the type of activity for example 9 automated testing processes can be more energy intensive than manual repair processes. In addition the company operated two fewer facilities in 2015 compared to the previous year. In 2016 the number of sites remained the same year-on-year. All major sites undertake energy management activities and engage employees in the judicious use of resources. Investment in energy efficient lighting has been made at several facilities as has improved alignment of energy usage to working hours. Employee awareness programs encourage turning off of equipment when not in use. Electricty Consumption 50,000 40,000 30,000 EMEA MHw APAC 20,000 AMER 10,000 2014 2015 2016 Natural Gas Consumption 300,000 250,000 200,000 Meters 3 EMEA 150,000 APAC 100,000 AMER 50,000 2014 2015 2016 10. Recycling rates maintained Teleplan has a vital role in mitigating the environmental impacts of electronic devices through the provision of repair services. When a repair cannot be made, the recovery, reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials is integral to Teleplan’s customer proposition. Teleplan has well established programs to recover, reuse and recycle electronic waste at all its service centers. Other types of waste handled include cardboard and paper, metals and plastics, hazardous spare parts and substances such as batteries and florescent bulbs all of which are managed through recycling programs. 10 In 2016, Teleplan recycled 6,543 metric tons (2015: 7,423 metric tons*) or 88% (2015:89%) of its own and customer-owned materials, parts and equipment. *2015 figure has been restated Waste Streams Recycled 4.00 3.50 3.00 3.00 Tons (000's) 2.50 2.00 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.60 0.40 0.50 0.13 0.08 Targeting international e-waste management standards In 2016 the company has been working with WEEELABEX to achieve certification to the WEEELABEX standards in 2017 at one of its European service centers. The WEEELABEX standards address the collection, sorting, storage, transportation, preparation for re-use, treatment, processing and disposal of all kinds of WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment). In the Americas Teleplan has been working with Sustainable Electronics Recycling International (SERI) on the R2 electronics recycling standard and expects to achieve certification at three of its service centers in 2017. The R2 Standard provides a common set of processes, safety measures, and documentation requirements for businesses that repair and recycle used electronics. It is rigorously and independently audited, emphasizing quality, safety, and transparency. Teleplan’s Havant, UK service center has achieved approval as an authorized treatment facility (AATF) for the handling of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) allowing it to issue evidence notes for waste electrical and electronic equipment received at the facility and subsequently re-used, treated, recovered or recycled. Waste Assessments undertaken at larger service centers Waste assessments have been carried out at four service centers with the purpose of assessing the types and sources of waste; optimum method of handling, be that reuse or recycling; opportunities to reduce non-recyclable waste through working with customers to specify the use of recyclable materials and refurbishment and reuse of electronic waste. Opportunities for improvement of the waste management at these locations have been identified and programs initiated. 11 11. Charity fund raising and community engagement celebrated Teleplan employees are encouraged to get involved individually and together in fund-raising activities and volunteering initiatives in support of the good causes important to them and to the community in which they work. Community and charitable activities are celebrated company-wide through the bimonthly employee newsletter INTOUCH. In 2016 some of these were: Teleplan service centre in Zoetermeer, The Netherlands, participated in an educational event run by Zoetermeer City Council aimed at attracting high school students to think about a career in technology. The Teleplan team took the theme circular economy. Forty potential students spent time in the Circular Economy Customer Experience Centre which has been developed by Teleplan to demonstrate the company’s approach to circular economy from both a theoretical and practical standpoint. Circular economy resonated with the young people. Teleplan were in the top three most popular companies in the event. Steve Carter, VP Commercial EMEA, raised more than 1.000 € for the charity “MIND” by running the Brighton 10 Miler (16 km) together with his wife Kathy. Since a close family member of Kumar Garcia, Corporate Consolidation Manager, was diagnosed with cancer he started various sports activities to fundraise money for medical research and treatment for cancer patients. For this purpose Kumar participated in the “Like2swim” event in Rotterdam, The Netherlands in June 2016 and accomplished 1.000 meters of free style swimming. Erik Geel, Group Business Controller, ran a half marathon finishing in the famous Olympic Stadium of Amsterdam raising money for “The Forgotten Child Foundation . Havant service center are supporting Over The Wall (a charity providing Activity Camps for Children with Life Threatening illnesses) with staff members raising money by sponsorship (walking over the Sydney Harbour Bridge in February and a future Parachute Jump). The team at Teleplan Mexicali have an ongoing programme of supporting the Casa Hogar El Niño Feliz orphanage. Money is raised from waste recycling at the service centre which includes aluminium cans and plastic bottles brought by employees from home and is used to buy school supplies for 22 children aged between 2 and 12 years old. The programme delivers both a positive community and environmental impact. 12. CSR 2016 target achievements and introduction of midterm “2020” targets The objectives of the Teleplan CSR programme were developed in 2013 when the programme was first formalised. A number of these objectives have now been achieved and are fully integrated into business as usual. In 2016 Teleplan joined the Circular Economy 100 (CE100) Network. Longer term targets have been developed which reflect the company’s focus and drive to be full participants in the circular economy. 12 Objective Achievement 2016 Target 2017 Target 2020 Innovation of services and solutions to extend product life Teleplan to be a leader  Joined CE100.  Product passport  Product and driver in the  Established an operational for passport transformation to a internal CE task one major operational for circular economy, force. customer three customers providing value creating  Participated in  Circular Economy in selected services and solutions. relevant CE Customer product workshops. Experience categories  Piloted product Centers in all passport three regions  Published a CE  Agreed program White Paper of measurable  Established Circular customer targets Economy Customer Experience Centers in Europe  Engaged with key customers. Teleplan to demonstrate Establish a program to Establish a program its commitment to circular equip new Teleplan to equip all Teleplan economy through its own employees with employees with practices. refurbished mobile refurbished mobile devices. devices when a replacement is required. Ethical conduct of the business Ensure the highest ethical  Teleplan Code of Ongoing management standards in the conduct Conduct awareness to ensure compliance of our business and understanding with the Teleplan integral to the new Code of Conduct. employee induction process  Employee whistle blower and helpline maintained to promote compliance with the Teleplan Code of Conduct Exceed customer  Achieved EcoVadis  Maintain EcoVadis expectations in the Gold rating. rating ethical, social and  EICC and SMETA  Meet all customer environmental audits undertaken ethical, social and management of our and closed out at environmental business three service centers audit requirements Creation of an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper Ensure employees are Online learning platform Determine the optimal Achieve optimal engaged and motivated enhanced and delivering ratio of temporary vs. ratio of temporary to make optimal 75 courses across a permanent employees vs. permanent contribution to the wide range of topics employees prosperity and success of the business Health and safety of employees and facilities 13 Ensure a safe workplace Maintained OHSAS Two additional and minimise workplace 18001 certification at 7 OHSAS 18001 accidents service centers. certified service centers Consumption of energy Compliance with Maintained ISO 14001 Achieve ISO14001 at international certification at 9 service a further two service environmental centers centers management standards Manage use of energy in Energy consumption Adopt an energy Reduce overall major sites efficiently increased as a result of consumption ratio energy consumption increased levels of appropriate to the by a percentage business to facilitate informed by the activity at a number of analysis and energy reduction facilities. management of program energy consumption. Develop an energy reduction program in the highest consuming facilities Reduce CO2 emissions Participated in the CDP Evaluate opportunities Reduce CO2 Supply Chain program to source alternative emissions by a for the second year energy sources percentage informed by the opportunities available to source alternative forms of energy. Management of waste Compliance with Authorised Treatment Achieve R2 Extend R2 international waste Facility (AATF) approval Sustainable Sustainable management standards achieved at UK service Electronics Recycling Electronics center for the treatment standard at one site in Recycling standards of e-waste the Americas region to further sites Achieve certification to the WEEELABEX standard at one site in Europe. Optimise the recovery, 88% of Teleplan and Over 90% of Teleplan Zero waste to reuse and recycling of customer-owned and customer-owned landfill operational and customer materials, parts and materials, parts and waste equipment recycled equipment recycled. Waste assessments undertaken at four service centers Engagement with the community Facilitate employee Employee community Introduce matched Maintain matched charity fund raising and and charity fund raising funding to promote funding to promote volunteering activities celebrated in and encourage and encourage the employee newsletter employee charity fund employee charity raising fund raising 14 13. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Period covered by COP: January to December 2016 Statement of continued support from François Lacombe, CEO at Teleplan I am pleased to confirm that Teleplan reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders by publishing this communication on our website. The table below summarises our actions and provides a reference for further information. Francois Lacombe CEO Teleplan th 12 November 2017 INDEX OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SUPPORTED IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 Principle Action Further information/reference Human Rights Principle 1 The Teleplan Code of Conduct is Page 5 section 6 of this report published on the Teleplan website Businesses should support and and is integral to the new employee Teleplan Code of Conduct respect the protection of induction process. internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Teleplan works to the social, Pages 5, 6, 7 section 6 of this environmental and ethical report make sure that they are not standards of the EICC Code of complicit in human rights abuses. Conduct. This is the standard adopted by many of its customers. Teleplan expects its major suppliers to be aligned with and meet the EICC Code of Conduct. Labor Principle 3 The Teleplan Code of Conduct Pages 7,8,9 section 7 of this report sets the company labor Businesses should uphold the standards. It is translated into Teleplan Code of Conduct freedom of association and the the seven principal languages effective recognition of the right to used across Teleplan’s collective bargaining; operations. Awareness and understanding of the Code and Principle 4 its importance to the business are promoted through a 15 the elimination of all forms of forced program of employee training and compulsory labour; and communications and form an integral part of the induction Principle 5 of new employees. the effective abolition of child Teleplan has an established labour; and whistle blowing policy and procedure. Principle 6 Three members of the Quality the elimination of discrimination in Management team are trained respect of employment and and qualified as EICC Labor occupation and Ethics Lead Auditors and lead a program of assessment and audit to the EICC Code. Environment Principle 7 Teleplan plays a vital role in Pages 1, 2 section 2 of this report mitigating the environmental Businesses should support a impacts of electronic devices Teleplan website precautionary approach to through the provision of repair environmental challenges; services and the recovery, reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials. Teleplan enables its customers to manage faulty, damaged and waste products thereby prolonging the life of the product and reducing waste. Principle 8 Teleplan, is a member of the Pages 4,5 section 5 of this Circular Economy 100 (CE100) report undertake initiatives to promote network. CE100 is a global greater environmental platform bringing together Teleplan news release responsibility; and leading companies, emerging innovators and regions to Principle 9 accelerate the transition to a circular economy. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Teleplan has implemented a technologies. Global Circular Economy Taskforce which is working across the Teleplan operational regions on a number of circular economy projects including Product Passport. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 The Teleplan Code of Conduct Pages 5,6,7 section 6 of this prescribes the legal and ethical report Businesses should work against principles that all Teleplan’s corruption in all its forms, including employees, officers and Teleplan Code of Conduct extortion and bribery. directors must observe in conducting Teleplan’s business. Teleplan has set the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code as the standard it 16 works to and has appropriately trained people to lead the process of assessment and audit to the EICC Code. Teleplan participates in the social and environmental assessment survey operated by EcoVadis, the leading organization in this field. 17
