Graphic Design Table of Contents A.Strategic Review 1. 2016 Highlights 05 7. Intellectual Capital 33 2. Message from the Managing Director 06 1. Yearbook 33 3. About this Report 07 2. CR / Sustainability Reports 35 4. How we Create Value 09 3. Global Sustain Benchmarks 35 1. Group Proﬁle 09 4. Training 35 2. Vision, Mission, Values 11 5. Global Sustain Trademark 36 5. Stakeholder Mapping and Engagement 13 6. Collabora ons 37 6. Materiality Analysis 15 7. FSC License 38 8. Brunch 38 9. Public Awareness 38 B.Performance 8. Natural Capital 39 1. Corporate Governance 18 1. Environmental Policy 39 1. Occupa onal Health and Safety 18 2. Recycling 39 2. Code of Conduct 18 3. Greenhouse Gases Emissions 39 3. Environmental Policy 18 4. Energy and Water Consump on 40 4. United Na ons Global Compact Signatory 18 9. Targets 41 5. Opera onal Departments 18 2. Business Model 20 1. Services 20 C.Annexes 2. Client Service Sa sfac on 22 1. GRI G4 and AA1000APS Indexes 43 3. Risks, Opportuni es and Outlook 25 2. United Na ons Global Compact 45 1. SWOT Analysis 25 Communica on on Progress 2. Risk Assessment 25 3. Sustainable Development Goals 46 3. Outlook 26 4. Principles for Responsible Investment 47 4. Financial Capital 27 5. Third Party Assurance 48 1. Economic Results 27 2. Supply Chain 28 5. Social Capital 29 1. Social Contribu on 29 2. Suppor ng Chari es and Causes 30 3. Volunteering 31 6. Human Capital 31 1. Fair Employment 31 2. Health and Safety 31 3. Employee Development 31 4. Internal Communica on 32 A.Strategic Review 2016 04 Turnover increase 29% Customer sa sfac on 94% Members reten on 90% 2016 Highlights Average training hours per employee 40.57 Conferences and events 85 Social product increase 37% A.Strategic Review 2. Message from the Managing Director G4-1, G4-3, G4-13, G4-23 We con nue to face challenges in securing the appropriate resources for further and scalable growth; both in terms of ﬁnancial capital as well as human capital. The sustainability space is rapidly evolving into a very specialized and demanding sector of business that requires investments not only in capital terms but also in recrui ng and retaining human talent. As we grow with ﬁrm belief to our corporate values and a calculated risk approach to expansion, we foresee 2017 to be another year of growth in revenue and proﬁtability. This Dear Stakeholders, is supported by our strong founda ons of corporate It is with great pleasure to present our second integrated governance, sound internal policies and the latest regulatory report for the reference year 2016. developments in corporate sustainability repor ng mainly in Europe but also in other parts of the world. This report cons tutes our ﬁrst integrated report for the whole Global Sustain Group, including available data from Last but not least, we have been witnessing from our Global Sustain Limited (established in London, UK), Global interac on with top-level management, a sincere common Sustain GmbH (established in Berlin, Germany) and Global belief among C-suite execu ves, that sustainability is proving Sustain S.A. (established in Athens, Greece). Therefore, a diﬀeren a ng compe ve advantage, a growth factor, comparison to data from previous reports may be misleading, a risk mi ga on approach, as well as the best way to present nevertheless, we believe that this report presents a more a company's true value. informa ve and balanced overview of our business and strategy for growth. Global Sustain Group is well posi oned to serve companies and organisa ons towards this end. Compiling an integrated report following the guidance of the Interna onal Integrated Repor ng Council and the guidelines Sincerely, of GRI, United Na ons Global Compact, Principles for Responsible Investment and Sustainable Development Goals Michael Spanos cons tutes a real challenge for the size of our organiza on. Managing Director However, staying faithful to our values, we prac se what we Global Sustain Group preach. Amid interna onal turmoil and economic challenges, for one more year Global Sustain managed to record posi ve results in terms of revenue as well as proﬁtability, and at the same me crea ng shared value for our stakeholders. In 2016 the Global Sustain Group increased its employees and added signiﬁcant experience, know-how and exper se from interna onal projects and collabora ons working with global, mul na onal companies and organisa ons. Also, important to note is the con nuous high reten on rate of corporate members as well as their sa sfac on standing at 94%. 06 A.Strategic Review 3. About this Report G4-17, G4-18, G4-23, G4-28, G4-32, G4-33 This report is our second integrated annual report and expecta ons of its stakeholders. The report represents a further milestone in Global Sustain journey towards the management prac ces and the results of its ac ons repor ng the business and sustainability performance for the reference year January 1, 2016 December 31, 2016. in a uniﬁed and balanced way, as a response to the The GRI-G4 guidelines (In accordance “Core”) are employed to ensure that our results are reported objec vely and transparently. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact we provide a table mapping of the Ten Principles to this report, thus providing a Communica on on Progress (COP), pursuant to the requirements by the Global Compact. For the second me we make reference to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at a Target level, thus con nuing our eﬀort to measure our impact to the 2030 Agenda. As a PRI signatory we report an outline of our ac ons and ini a ves towards the applica on of Principle 6 of the PRI. The Report adheres to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008, following the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. For the repor ng year 2016 we have conducted an updated materiality analysis, thus including in the Report new material issues and stakeholders. The report covers our ac vi es The ﬁnancial ﬁgures of this report and performance as a Group and our relevant to Global Sustain S.A. have been opera ons in UK (Global Sustain Ltd.), assured by RSM Greece S.A. Financial Germany (Global Sustain GmbH) and data for our opera ons in UK have been Greece (Global Sustain S.A.). The part prepared by our chartered accountants of the report relevant to sustainability Oury Clark, and for Germany by GPC Tax, content has been assured by TÜV HELLAS according to na onal accoun ng (TÜV NORD). The detailed Independent standards. Assurance Statement is included in pages 48-49. Give us your Feedback G4-31 Any comments and recommenda ons about this report may be submi ed by e-mail to info@globalsustain.org. The Integrated Report 2016 is available at: h p://globalsustain.org. 07 G4-5, G4-6 Global Sustain Group 1 2 47 5 3 6 1 Global Sustain Limited (HQ) 10 John Street, London, WC1N 2EB United Kingdom USA Strategic Alliance 5 AHC Group, 156 Stone Church Road, Ballston Spa, New York 12020 United States of America 2 Global Sustain GmbH Friedrichstraße 191, Berlin 10117 Germany Cyprus Strategic Alliance Global Sustain S.A. 6 Cyprus Interna onal Ins tute of Management, 21 Akademias Avenue, Nicosia 3 35, An opis Street GR-173 43 Agios Dimitrios, Athens Cyprus Greece Switzerland Strategic Alliance Brussels Representa on Oﬃce 7 Resilience Guard GmbH, Kreuzplatz 2, Zurich, CH-8032 4 Renewable Energy House, Rue d' Arlon 63, B-1040 Brussels Switzerland Belgium A.Strategic Review 4. How we Create Value G4-9, G4-EC1 Global Sustain is a steady growing and responsible business, that creates value for all stakeholders, by carefully managing the use of and return on all capitals. Revenue Suppliers EUR 404,876.28 € We support businesses throughout our value chain. Employment Employees 7 fullme plus 2 internships We develop and reward our people securing this way a dedicated workforce. Taxes / Social Security Contribu on Members / Clients EUR 105,092.06 We oﬀer innova ve services, growing this way our members / clients' business. Spent on charity Communi es EUR 1,103 We operate responsibly, we comply with our tax obliga ons and based on our proﬁts Volunteering hours we support communi es. 135 1. Group Proﬁle G4-7, G4-8, G4-13, G4-34 with a global audience. Global Sustain oﬀers innova ve on-line and oﬀ-line services to 639 members and clients from Global Sustain Group is a privately-held group, headquartethe corporate, ﬁnancial, public, and academic sectors, red in London, UK, that inspires and supports companies and facilita ng synergies among members and other key organisa ons to integrate sustainability in their opera on stakeholders. The Group publishes a mul -stakeholder thorough advisory, communica ons, networking and training, Yearbook, a comprehensive fortnightly e-newsle er, facilitates focusing on the people-planet-proﬁt philosophy. It oﬀers networking events among members (M2M), organises innova ve, on-line and oﬀ-line services related to sustainability forums, tailor made trainings, corporate and Sustainability and CR, Responsible Inves ng (ESG) Advisory focused stakeholders events. and Training for companies, strategic consul ng in green In 2016, the Group employed seven full me staﬀ, plus two economy sectors, business ethics and excellence, internships and its turnover amounted to EUR 404,876.28. transparency, human rights and accountability. Global Sustain In Greece, Global Sustain has a major market share and Ltd (UK), together with Global Sustain GmbH (Germany) and presence in the sustainability sector. It has shown great Global Sustain SA. (Greece), a representa ve oﬃce in Brussels resilience to the business environment with metrics like and aﬃliates in Zurich, New York and Cyprus form the Global Sustain Group. turnover, staﬀ increase and EBIT growing in me. Based on successful opera ons and a very strong customer basis, The Group owns and operates the climate-neutral popular Global Sustain has transformed into an independent website, www.globalsustain.org. A content-rich website that interna onal player with the crea on of two new en es, eﬀec vely communicates CR and sustainability news, reports, Global Sustain GmbH (Germany) and Global Sustain Ltd. events and informa on on behalf of members and clients, (UK), in 2015. 09 Global Sustain Group today comprises of three legal en es, Managing Director of Global Sustain GmbH and Head of namely Global Sustain Ltd (UK), Global Sustain GmbH Interna onal Aﬀairs of the Group. Global Sustain Ltd holds (Germany) and Global Sustain S.A. (Greece). The ul mate also 99% of the shares of Global Sustain S.A. with the controlling party of the Group is Mr. Michael Spanos, remaining 1% of the shares belonging to Mr. Michael Spanos. the founder and Managing director of the Group and sole The Group's growth is a ributed to the fact that it generates shareholder of Global Sustain Ltd, which acts as the holding true value for all stakeholders throughout its business company of the Group. Global Sustain Ltd holds 95% of opera ons. the shares of Global Sustain GmbH with the remaining 5% of the shares belonging to Mr. Ioannis Salavopoulos, GLOBAL SUSTAIN LTD (UK) ..................ADVISORY BOARD GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS ACCOUNTING & LEGAL GLOBAL SUSTAIN GMBH (GERMANY) GLOBAL SUSTAIN S.A. (GREECE) BRUSSELS OFFICE (BELGIUM) USA REP. (AHC GROUP) CYPRUS REP. (CIIM) SWITZERLAND REP. (RESILIENCE GUARD GMBH) 10 2. Vision, Mission, Values G4-56 Our vision is to “Lead Sustainable Change for a Be er support companies and organisa ons in sustainability, Future”. A sustainable world where organisa ons embrace through advisory, communica ons, networking and training, responsibility and respect for human and natural capital guided by the peopleplanet-proﬁt concept. This triple in their quest for growth. bo om line approach deﬁnes the way we do business and Our mission is to create awareness, inspire and our rela ons with our stakeholders. refers to beneﬁcial business prac ces towards labour, the community “People” and the region in which we conduct our business. refers to sustainable environmental prac ces that we adopt and advocate “Planet” to our stakeholders. refers to the economic value created by the Group. This also refers to our “Proﬁt” corporate earnings and capital savings for growth, as well as the real economic beneﬁt enjoyed by the society and the real economic impact our Group has on its economic environment. Global Sustain operates and conducts business according to the following six values: Innova on Collabora on Ethics and Integrity Exchange of Knowledge and Experience Clear Purpose Team spirit VISION MISSION How we Create Value VALUES PRODUCTS & SERVICES 11 At Global Sustain, we: View our employees as our pro-ac ve ambassadors who are passionate about our mission and we encourage them to be change makers and go-ge ers. Strongly believe in encouraging synergies and facilita ng strategic partnerships among our members and our key stakeholders; Believe that making the world a be er place starts –ﬁrst and foremost– from ourselves, our ambassadors, our stakeholders and our members and that all should be always pro-ac ve as corporate and individual ci zens; Strongly believe that corporate responsibility, responsible inves ng, green economy and sustainability should be the central focus of all companies and investors, regardless of size, industry sector or loca on in which they operate; Par cipate in our members’ voluntary ac vi es, projects and events; Are commi ed to opera ng as a 100% climate neutral and zero-waste Group. This commitment encompasses all our ac vi es and opera ons (e.g. oﬃce, logis cs, staﬀ movements) as well as products / services (e.g. websites, exhibi ons, events, yearbooks); Donate a percentage of our earnings to help fund innova ve, not-for-proﬁt projects that make an impact; Strongly adhere to ethical decision-making, organisa onal transparency, and accountability, both internally (to one another, to our ambassadors) and to our external stakeholders, including our members. 12 A.Strategic Review 5. Stakeholder Mapping and Engagement G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Global Sustain conducts stakeholder engagement ac vi es Our stakeholders are divided in two categories, primary and on an annual basis, either using structured and targeted secondary stakeholders. Primary stakeholders have direct ques onnaires or by organising focus groups with select impact on the organisa on's ac vi es, while secondary stakeholder groups. The latest targeted stakeholder stakeholders are involved indirectly in the organisa on's ques onnaire was conducted in 2017, right before the ac vi es, although they are always informed. Presently, publica on of this report, reques ng stakeholder feedback the Group chooses to engage mainly with stakeholders that for the year 2016. have an impact on its opera ons. Primary Stakeholders Relation Communication Expectations Employees They oﬀer services Immediate communication Recognition through evaluation Regular with administration (daily) Health and safety in workplace Contractors They get fair remuneration Regular meetings (weekly) Training and personal Associates development opportunities Interns Information regarding business planning Members They choose Global Sustain Websites Innovative services Companies for eﬀective communication and promotion of Fortnightly newsletter Reliability NGOs sustainability activities Regular meetings with Flexibility and actions administration (monthly) Value for money Networking opportunities Interviews and articles Readiness They have access Participation in Global Networking to information and help desk Sustain or other events (monthly) Training Training opportunities Responsiveness Suppliers They oﬀer services Websites Reliability and products Members Fortnightly newsletter Integrity They support Global Sustain Partners actions and events Regular meetings with administration (monthly) Participation in Global Sustain or other events (monthly) 13 Secondary Stakeholders Relation Communication Expectations Community Global Sustain is a for proﬁt Websites Innovative services NGOs entity with social impact Fortnightly newsletter Exposure of charity work Unions Collaborates with Information regarding Responsible citizens Participation in NGOs actions over 300 NGOs social and environmental Consumers Social Media users NGOs participation in Global problems Finances charitable projects Academia Sustain events (monthly) carried out by its NGO Support members Annual NGO funding Networking with companies Networks Global Sustain is a UN Websites Credibility National and Global Compact signatory, Fortnightly newsletter Exposure international founding member of the networks Global Compact Network Support and participation Network expansion Chambers Hellas and member of UN in Global Sustain events Valuable alliances Global Compact Network (annual) Belgium Global Sustain participation Global Sustain is a Data in local and global events Partner of GRI and Gold (monthly) Community member Collaborates with other leading organisations Market Tracking customers' and Websites Reliability Companies potential members' needs Fortnightly newsletter Innovative services non-members NGOs non-members Oﬀering appealing services Meetings (monthly) Flexibility Consumers Participation in Global Social Media users Dissemination of knowledge Sustain events Global Sustain participation in events Media They support Global Sustain Websites Continuous information Newspapers actions and events To the point interviews and (especially business Fortnightly newsletter They communicate its work articles and environmental) Meetings TV networks Credibility Sites Participation in Global Magazines of Sustain events special interest Press releases (weekly) Radio Media inquiry Press kit Articles and interviews Authorities They set the regulatory Meetings with public Reliability Legislators framework agencies (monthly) Integrity Regulators They receive taxes and Participation in events Government Compliance social products that derive of special interest agencies from Global Sustain Lobbying through market operation associations Competitors They interact with Global Participation in global Valuable alliances Sustain and local events, workshops Integrity They exchange best Websites practices and training Fair competition opportunities 14 A.Strategic Review 6. Materiality Analysis G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-26, G4-27 Global Sustain systema cally conducts surveys focused on analysis based on a survey-ques onnaire in which par cipants our stakeholders' opinions and expecta ons. The iden ﬁca on were asked to assess the materiality of an extensive range and selec on of stakeholders is achieved through internal of corporate responsibility issues with regard to the mee ngs and thorough evalua on and discussion. marketplace, the human resources policy, the society and For a second year Global Sustain conducted a materiality the environmental policy. The evalua on and priori sa on of the material aspects led us focus on the following seven issues, as presented in the right – top corner of the chart below: 1 Economic performance (Revenue and Proﬁtability). 3 Business ethics, integrity and privacy. 6 Customer sa sfac on (e.g. Service quality, credibility and reliability). 18 Employee training, educa on, team development and emerging talents. 5 Transparency and an corrup on. 17 Health and safety in the workplace. 13 Innova on in products, services and processes. Materiality Matrix 4 5 3 2 17 6 1 Inﬂuence on stakeholder assessments and decisions 21 18 20 13 7 19 16 12 15 8 11 14 9 22 23 10 24 Signiﬁcance of Global Sustain economic, environmental and social impacts 15 For each material aspect, we iden ﬁed the aspect boundary within and outside the organisa on. BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS OF MATERIAL ISSUES Material Issues Boundaries Limita ons Within the Outside the Within the Outside the Organisa on Organisa on Organisa on Organisa on Customers, Economic performance Oﬃce Suppliers, (Revenue and Proﬁtability) Authori es, Employees Business ethics, Oﬃce Customers, integrity and privacy Suppliers, Employees Customer sa sfac on Oﬃce Customers (e.g. Service quality, credibility and reliability) Employee training, educa on, Oﬃce Employees, team development and emerging talents Customers Transparency Oﬃce Customers, and an corrup on Suppliers, Authori es, Media Health and safety in Oﬃce Employees the workplace Innova on in products, Oﬃce Customers, services and processes. Suppliers 16 B.Performance 2016 17 Β.Performance 1. Corporate Governance G4-34, G4-56 Global Sustain has adopted corporate governance prac ces Gi s, entertainment and favors to promote and safeguard the eﬀec ve func oning and Kickbacks and secret commissions opera on of the Group. These prac ces are not intended to Funds and use of other corporate assets change or interpret any law or regula on and are subject to Records and communica ons changes or / and adapta on by the top management. Dealing with outside people and organiza ons Each en ty within the Global Sustain Group is guided by a Prompt communica ons Board of Directors that represents the top-level decisionPrivacy and conﬁden ality making body in the region that the en ty operates. Also, an Advisory Board has been formed to provide strategic 3. Environmental Policy guidance to the Group, dealing with challenges and issues G4-14 related to corporate governance, corporate responsibility, ethics, sustainability and business growth. Global Sustain is commi ed to opera ng as a 100% carbon Execu ve authority is assigned by each Board to the Managing neutral Group through a comprehensive environmental policy. Director of the Group as well the Managing Directors in other We measure, manage and oﬀset all carbon emissions on an en es. Managing Directors have as a primary responsibility annual basis. Furthermore, Global Sustain has in place a the ﬁnancial, social and environmental performance of the thorough recycling policy followed by all staﬀ, associates and en es and the Group and are also responsible for monitoring the respec ve suppliers. the Group's code of conduct, are the legal representa ves of Global Sustain en es and act as spokespersons on behalf of 4. United Na ons Global Compact Signatory G4-15, G4-16 the en es and the Group. Global Sustain is a signatory to the ten principles and has 1. Occupa onal Health and Safety adopted the transparency and accountability policy known Occupa onal health and safety are important from all aspects as the Communica on on Progress (COP), as a demonstra on and the leadership of the Group being legally responsible has of its commitment to the UN Global Compact. COP for this the duty to ensure that employees and any other person who report can be found at the Annex and at may be aﬀected by the Group's undertakings remain safe at www.unglobalcompact.org. Global Sustain S.A. is also all mes. Global Sustain has in place an occupa onal health a member of the UN Global Compact Network in Greece and safety policy which is eﬃciently communicated to all and its Managing Director is a Member of the Secretariat. staﬀ and associates. 5. Opera onal Departments 2. Code of Conduct Global Sustain opera onal structure is comprised of the The Group is commi ed to support and encourage a safe, following departments: suppor ve and produc ve work environment, that can only General Management happen when everyone cooperates and operates according to generally accepted standards of professional conduct. Interna onal Aﬀairs The standards outlined in the Code of Conduct, support Business Development Global Sustain values of excellent service, integrity, Advisory and Project Management accountability, equality, collabora on and learning, that are Membership Services expected of all staﬀ, associates and partners. Global Sustain Events and Outreach Code of Conduct covers issues such as: Marke ng & Communica ons Conﬂicts of interest Administra ve and Finance Employment and directorships Legal (outsourced) Rela onships with clients and suppliers IT (outsourced) 18 Global Sustain Group – Advisory Board Michael Spanos Chairman of the Board, Managing Director of Global Sustain. Aris Vre os Programme Director, University of Cambridge Ins tute for Sustainability Leadership (Cambridge, UK). Dr. Bruce Piasecki President and Founder of the AHC Group, Inc (New York, USA). Georgia Kartsanis Founder & CEO of SARGIA Partners, Founder of the Greek and Romanian Chapters of CEO Clubs Interna onal. Dr. Sharon Jackson Founder & CEO of the European Sustainability Academy, Crete, Associate Faculty at Cranﬁeld School of Management. Angelos Konstantopoulos Co-founder & Managing Director of Think Plus, Entrepreneur. 19 Β.Performance 2. Business Model In this report, we present ﬁnancial data to inform our On-line Services stakeholders about the 2016 ﬁscal year (2016 is the ﬁrst year In order to ensure eﬀec ve communica on for its members, as a Group and informa on in the previous Report (2015) Global Sustain owns and daily updates the bilingual website refers only to opera ons in Greece). The 2016 ﬁnancial data www.globalsustain.org, hos ng ar cles, press releases, news, depicts Global Sustain ac vi es in rela on to its services sustainability reports, interviews and research. Members oﬀered in Greece (Global Sustain S.A. in Athens), Germany have their own dedicated microsite and can u lise marke ng (Global Sustain GmbH, in Berlin) and the UK (Global Sustain and communica on tools such as videos, podcasts, banners, Ltd in London) and does not include informa on from the mail shots and social media to raise awareness of their representa on oﬃces (Brussels, Nicosia, New York and Zurich). sustainability strategy, policies, reports and programs. This Global Sustain S.A. in Greece is one of the leading ﬁrms in the informa on is also distributed through a partnership network Greek market with a signiﬁcant market share. Despite global comprised of mul ple leading organisa ons within the as well as local economic, poli cal and social challenges, sustainability and corporate responsibility sector (such as Global Sustain Group has managed to further improve its CSRwire and Business Wire). ﬁnancial posi on in 2016. Revenue exceeded the EUR 400,000 target, with no external ﬁnancial capital. Electronic Newsle er 1. Services Commi ed to mely inform stakeholders on sustainability G4-4, G4-9 issues, Global Sustain publishes an electronic bilingual newsle er highligh ng the latest news, trends, research and Global Sustain oﬀers a wide range of services to its members events on sustainability. The newsle er (sent to more than and clients from the corporate, ﬁnancial, public, academic 15.000 “opt-in” subscribers) includes the latest developments, and ci zen sectors. These services are either direct B2B such press releases, interviews, viewpoints, announcements, as advisory, consul ng, training, networking, etc., or indirect presenta ons, videos, podcasts, and other informa on of such as online and oﬄine ones as presented below. Global Sustain members. Newsle er outreach includes CEOs and senior managers, business leaders, consumers, local and Sustainability Advisory & Consul ng Services public authori es, academic ins tu ons, journalists, opinion Global Sustain supports companies and organisa ons in formers, decision makers and non-governmental organisa ons. formula ng their sustainability strategy, designing In 2016 Global Sustain published 46 newsle ers. sustainability policies and programs, preparing reports and conducts research about their local and interna onal best New Media Services prac ces. It also supports companies in services related to Global Sustain oﬀers cu ng-edge digital services aiming at responsible investments and in their par cipa on in eﬀec vely communicate its members' sustainability eﬀorts sustainability indexes, establishes metrics for social value and provide opportuni es for networking. Via its social media es ma on of strategy and corporate responsibility and presence (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twi er, YouTube, Instagram), sustainability ini a ves and facilitates networking with Global Sustain facilitates a constant and construc ve dialogue pioneering organisa ons and ins tu ons. Services include: among its stakeholders, through daily news uploads, innova ve Sustainability strategy applica ons, and at the same me undertakes projects for developing and managing social media pages. Sustainability report Responsible investments Members-to-Members Services Benchmarking Global Sustain oﬀers extensive networking among its members Project management through its Members-to-Members (M2M) Service and M2M Mee ngs. The M2M Service allows corporate members to Metrics communicate new, innova ve and sustainable services and Stakeholder engagement products, collabora ve synergies or mutually beneﬁcial projects to a targeted audience through the website. Training (in-house, E-learning, open seminars) 20 We disseminate informa on and ini ate networking using Germany, on September 20 at the Inves onsbank Berlin a combina on of our website and direct email alerts to Conference Center. selected members and stakeholders in our sustainability database. In 2016, we ini ated more than 100 Global Sustain NGO Annual Funding networking opportuni es between our members, through direct references. In M2M Mee ngs, members present their At the end of each ﬁscal year, as part of our corporate products, services, strategy and best prac ces related to responsibility policy, Global Sustain ﬁnances non-proﬁt sustainability to other Global Sustain members. These projects carried out by non-corporate members, with the mee ngs create excellent networking opportuni es, aim of funding speciﬁc social, environmental or other needs encourage and inspire members and exchange best prac ces. in the ci zen sector. To date, 22 charitable projects have been In 2016, the Group organized four M2M mee ngs (February, ﬁnanced since 2006, through an electronic vo ng procedure March, September, December). and the opinion of an NGO Project Funding Commi ee. This policy is part of the Group's values and aims at Conferences-Exhibi ons-Events promo ng and suppor ng the work of its NGO members with Global Sustain organises, co-organises, pro-ac vely supports social and environmental impact. and par cipates in, local and interna onal conferences, Yearbook Annual Publica on Series exhibi ons and events, in order to eﬀec vely communicate its members' sustainability policies and programs and deliver Yearbook series aim at highligh ng cri cal global sustainability market intelligence and know-how to its members on a issues and cons tute a catalyst for construc ve dialogue and number of important issues related to sustainability. In 2016, posi ve change. This annual interna onal publica on is Global Sustain was involved in 85 events globally an increase trusted by top companies and important stakeholders from by 7.6% compared to 2015 (79 events). all around the world. Each year, Global Sustain chooses a topic of universal interest relevant to the people-planet-proﬁt Services for Global Sustain members through these events concept and analyses all the aspects, through the views of include: interna onally renowned personali es, business leaders, poli cians, visionaries and academia. Industry opinion Targeted networking with execu ves, companies, formers and decision makers across the world contribute organisa ons and other en es. with policy and business intelligence to the publica on, Prepara on and dissemina on of feedback reports while leading corpora ons – with a ﬁnancial contribu on on interna onal events. and in exchange of yearbook hard copies – showcase their best prac ces and ﬂagship products and services in the Complimentary invita ons and discounts for members. sustainability ﬁeld. The hard copy publica on is presented every year in special events and venues, with high level Distribu on of members’ corporate material. par cipants and is distributed to more than 40 countries. Extensive and regular update on events. In 2016, Global Sustain published the 9th Yearbook, “Sustainable Consump on and Produc on: Towards a Circular Economy”. More informa on is available at: Sustainability Forum h p://globalsustainyearbook.org. Every year, Global Sustain organises the Sustainability Forum-A training, networking and professional development event. The Forum provides hands-on experience and prac cal knowledge through specialised workshops and brings together prominent speakers and top sustainability experts from all around the world (www.sustainabilityforum.eu). In 2016, Sustainability Forum took place on October 7, at the OTE Academy premises, in Athens, Greece and the Responsible Investments Forum took place in Berlin, 21 2. Client Service Sa sfac on and asset u lisa on for greater customer and member G4-PR5 sa sfac on. Once per year, we issue a detailed membership evalua on report for every Corporate and NGO / Society Global Sustain strongly believes that its members are the Premium member summarizing our ac ons and services best ambassadors of its work and mission and for this reason, addressed to them during the year, thus helping us to monitor we are commi ed to keep them sa sﬁed and always provide our professional eﬃciency. Moreover, we pursue regular in high quality innova ve services. A customer rela onship vivo mee ngs with our members in a more customised way management (CRM) so ware is in place that helps Global in order to build strong rela onships of mutual respect. Sustain manage business processes, interac on with current In 2016 we had 19 new members, while our oldest members and poten al customers and improve its corporate resource count 11 years of membership. Years of Membership 35 33 30 28 28 25 Members 20 21 19 15 21 10 9 5 6 5 6 3 4 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Years In 2017 (for year end 2016) Global Sustain conducted for a second year in a row a survey-ques onnaire in order to assess members' sa sfac on, as well as the following issues: Level of informa on about Global Sustain ac vi es and services Ability of Global Sustain to meet stakeholders’ expecta ons / needs Level of sa sfac on in communica ng with Global Sustain The main beneﬁts from partnership with Global Sustain Level of sa sfac on from Global Sustain services Evalua on of Global Sustain partnerships with interna onal organiza ons / networks Importance of Sustainability / Corporate Responsibility Global Sustain Sustainability Report readership Improvement sugges ons 22 Some of the survey ﬁndings are the following: 94% consider that Global Sustain enjoys a good level of credibility and eﬀec veness. Credibility & Eﬀec veness Slightly satisﬁed 5 Satisﬁed 26 Very satisﬁed 39 Extremely satisﬁed 29 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40% 45% 88% of Global Sustain members are very well informed about Global Sustain services and products. Informa on about Global Sustain Services & Products Not at all informed 0 A little informed 11 Quite informed 40 Very informed 32 Extremely informed 16 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40% 45% 23 90% of Global Sustain members consider that the company meets their expecta ons. How Global Sustain meets expecta ons 40 35 37 30 25 29 % 20 24 15 10 5 5 4 0 Extremely well Very well Well Medium Poorly 90% of respondents never face problems when dealing with Global Sustain. Diﬃcul es during collabora on with Global Sustain 1% 9% Some mes Never Always 90% Tes monials about Global Sustain services, products and customer sa sfac on are available at h p://globalsustain.org/en/aboutus/tes monials 24 Β.Performance 3. Risks, Opportuni es and Outlook The further expansion of the Group opera ons to other Weaknesses: Weaknesses relate mostly to limited access markets is of paramount importance (namely United States, to capital, since services sector is not always appealing for Germany and Cyprus) in order to achieve ﬁnancial targets funding and credit lines are restrained. The incorpora on of and sustain growth. This is mainly because to the two aﬃliates in Germany and UK is expected to mi gate the con nuous economic recession in one country of this risk in the coming years. Human resources are another opera on (Greece), as well as developments that their cri cal issue. Although the Group needs experienced implica ons have not yet been assessed (Brexit, UK). Having professionals, its ability to mo vate exis ng personnel, in mind global and local challenges, Global Sustain every year a ract and retain talent is challenging due to payroll conducts an assessment of risks and opportuni es, as an limita ons and ﬁerce compe on. This comes as an indirect integral part of business planning and con nuity. result of relaxed credit policy to clients' due to prolonged economic constrains and low budget availability for awarded 1. SWOT Analysis projects by the clients who are unwilling to pay the real worth of high-level advisory services. Especially, expansion in Global Sustain carried out a SWOT analysis in order to iden fy other countries calls for strong interna onal leadership, and the internal and external factors that are favorable and experienced interna onal business development managers. unfavorable to its business growth. Threats: Among threats that might have an eﬀect on the Strengths: The Group's members' base mainly consists of Group are: compe on in interna onal level, since the large and mul na onal companies, with 90% reten on rate Group has only recently established its interna onal presence, (loyalty) and highly rated members' sa sfac on, reﬂected in the lack of suﬃcient funding and liquidity issues for the the annual stakeholders' survey. Global Sustain is commi ed support of the Group's expansion, the lack of sustainability to its interna onal expansion strategy, that has started in culture in the markets, since poten al clients do not have 2015 and has managed to establish its interna onal network commi ed leadership and execu ves fully understanding the to 7 countries (Greece, Germany, Belgium, UK, Cyprus, beneﬁts of sustainability, the need to con nuously innovate Switzerland and USA). The Group over the years has gained with regard to services and oﬀers to members and clients signiﬁcant experience and know how, oﬀering to its clients and last the non-reten on of the Groups' execu ves due to 360o sustainability services, outlined above. In its 11th year, noncompe ve remunera on. the company is ﬁnancially sound, with con nuous growth in revenue, zero debt and obliga ons and robust management 2. Risk Assessment procedures in place. Τhe Group operates with zero external debt and business Opportuni es: The Group con nues to expand its business growth is achieved only once the needed ﬁnancing is in place. within the framework of regulatory developments, such as the EU Direc ve on non-ﬁnancial disclosure. According to The Group is exposed to credit risk due to its sales to this European Direc ve, non-ﬁnancial repor ng becomes customers that enjoy a relaxed credit policy due to the mandatory under certain condi ons mainly for listed current economic situa on. The receivables amount from companies, thus increasing demand for Global Sustain customers represents 20% of total turnover. services and products. Global Sustain has the opportunity The average me of collec ng receivables is three months. to infuse sustainability into corporate culture based on the The Group may be exposed to credit risk and has no provision regulatory developments. The scalability of Global Sustain to cover it, as recorded in the balanced sheet. business model is characterised by high percentage of Func oning in a compe ve environment and obliged to recurring sales and sa sfactory proﬁtability ra o, coming follow the credit policy men oned above, the Group is mainly from memberships. Cross selling methods are o en exposed to liquidity risk. Almost 36% of total assets is from implemented, contribu ng to more revenue streams. For debtors, 15% of total assets is ﬁxed assets, while 19% is cash example, the provision of advisory, training, and project to total assets. management services to exis ng clients (members) and to new non-member clients too. 25 Market risk is slightly aﬀec ng Global Sustain Group, 3. Outlook mostly for foreign exchange rates (mainly for UK due to The outlook for Global Sustain Group in 2017 is posi ve, Brexit nego a ons). The Group is not exposed to interest despite the challenging economic and geopoli cal landscape. rate risk because there is no debt, however, the Group is Sustainability is gaining momentum in Europe, leading to exposed to some extend to currency risk because certain market growth, as a result of the new European regulatory transac ons from overseas clients (mainly in USA) are in US framework and increased corporate awareness. Global dollars. Currency risk, however, does not represent Sustain, through the setup of the two new companies in UK a signiﬁcant risk at this point as revenues in US dollars are and Germany, has gradually started to penetrate these new limited. markets and is pu ng in place appropriate structures and The non-renewal of some memberships, the late payments plans for further market expansion. in undertaking new projects and studies, result in risks in which the Group may need to take a more proac ve On the services side, in the repor ng year, the Group made approach in the future. signiﬁcant investments for the development of the advisory department, based on its members' demand. In 2017 and beyond, advisory will be further expanded and cons tute a signiﬁcant source of revenue, that is projected to exceed 50% of the total turnover. According to our stakeholders' survey, the budget for sustainability will stay at the same levels or even increase, something that allows for op mism. 26 Β.Performance 4. Financial Capital We develop our business and at the same me oﬀer beneﬁts Sustain managed to surpass diﬃcul es posed by the overall to our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and economic state, evolved its business ac vi es, increased the communi es in which we operate. In 2016, Global investments and retained its leading posi on in the market. 1. Economic Results G4-9, G4-17, G4-EC1 The turnover was increased by 29%, compared to 2015, reaching EUR 404,876.28. The projec on for turnover was 30%, according to target set at the previous Integrated Report 2015 Global Sustain Group – 2016 Financial Year Figures (all numbers in EUR) Called up Revenue Net Proﬁt/Loss Company Country Total Assets Share Capital (Sales) (a er taxes) Global Sustain S.A. Greece 24,000.00 329,461.36 126,301.03 16,410.33 Global Sustain GmbH Germany 25,000.00 30,276.85 23,072.23 -7,781.30 Global Sustain Ltd UK 62,500.00 45,138.07 79,118.75 21,090.00 Total 111,500.00 404,876.28 228,492.01 29,719.03 The Group s ll has zero debt, with no loans and operates on its own capital reserves. In 2016, the Group invested EUR 22.111,70 to purchase equipment, renovate and furnish new oﬃces. In the repor ng year, new investments were increased by 39.88% compared to 2015 ﬁgures. As far as the Group's economic value is concerned, it reached EUR 56,396.79, slightly reduced since 2015 (-14%). This decrease is due to higher opera ng costs including expenses for new personnel and social security contribu ons which were almost doubled in the repor ng year. (all numbers in EUR) Global Sustain Group Turnover 404,876.28 Opera ng Costs 110,255.81 Income Taxes Paid 12,395.39 Value Added Tax 44,045.64 Du es, fees and commissions 12,487.17 Social Security Contribu on 36,163.86 Salaries, Compensa on and beneﬁts 132,028.62 Direct Economic Contribu on to NGOS 1,103.00 Debt 0.00 Economic Value added (EC1 – GRI) 56,396.79 27 Global Sustain membership remains the primary source of the Group's income, reaching EUR 182,669.71, while advisory and project management gains grounds, reaching EUR 118,533.00. Training and other services (publica ons, sponsorships, etc.) follow with EUR 28,678.05 and EUR 74,995.51 respec vely. 2016 Group Revenue Streams by Country (all numbers in EUR) Business Lines SA LTD GMBH GROUP % of Revenue Membership Services 170,502.62 5,167.09 7,000.00 182,669.71 45,12% Training 26,735.00 1,013.05 930.00 28,678.05 7,08% Advisory and Project Management 88,108.00 17,125.00 13,300.00 118,533.00 29,28% Other (Publica ons, Sponsorships) 44,115.74 21,832.92 9,046.85 74,995.51 18,52% Total 329,461.36 45,138.07 30,276.85 404,876.28 100,00% Business Segment Volume Breakdown 19% Membership Services 45% 29% Advisory and Project Management Other (Publica ons, Sponsorship, etc.) Training 7% 2. Supply Chain G4-12 and promote Global Sustain services, products, events and seminars. The total amount spent on our suppliers reached Global Sustain has developed and put in place a Suppliers EUR 216,191.14 (worldwide). To support our network and Code of Conduct. Our suppliers are required to comply with our stakeholders, we ﬁrst turn to our members to ini ate a all applicable laws and regula ons, conform to the highest supplier – customer partnership. standards of ethical conduct respec ng and suppor ng human rights, operate in an environmentally responsible and eﬀec ve manner and abide by all health and safety rules. Thus, we carry out evalua on of our poten al suppliers not only on the basis of their economic viability but also of their social and environmental reliability. Furthermore, we encourage our members, suppliers and peers to par cipate in the respec ve training seminars and events that we organise or support and share knowledge. In 2016, we used 126 diﬀerent suppliers, mostly Greek suppliers to develop 28 Β.Performance 5. Social Capital G4-EC1 Social Capital reﬂects our social proﬁle, ac vi es and product communica on and enable others to be familiar with our and is associated with the way in which we operate in the local obliga ons in all markets where we operate. In 2016, Global communi es where the Group is located, represen ng the Sustain paid EUR 12,395.39 for income taxes, EUR 44.045,64 rela onships that we have built with our key stakeholders. for Value Added Tax and EUR 12,487.17 for du es, fees and commissions. Social security contribu ons amounted to 1. Social Contribu on EUR 36,163.86. The Group also paid EUR 132,028.62 G4-SO5, G4-PR8 in salaries, compensa on and other beneﬁts, for the same Global Sustain is commi ed to ac ng with integrity and ﬁscal year, increasing the amount compared to previous transparency in all tax ma ers as part of its corporate repor ng year. In view of the above, in 2016 our Social accountability. We aim to provide transparent and accessible Product was increased by 37%, reaching EUR 277,769,90 €. Social Product 202,527.35 € 250,000.00 277,769.90 € 200,000.00 150,000.00 132,028.62 € 105,092.06 € 73,517.49 € 98,417.34 € 100,000.00 35,296.22 € 4,000.00 € 17,327.47 € 11,513.05 € 50,000.00 1,353.00 € 1,752.00 € -€ Saleries/Beneﬁs Fixed Assets & Taxes/Social Environmental Social Social Investments Security Expenditures Expenditures Product Contribu on 2016 2015 Moreover, in 2016, Global Sustain had zero number of signiﬁcant incidents of non – compliance with any law, regula on or voluntary code. Sale of banned or disputed products 0 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regula ons and voluntary codes concerning marke ng communica ons, including adver sing, promo on, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes 0 Total number of substan ated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 0 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regula ons concerning the provision and use of products and services 0 Conﬁrmed incidents of corrup on and ac ons taken 0 Total number and percentage of opera ons assessed for risks related to corrup on and the signiﬁcant risks iden ﬁed 0 Total number of legal ac ons for an -compe ve behavior, an -trust, and monopoly prac ces 0 and their outcomes Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanc ons for non-compliance 0 with laws and regula ons Incidents of non-compliance with regula ons and voluntary codes concerning the health 0 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle 29 NGO Funding (in EUR) 2. Suppor ng Chari es and Causes ARK OF THE WORLD 600 Since its establishment in 2006, as a company then and as FREEDOM GATE GREECE 500 Group today, Global Sustain has been dona ng part of its EDRA 3 proﬁts to a number of not-for-proﬁt projects carried out by its NGO members, with the aim of suppor ng speciﬁc social, In 2016, Global Sustain celebrated its 10-year anniversary environmental or other needs in the ci zen sector. since establishment in 2006. On this occasion several This policy, part of the Group's values is par cularly ac vi es and ini a ves took place during the repor ng important in view of today's major social, environmental, year. governance and other pressing challenges. In 2016, Global Sustain funded three NGOs (EUR 1,103) while in 2015 it ﬁnanced ﬁve NGO projects (EUR 1,752). Date 10-Year Anniversary Ac vity Ini a ve A le er was sent to all members for Happy New Year invi ng them to our 10-year birthday party 10.01.2016 with a Global Sustain mug 10.02.2016 Birthday Party and 2016 Pi a Cu ng 10.03.2016 Open day event at our New Oﬃces with food and drinks 10.04.2016 All employees devoted 10 hours of volunteer work in total to Global Sustain NGO members Global Sustain sent a training T-Shirt to members invi ng them to par cipate to a charity 10.05.2016 running event in Athens (the company paid the par cipa on fee for the ﬁrst 10 members) Social media contest from June 10 ll June 20 (10 days) with 10 ques ons, 10.06.2016 and 10 gi s from 10 Global Sustain members to the ﬁrst 10 winners 10.09.2016 Social media contest drawing for Global Sustain Sustainability Forum for 10 days. Global Sustain sponsored 10 Marathon runners for the Athens 10.11.2016 Authen c Marathon (November 13, 2016) with EUR 250. European Pact for Youth 3. Volunteering At Global Sustain we aim at crea ng shared value and posi ve impact on our society. For this reason, we encourage and support employee volunteering. Training, employability and professional integra on of young Volunteering work counts for almost 17-man days. people is of great concern to Global Sustain, which in recent Global Sustain volunteering ac vi es included suppor ng years through an internship program gives young graduates the causes of NGOs through oﬀering work and through of educa onal ins tu ons the opportunity to acquire fundraising running races, as well as addressing students relevant knowledge and skills for their professional and and members' execu ves about CR and sustainability personal development. In 2016, two trainees were employed issues. It is notable that the days of volunteering work in the Group a er signing special agreements with universi es. increased by 9.88% in 2016 compared to 2015, The Group also supported the European Pact for Youth, demonstra ng a strong and growing commitment a mutual engagement of business and of the European Union by Global Sustain employees. leaders ini ated by CSR Europe, with the aim to develop or consolidate partnerships in support of youth employability Volunteering work 2015 2016 and inclusion. (in man days) 15.38 16.9 30 Β.Performance 6. Human Capital G4-10 Human resources cons tute the most dynamic element for and follow health and safety rules so as to avoid poten al Global Sustain growth, and this is why the ﬁrm systema cally occupa onal hazards and protect our employees. The health invests in, selec ng, evalua ng, retaining and developing its and safety of our employees cons tute a ﬁrst priority duty human capital. Global Sustain oﬀers equal employment for management and we always fully comply and respect opportuni es to all employees. In 2016, the gender the equirements laid down by legisla on. employment ra o was 33% for males and 67% for females and the average age of Group's personnel was 36 years. 3. Employee Development G4-LA6, G4-LA9, G4-LA11 Despite the challenging mes, Global Sustain not only retained its workforce but also increased it. Global Sustain Training aims at ensuring that its human resources department func ons in conformity with the values and principles of the We con nually work to develop our people's competencies Code of Conduct, so that all staﬀ ac ons are in line with the and talent. Global Sustain considers professional skills, relevant principles of corporate conduct: exper se and con nuing staﬀ training as a key factor for growth, and for sustaining its compe ve advantage. In Legality terms of our employees' development we have designed and implemented an extensive training program, The customer comes ﬁrst addressing issues related to CR, sustainability, corporate governance, business ethics, energy eﬃciency, etc. Quality of staﬀ Indica vely, our employees par cipated in more than 50 events, conferences and training workshops during the Respect for the environment last year. The average training hours per employee were 40.57, which is 10.24% higher than 2015. Each employee 1. Fair Employment was trained rela vely to his / her exper se and with focus G4-11 on his / her personal and professional development. As a result, we ac vely engaged our employees and built Our Group respects the interna onally recognised principles their capacity, in order to improve our business processes for human rights and fair employment as deﬁned within the and quality of services. Moreover, inves ng in our UN Interna onal Declara on of Human Rights and within the employees' capacity promotes employee reten on and ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Global Sustain a more produc ve working environment. reiterates its commitment to the eﬀec ve aboli on of child Appraisal System labour. The ﬁrm neither employs any children nor is involved in child and/or compulsive labour. Global Sustain adheres to Our appraisal system is crucial for the development of our the minimum age provisions of local na onal labour laws and employees. Through this system, we iden fy strengths regula ons and is highly conscious of its procurement and improvements areas, while we always record ac ons decisions and where the products it purchases or services it that can facilitate employees' professional advancement. uses are produced or delivered. Finally, Global Sustain Our employees' performance is rewarded annually, as the respects that its ambassadors may freely and voluntarily appraisal system is linked to a bonus scheme. establish and join organisa ons of their own choice for upholding the freedom of associa on and the eﬀec ve recogni on of the right to collec ve bargaining. None of Global Sustain employees is currently a member of any trade union. 2. Health and Safety Having as a priority to provide a safe workplace for our employees, we focus on ensuring suitable work condi ons 31 2016 2015 Average training hours per employee 40.57 36.8 Average training hours per gender 40.57 36.8 Percentage of employees who received regular 80% (due to maternity leave) 100% performance and career development reviews Gender (male vs. female) employment ra o M: 33% F: 67% M: 40% F: 60% Average age of personnel (in years) 36 36 Total number of employees 7 full me 5 full me 0 part me 0 part me 7 permanents 5 permanents 2 trainees 4 trainees % of employees covered by collec ve agreements 100% 100% Number of labour accidents 0 0 Lay oﬀs 0 0 Hirings 2 2 4. Internal Communica on Weekly internal mee ngs Regular internal communica on aims to keep staﬀ informed about developments in the Group and to gather staﬀ Ac ve par cipa on in voluntary ac vi es opinions and concerns regarding every day as well as strategic issues. It also aims to enhance corporate culture Team alignment sessions and the implementa on of strategy, the work climate and the overall performance of the Group. For this reason, we Fes ve dinners have established a dialogue with our employees in a systema c way, via internal communica on processes and Conduc ng an employee sa sfac on survey collec ve ac ons, such as: 32 Β.Performance 7. Intellectual Capital Global Sustain is commi ed to enhancing its knowledge “…an important and mely contribu on to the interna onal base, create know-how and share it with is network, crea ng debate on sustainable development…” this way shared value. The Group promotes con nuous United Na ons Environment Programme (UNEP) self-improvement and innova on by implemen ng new “… a mely and much needed publica on…” methods and processes in its func ons. European School of Management and Technology (ESMT) 1. Yearbook “…very inspiring Yearbook…” The Yearbook is an annual publica on, trusted by top European Commission-DG Climate Ac on companies and stakeholders worldwide. Each year we chose a topic of universal interest relevant to the people-planet“…The book is extremely informa ve covering a wide range proﬁt concept and analyse all aspects, through the views of of perspec ves…” interna onally renowned personali es, business leaders, Cranﬁeld University poli cians, visionaries and academia. With more than 1,000 Un l the end of the repor ng year, all 9 publica ons hosted print copies every year, the Yearbook is distributed to more ar cles from 290 writers, sharing invaluable insights and than 40 countries. The Yearbook is also available in digital business intelligence with a global audience. format (eBook), posted on www.globalsustain.org and www.globalsustainyearbook.org and mailed to Global Sustain members, partners, interna onal networks and select media. 33 YEARBOOK PARTICIPANTS 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 Ac vists 4 Authors 9 CEOs 66 Environmentalists 10 European Commission representa ves 8 Financiers 17 Heads of States 4 Interna onal Organisa ons 19 Representa ves Members of Parliaments 20 NGO Leaders 50 Nobel Laureates 1 Opinion Leaders 19 Philanthropists 1 Policy Formers 16 Researchers 35 Spiritual Leaders 2 United Na ons Oﬃcials 9 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 34 sustainability market and strategies, applied by their compe tors and more importantly helps them to, ﬁnd out: where they stand in their respec ve markets; what their compe tors are performing; if they could get a compe ve advantage by 2. CR / Sustainability Reports implemen ng a par cular sustainability program; Each year, Global Sustain tracks and analyses CR / Sustainability Reports, pursuant to its commitment as if there is risk for nega ve exposure or being a GRI Data Partner for Greece and Cyprus. GRI and non-GRI perceived as lagging in the area; reports are classiﬁed and recorded by Global Sustain in GRI's what metrics are used by their compe tors Global Sustainability Repor ng Database. Through this pro and their peers; bono partnership with GRI, Global Sustain produces intellectual capital and market intelligence that it is shared what steps need to be taken to diﬀeren ate online to the rest of the world with regard to sustainability themselves. repor ng trends, best prac ces and other relevant informa on. This engagement also contributes to tracking Global Sustain Benchmark Reports address sectors such as repor ng disclosure according to the SDG #12.6 globally. Food, Hospitality and Leisure, Airport / Airline Support, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Pharmaceu cals, Cement and 3. Global Sustain Benchmarks Building Materials, Banking and Finance. Global Sustain publishes special reports, under the tle 4. Training “Global Sustain Benchmarks”. These reports are the result Global Sustain is dedicated to crea ng and sharing knowledge of a unique market analysis approach supported by: with its stakeholders, through training seminars and events related to sustainability. Global Sustain deep understanding of the sector under considera on and its respec ve business Sustainability Forum processes. The annual Sustainability Forum oﬀers a unique educa onal experience, valuable knowledge, professional development The analysis of the processes of leading and know-how to the par cipants. It brings together companies in the respec ve sectors. sustainability professionals, corporate responsibility and green economy prac oners and the opportunity Global Sustain access to interna onal to network with peers who build proﬁtable and sustainable sustainability databases. business models, services and products (www.sustainabilityforum.eu). Un l now Global Sustain has Global Sustain market intelligence collected organised ﬁve Sustainability Forums in Greece, one in Berlin through more than 10 years of engagement and has trained more than 400 execu ves and market with interna onal leading sustainability prac oners. networks and prac oners. Round tables The Reports, are available (at a cost) to interested par es Global Sustain organises informa onal and and include informa on on economic, social and knowledge sharing roundtables with environmental market issues for the select companies and business execu ves in collabora on demonstrate the way these companies address certain with interna onal οrganisa ons, academia CR / Sustainability areas related to their business strategy, and ins tu ons. In 2016, the company based on both exis ng exper se and best prac ces from organized: other companies. The Reports aim to give interested companies an opportunity to acquire a be er view of the 35 companies interested in crea ng a culture within their in Athens, the Cause Marke ng Seminar: company and capacity building to drive the sustainability Where Proﬁt meets Purpose, with agenda. Thomas Kolster. 5. Global Sustain Trademark in Athens, a roundtable on the EU Non-Financial Repor ng Direc ve. Global Sustain is registered in the European Union with the Oﬃce for Harmoniza on in Berlin, a roundtable on the EU Non-Financial in the Internal Market Trade Marks Repor ng Direc ve with the coopera on and Designs. Global Sustain Trademark is what diﬀeren ates of Credit Reform. our products and services in the market, reﬂec ng our values in London, a roundtable on Circular Economy and protec ng our compe ve advantage. It is considered with the coopera on of Oury Clark and the one of the most valuable assets, part of our intellectual Thames Valley Chamber of Commerce. property, with important contribu on to the success of our business. In-house training The company creates tailored in-house training and e-learning programmes related to sustainability for 36 6. Collabora ons G4-15, G4-16 Collabora ons create signiﬁcant business and market intelligence as well as intellectual capital, therefore, Global Sustain has engaged into strategic collabora ons with leading interna onal organisa ons. Global Sustain is: A Data Partner for Greece and Cyprus of the Global Repor ng Ini a ve and GRI Gold Community member since 2011 A UN Global Compact signatory and founding member of the Global Compact Network Hellas, since 2008 and a member of Global Compact Network Belgium since 2014 A signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Ini a ve, an interna onal network of investors working together to put the six Principles for Responsible Investment into prac ce, since 2014 A member and ambassador of the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), since 2015 A member of Social Value Interna onal, the largest interna onal social value network in the world, since 2014 A member of EFQM, a not-for-proﬁt founda on, established to support sustainable economic development, since 2014 An aﬃliate member of ABIS The Academy of Business in Society, since 2013 A member of the CEO Clubs Interna onal, since 2013 A member of CSR Hellas (member of CSR Europe), since 2012 A member of the American-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce, since 2012 A member of the Hellenic – Dutch Associa on of Commerce and Industry, since 2014 A member of the Greek Associa on of Environmental Protec on Companies, since 2012 A member and partner of CSRwire, Inc., U.S.A., The Corporate Social Responsibility Newswire, since 2007 A partner of Ethical Performance, since 2010 A member of the Ins tute of Directors (IOD), since 2014 A member of CAPITALS Circle Group, since 2015 A member of the German Federal Associa on for Sustainability, since 2016 37 7. FSC License G4-15 1 Cer ﬁca ons in sustainability Global Sustain has signed a Trademark 2 Stakeholder engagement License Agreement with the FSC 3 Green adver sing Interna onal, in order to use the FSC 4 CO₂ footprint Trademark to promote FSC cer ﬁed 5 Health and safety products as well as Global Sustain 6 Responsible supply chain in the food sector responsible business prac ces. Through 7 Sustainable Development Goals this partnership, Global Sustain informs 8 Leadership team alignment its stakeholders about the FSC system raising awareness 9 Circular economy about responsible supply chains and sustainable forestry. 10 Employee volunteerism 8. Brunch 9. Public Awareness In 2015, Global Sustain introduced a new service aiming to In 2016, Global Sustain engaged in strategic partnerships support further networking and intellectual capital crea on with high proﬁle media and adver sing companies. among its members and provide them up-to-date and Collabora ons with publishing groups and adver sing targeted knowledge. Brunch mee ngs take place every agencies contributed to the crea on of a more structured month at Global Sustain oﬃces, with diﬀerent topics, always image of Global Sustain raising awareness of the brand, as related to sustainability and responsible business. These well as sustainability issues within the business community. mee ngs are for free and open to all Global Sustain members Global Sustain execu ves contribute in depth ar cles to daily who have a special interest to the topic. In 2016, Global press and specialised magazines, informing about Sustain organised 10 brunch mee ngs, with 78 par cipants sustainability trends and developments. In the repor ng year, represen ng either corpora ons or non-proﬁts (52% Global Sustain published 229 ar cles in print media and 441 companies and 48% NGOs). The themes of the brunches in web media, sharing knowledge with a large audience. that took place in 2016 were: 38 Β.Performance 8. Natural Capital G4-14 Global Sustain complies with environmental laws where it 3. Greenhouse Gases Emissions operates. Our environmental policy represents G4-15 Management's commitment to operate with respect to the As part of the precau onary principle endorsement we environment and the social partners. In the repor ng year follow a two-sided approach to reduce our GHG emissions. the Group had zero ﬁnes and non-monetary sanc ons for On the one hand, we implement new technologies and non-compliance with applicable environmental laws and processes that help reduce our carbon footprint and on the regula ons. All ﬁgures and data reported in this sec on refer other, we conduct awareness campaigns to educate and to the Group's Athens oﬃce, where most of the opera ons encourage our employees to protect natural resources by take place. In the future, data from other Group's loca ons lowering the use of paper and energy. will also be reported. Global Sustain plans to be a 100% climate neutral and zero1. Environmental Policy waste Group. This vision refers to both its opera ons (e.g. Our commitment is summarised in the following principles: oﬃces, logis cs, staﬀ movements) and its products / services (e.g. Websites, exhibi ons, events, the Yearbooks). In view endorsement of the precau onary principle of this commitment, Global Sustain has oﬀset the carbon and applica on of good environmental emissions of its websites globalsustain.org, prac ces; sustainabilityforum.eu and globalsustainyearbook.org as considera on of the environmental impact well its business opera ons of its Athens oﬃces. The Group within the processes of development and for its Athens opera on measured, managed and oﬀset engineering of our products and services; 16,795 kg of CO₂ for 2016 (12,487 kg in 2015) opera ng as a 100% carbon neutral Group subsidiary and received the preven on of pollu on by reduc on CO₂ NeutralSeal, a cer ﬁca on providing an integrated GHG of emissions and waste and eﬃcient Management approach. use of energy; promo on of the idea of environmental responsibility among our employees; monitoring of our environmental performance and se ng measurable objec ves and targets for achieving sustainable improvement; annual audit of our procedures to ensure conformance to our policy. 2. Recycling Recycling prac ces mainly refer to the responsible use of paper. The total volume of paper used for promo onal, business and publica ons material was 2.35 tons. Our main objec ve is to reduce the amount of paper consump on overall within the Group by con nuing to review our use of paper for marke ng material, and other supplies. In 2016, Global Sustain used 100% FSC® content paper and used FSC® cer ﬁed paper to produce the “Yearbook 2015/16” meaning that prin ng process and paper used for producing this publica on conforms to FSC® standards. 39 2016 2015 Kg Kg 2016 vs. 2015 Ac vity % % CO2 eq. CO2 eq. Transport and logis cs 3,357 20,0% 2,097 16,8% 1,260 Energy (hea ng, cooling) 7,323 43,6% 5,682 45,5% 1,640 Materials, Products 743 4,4% 458 3,7% 285 Travel 5,329 31,7% 4,205 33,7% 1,123 Waste 44 0,3% 44 0,4% 0 Total 16,795 12,487 4,308 Man-days 1,925 1,348 Kg CO₂ eq. / Man-day 8.7 9.3 4. Energy and Water Consump on number of people working in the company, thus consuming In 2016, Global Sustain consumed about 7,265 kWh more energy in addi on to lower winter temperatures. in indirect energy, increased by 42.20% compared to 2015. Furthermore, we es mate that we used approximately 22 m³ This is due to the business growth and to the increase in the of water in 2016, same levels as in 2015. 40 Β.Performance 9. Targets Global Sustain has a clear strategic plan for the coming years and we are commi ed to achieving sustainable success and excellence in all our opera ons. The following targets are set over the next three years. Financial Capital 1 1. Revenue and net proﬁt increase by 20% on an annual basis. 2. Net proﬁt to be at least 20% of our revenue. 3. Establish a comprehensive credit policy minimising credit and liquidity risk. Social Capital 2 1. Support one social cause/ini a ve with employee engagement. 2. Con nue our NGO funding programme. 3. Turn at least one internship into permanent posi on every year. Human Capital 3 1. Conduct a training session for all employees on health and safety. 2. Increase average training to 45 hours / employee per year. 3. Increase our fullme staﬀ by at least one employee per year. Intellectual Capital 4 1. Ini ate annually, one innova on in services, products or processes. 2. Form at least one new interna onal network collabora on per year. 3. Establish the Berlin Responsible Investments Forum in the global agenda. Natural Capital 5 1. Be a 100% carbon neutral Group and oﬀset all emissions. 2. Ensure 100% FSC® cer ﬁca on in all our publica ons. 3. Support one environmental cause/ini a ve with employee engagement. 41 C.ANNEXES 2016 42 c.Annexes 1. GRI G4 and AA1000APS Indexes AA1000APS (2008) Principles Report Sec on The fundamental Principle of Inclusiveness A.5, p.13, A.6, p.15 The Principle of Materiality A.6, p.15 The Principle of Responsiveness A.5, p.13, A.6, p.15, B.1-9, p.17-41 GRI G4 Content Index for “In accordance Core” General Index Descrip on Report Sec on / Notes External Standard Assurance Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisa on A.2, p.06 v ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisa on A.2, p.06 v G4-4 Primary brands, products and services B.2.1, p.20 v G4-5 Loca on of the organisa on's headquarters A.3, p.08 v G4-6 Number of countries where the organisa on operates A.3, p.08 v G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form A.4.1, p.09 v G4-8 Markets served A.4.1, p.09 v G4-9 Scale of the organiza on (key ﬁgures) A.4, p.09, B.2.1, p.20, v B.4.1, p.27 G4-10 Key ﬁgures on Human Resources B.6, p.31 All employees are counted v on a group level and there are no seasonal employees. G4-11 Collec ve agreements B.6.1, p.31 v G4-12 Supply Chain B.4.2, p.28 v G4-13 Signiﬁcant changes during the repor ng period regarding A.2, p.06, A.4.1, p.09 v the organisa on's size, structure, ownership or its supply chain G4-14 Precau onary principle B.1.3, p.18, B.8, p.39 v G4-15 Economic, environmental and social charters, principles and ini a ves B.1.4, p.18, B.7.6, p.37, v B.7.7, p.38, B.8.3, p.39 G4-16 Associa ons and na onal or interna onal advocacy organiza ons B.1.4, p.18, B.7.6, p.37 v IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 En es included in the organisa on's ﬁnancial statements A.3, p.07, B.4.1, p.27 v G4-18 Process for deﬁning the report content and the aspect boundaries A.3, p.07 v G4-19 Material aspects A.6, p.15 v G4-20 Material aspect boundaries (within the organisa on) A.6, p.15 v G4-21 Material aspect boundaries (outside the organisa on) A.6, p.15 v G4-22 Restatements of informa on provided in previous reports The company has done v no restatements. G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries A.2, p.06, A.3, p.07 v STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholders A.5, p.13 v G4-25 Basis for iden ﬁca on and selec on of stakeholders A.5, p.13 Our stakeholder groups remain the same. v G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement A.5, p.13, A.6, p.15 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised by the stakeholders A.5, p.13, A.6, p.15 v 43 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Repor ng period A.3, p.07 v G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Our latest report is v Integrated Report 2015 G4-30 Repor ng cycle Annual v G4-31 Contact person regarding the report A.3, p.07 v G4-32 “In accordance” op on A.3, p.07, C.1, p.43 v G4-33 External assurance A.3, p.07, C.5, p.48 v GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organisa on A.4.1, p.09, B.1, p.18 v ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour of the organisa on A.4.2, p.11, B.1, p.18 v SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Index Descrip on Report Sec on / Notes External Standard Assurance Disclosures CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach A.4, p.09, B.4.1, p.27, B.5, p.29 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed A.4, p.09, B.4.1, p.27, B.5, p.29 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach B.1.1, p.18, B.6.2, p.31, B.6.3, p.31 G4-LA6 Safety of the working environment Number of unpaid leaves per gender F:6 M:0 Number of sick leaves per gender F:8 M:3 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach B.6.3, p.31 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender B.6.3, p.31 v and by employee category G4-LA11 Employee evalua on B.6.3, p.31 v SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach B.1.2, p.18, B.1.4, p.18, B.5.1, p.29 G4-SO5 Incidents of corrup on B.5.1, p.29 v SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach B.2.2, p.22 G4-PR5 Customer sa sfac on surveys B.2.2, p.22 v MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach B.1.2, p.18, B.5.1, p.29 G4-PR8 Complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy B.5.1, p.29 v 44 c.Annexes 2. United Na ons Global Compact Communica on on Progress The 10 Principles of the United Na ons Global Compact and how they relate to Global Sustain Communica on on Progress Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec on of interna onally proclaimed human rights Commitment: Report sec on B.4.2, B.5.1, B.6.1 Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment: Report sec on: B.4.2, B.6.1 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa on and the eﬀec ve recogni on of the right to collec ve bargaining Commitment: Report sec on: B.6.1 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimina on of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Commitment: Report sec on: B.4.2 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the eﬀec ve aboli on of child labour Commitment: Report sec on: B.4.2, B.6.1 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimina on of discrimina on in respect of employment and occupa on Commitment: Report sec on: B.6.1 Environment Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precau onary approach to environmental challenges Commitment: Report sec on: B.8.1 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake ini a ves to promote greater environmental responsibility Commitment: Report sec on: B.8 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally-friendly technologies Commitment: Report sec on: B.8 An corrup on Principle 10: Business should work against corrup on in all its forms, including extor on and bribery Commitment: Report sec on: B.1.2, B.5.1 45 c.Annexes 3. Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals Sec on/GRI indices 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutri on, and promote sustainable agriculture 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality educa on and promote lifelong learning opportuni es B.2, B.5, B.6, (G4-LA9) for all (Targets 4.4 and 4.7) 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls (Targets 5.1 and 5.5) B.2, B.5, B.6, (G4-LA9) 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanita on for all 7 Ensure access to aﬀordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and produc ve employment, B.4 (G4-EC1), and decent work for all (Targets 8.2, 8.3, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8 and 8.10) B.6 (G4-10, G4-11, G4-LA9, G4-LA11) 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisa on, and foster innova on 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries 11 Make ci es and human se lements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 12 Ensure sustainable consump on and produc on pa erns (Targets 12.5, 12.6 and 12.8) B.7 13 Take urgent ac on to combat climate change and its impacts (Target 13.3) B.8 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage B.7 forests, combat deser ﬁca on and halt and reverse land degrada on, and halt biodiversity loss (Targets 15.2 and 15.9b) 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive socie es for sustainable development, provide access to jus ce B.1, B.4, B.5, B.6 (G4-SO4, for all and build eﬀec ve, accountable and inclusive ins tu ons at all levels (Targets 16.5, 16.7 G4-PR8, G4-56) and 16.10) 17 Strengthen the means of implementa on and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable B.7 development (Targets 17.16 and 17.17) 46 c.Annexes 4. Principles for Responsible Investment Signatory of: The Principles for Responsible investors, academics and other advisors to dra a set of Investment (PRI) Ini a ve was sustainable investment principles (for more info please launched by the United visit h ps://www.unpri.org). The six principles of the PRI Na ons in 2006 a er former UN Secretary-General Koﬁ Annan ini a ve are the following: brought together a group of the world's largest ins tu onal 1 We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. 2 We will be ac ve owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and prac ces. 3 We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the en es in which we invest. 4 We will promote acceptance and implementa on of the Principles within the investment industry. 5 We will work together to enhance our eﬀec veness in implemen ng the Principles. 6 We will each report on our ac vi es and progress towards implemen ng the Principles. Global Sustain is a signatory to the PRI since 2014 as of the PRI. In 2016 Global Sustain has undertaken the a professional service provider. In line with this commitment, following ac ons and ini a ves towards responsible/ESG Global Sustain, for the second me gives an outline of its (Environmental, Social, Governance) investments: ac ons and ini a ves about the applica on of Principle 6 Berlin Responsible Investment Forum 2016: Global Sustain organised for the ﬁrst me a very successful forum on Green Finance and Responsible Investments in Berlin with the coopera on of interna onal partners. For more informa on visit www.sustainabilityforum.de Athens Sustainability Forum 2016: Global Sustain hosted interna onal ESG/SRI partners like the European Investment Bank and Arabesque Partners to address the Forum. Editorials in press: Global Sustain published in the local printed and electronic press, ar cles and editorials about the signiﬁcance and rise of responsible investments. Research and surveys: Global Sustain par cipated in periodical surveys that PRI and other signatories convene regarding responsible investment prac ces and trends. PRI membership to Global Sustain: PRI is a member to Global Sustain and Global Sustain through its popular website and newsle er promotes PRI research, surveys, ar cles, press releases and ac vi es of PRI, especially PRI’s most prominent event (PRI in Person 2016). Professional services: Global Sustain oﬀers custom, high-level professional services to corporates and organisa ons ge ng them ready for ESG investors including ESG strategy, benchmarking, ESG investor presenta ons and investment road shows. Conferences and events: Global Sustain execu ves par cipate in several conferences and events with public speaking, raising awareness about responsible inves ng with references to PRI and the 6 principles. 47 c.Annexes 5. Third Party Assurance INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL VERIFICATION REPORT To: Management of GLOBAL SUSTAIN LTD 1. Independent Veriﬁca on Report The company GLOBAL SUSTAIN LTD (herea er GLOBAL SUSTAIN) has commissioned TÜV HELLAS (TÜV NORD) S.A. (herea er TÜV HELLAS) to provide limited external assurance concerning the Integrated Report for the period of January 1st of 2016 to December 31st of 2016 (1/1/2016-12/31/2016). 2. Scope of the veriﬁca on project of the Integrated Report Scope of the assurance project is the conduc on of the Applica on Level Check, according to the GRI G4 Guidelines Sustainability Repor ng, referring to the Integrated Report of GLOBAL SUSTAIN for 2016. The Applica on Level Check was conducted based on the corresponding correla on table of GRI G4 Indicators stated by GLOBAL SUSTAIN in its Integrated Report , in order to conﬁrm the company’s compliance to the requirements of the GRI G4 for the “In accordance Core” Level. 3. The conclusions of TÜV HELLAS During the assurance project carried out, nothing came to the a en on of TÜV HELLAS which would lead to the conclusion that the Report does not meet to the requirements of the GRI G4 for the “In accordance_Core” Level, as reﬂected on the corresponding correla on table of GRI G4 Indicators . 4. Review Limita ons The assurance process focused on the core ac vi es of GLOBAL SUSTAIN. No visits and interviews in subsidiaries and stakeholders of GLOBAL SUSTAIN has been conducted. 5. Review Methodology In order to draw conclusions, the external assurance team of TÜV HELLAS conducted the following (indica ve and not restric ve) methodology: Ø Reviewed the procedures followed by GLOBAL SUSTAIN to iden fy and determine the Material issues in order to include them within the Integrated Report . Ø Interviews were conducted with selected execu ves of GLOBAL SUSTAIN having opera onal role in Sustainability issues in order to understand the current state of corporate responsibility ac vi es and progress achieved during the period under reference. Ø Reviewed the GLOBAL SUSTAIN consulta on approach with its stakeholders through interviews with execu ves responsible for communica on with the interested par es at company level and review of selected documents. 6. Responsibili es and Func ons The Sustainability team of GLOBAL SUSTAIN carried out the Integrated Report , thus, is responsible for the informa on and statements contained therein . The Level Check conducted does not represent TÜV HELLAS’ opinion related to the quality of the Integrated Report and its contents. The responsibility of TÜV HELLAS is to express the independent conclusions on the issues as deﬁned in the project scope and in accordance to the relevant contract. The project was conducted in such a way so that TÜV HELLAS can present to GLOBAL SUSTAIN ’s administra on the issues men oned in this report and for no other purpose. 48 INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL VERIFICATION REPORT 7. Impar ality and Independence of the Veriﬁca on Team TÜV HELLAS states its impar ality and independence in rela on to the project of assuring the Integrated Report of GLOBAL SUSTAIN . TÜV HELLAS have not undertaken work with GLOBAL SUSTAIN and did not have any coopera on with the interested par es that could compromise the independence or impar ality of the ﬁndings and conclusions.TÜV HELLAS was not involved in the prepara on of the text and data presented in the Integrated Report of GLOBAL SUSTAIN . Athens, December 1, 2017 For TÜV HELLAS (TÜV NORD) S.A. Nestor Paparoupas Sustainability Product Manager 49 Lead Sustainable Change for a Be er Future Global Sustain Group www.globalsustain.org
