FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 0-1 Contents 2 Vision, Mission and Values 4 Message from the Chairmen 6 About Fransabank 8 Our Strategic Direction to Corporate Social Responsibility 9 Our Selected UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 10 Our Stakeholders, Engagement and Communication 12 Our Materiality Assessment 15 About the Report Diligent Governance 19 Corporate Governance Framework 20 Managing Risk 20 Business Ethics 23 Protecting the Bank’s and its Customers’ Information Accessible Finance 27 Lending Responsibly 27 Financial Inclusion 30 Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Financing 31 Innovative Entrepreneurship 33 Accessible Homeownership 34 Putting Clients First 37 Connecting with the Lebanese Diaspora through Businesses 37 Supply Chain Management Fostering a Diverse Workplace 41 Diversity and Inclusion 43 Learning and Development 44 Creating Tomorrow’s Leaders 44 Integrating Employees Environmental Engagement 50 Investing Responsibly 51 Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) 52 Partnerships, MoUs, and Green Awards 54 SEF and SDG 13 – Climate Action 55 Taking our Experience Overseas 56 Reducing our Ecological Footprint 58 Favoring Green Initiatives Social Commitment 63 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 68 A Culture on the Go 71 An Aspiring Society Supplementary Information 76 Select Awards 77 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Content Index 82 Our Implementation of the UN Global Compact 10 Principles 84 Our Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 86 Code of Conduct and Professional Ethics 87 Information Security Vision, Mission and Values Fransabank approach to Corporate Social Responsibility reflects in the Bank’s vision, mission, and values Vision We aspire to be the leading banking group, the trusted partner and the responsible contributor in the communities we serve. Mission We are determined to be a leading financial institution within both the local and regional markets, while providing quality services to our customers, throughout innovative, cutting edge, and value added banking services and financial solutions. To achieve our mission, we are committed to: • C  onsolidate and expand our presence in selective regional and international markets • A  dopt and implement the highest international banking and finance norms, standards, corporate governance, and diligent compliance practices • E  xceed our customers’ expectations and fulfill their needs and demands • S  trive for distinguished quality service for our existing and potential customers • P  romote professional development, quality performance, decisionmaking and teamwork within our Group • G  enerate increasing value for our shareholders in a dynamic manner and on solid sustainable grounds • A  lign responsible business practices and social investments to create long-term value and sustainability for our Group along with its communities. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 2-3 Values Integrity Gaining the trust of our customers, colleagues and other stakeholders by taking responsibility for our own actions Loyalty Showing devotion and faithfulness to our institution and our customers Credibility Demonstrating high level of trustworthiness and expertise in all what we do Accountability Taking responsibility for all our actions Transparency Providing our customers with all relevant information regarding their rights and duties Message from the Chairmen Adnan Kassar | Chairman Adel Kassar | Deputy Chairman “ We abide by a sound corporate governance, work for economic progress, support our workforce, face environmental challenges, and create social values. We believe that these five pillars set the direction for a future-oriented business strategy that would “ embrace economic success as much as social responsibility. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 4-5 Fransabank’s approach to Accordingly, we sustained actively participated in several Corporate Social Responsibility our microfinance and small discussions about the SDGs, (CSR) is based on five and medium size enterprises showcasing Fransabank dimensions of sustainability: financing approach that are endeavors towards selected abide by a sound corporate intended to drive inclusive SDGs, whereby we have chosen governance, work for economic growth and help people advance so far to use our expertise to progress, support the workforce, in their society. We provide advance six SDGs in particular: face environmental challenges, sustainable energy finance “Quality Education”, “Gender and create social values. We loans and eco-loans to limit the Equality”, “Decent Work and believe that these five pillars impacts on climate change by Economic Growth”, “Industry, set the direction for a futurethe investments we make and Innovation and Infrastructure”, oriented business strategy the credits we grant. We support “Sustainable Cities”, and that would embrace economic youth financial education and “Climate Action”. success as much as social inclusion in order to empower responsibility. the future generation to achieve Trust underpins our core their full potential, and help business values; it helps us Throughout the years, we remove social and economic secure long term relations came up to recognizing the barriers that hold them back. with our stakeholders based need to carefully weigh our Furthermore, our social on confidence and a clear actions and to consider the commitments include strategic understanding of their needs broader economic, social and partnerships, financial support with what they expect from environmental impacts of our for charitable institutions, us as a Bank. Our CSR report activities – making sure that and contributions to cultural is designed to be part of our short-term interests do not expansion. Yet, we strongly stakeholders, dialogue and undercut our longer-term believe that our employee communication on progress, objectives. engagement constitutes the offering insights into the way we backbone of our impact and our live up to our responsibilities. In 2016, we updated our programs, success. CSR strategy, whereby we Yet, we at Fransabank, will assimilate corporate Our commitment to a recognize that we don’t have all responsibility further in our responsible business also solutions of society’s challenges core activities ensuring that includes endorsing strategic at our fingertips. With an our business is governed international agreements. understanding of the priorities by responsibility, financial We are committed to the ten and concerns of our customers, confidence, and personalized principles of the United Nations partners and people, whenever financial services among our Global Compact (UNGC) and a positive opportunity presents customers and in society as a constantly do our best to develop itself, we contribute with our whole. our sustainability performance. best expertise. Amid growing calls for a Our CSR strategy prioritizes the transition to a more sustainable While we still have more work to areas where we can have the economy, the UN presented its do, we are pleased to feature our greatest impact and influence. Sustainable Development Goals achievements in this report. (SDGs) in 2015. Fransabank Sincerely, Adel Kassar Adnan Kassar Deputy Chairman Chairman About Fransabank A leading financial and universal banking player, Fransabank Group offers tailored retail, commercial, corporate, investment and international banking products that meet the evolving needs of the societies it serves, through its 158 branches spread across the world. The Group is present in 10 articles 26 and 49 of the Lebanese spread all over the Lebanese countries, namely in Lebanon, code of commerce). territory; this is in addition France, Algeria, Belarus, Cyprus, to a total of 19 banking and Fransabank Group enjoys today Sudan, Iraq, Cuba, UAE, and non-banking subsidiaries and the ranking of a top three leading Ivory Coast. Established since associates. Fransabank Group Lebanese financial group. With 1921 in Lebanon and listed 1st succeeded in positioning itself as more than 95 years of financial amongst registered banks (it a forward-looking, trustworthy, legacy in its mother land, has been registered in the proper dynamic, innovative, and socially Lebanon, Fransabank Group Register of Commerce since responsible financial group. has the largest local branch October 9, 1971 under number network with 124 branches 25699 in accordance with the two Ivory Iraq Coast Present in 158 3,561 branches employees 10 across as of countries the world December 31, 2016 FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 6-7 Our business model is based focus on cultural, environmental, on our solid partnership with social and governance functions our customers, our employees’ makes us a robust and more Fransabank proficiency and expertise, and of sustainable Bank. Products & course the diverse products and services we provide. We contribute Corporate Social Responsibility is Services to society as a financial interembedded in our vision, mission, RETAIL BANKING mediary, taxpayer, and through values and core business. In our CSR initiatives. This makes 2016, we revised and updated • Small & Medium Size us a responsible player in our CSR strategy by further Business Financing our communities engaging in the incorporating responsible • Payment Cards pressing societal issues through practices in our core activities • Accounts • Loans our commitment to the United and instilling this culture further • Saving & Insurance Products Nations Global Compact principles among our employees’ behavior • Micro Credits and the UN Sustainable and practices. We want to ensure • E-Services Development Goals (SDGs). that our business is managed • Special Services in a responsible way, and that Our stakeholders are at the heart we use our expertise to build up CORPORATE BANKING of our business development and financial confidence and access • Working Capital Financing continuity. We rely on our longto financial services amongst our • Medium & Long Term Loans term relationships with them to clients and in society all together. • Structured Finance build new strategies and reach • Syndicated Loans better responsible practices. Our • Trade Finance • Overdrafts • Leasing Services “Lebanese Fransabank Financial Highlights Leasing Company SAL” • Real Estate “Société Générale as end of December 31, 2016 Foncière SAL” INVESTMENT BANKING Total Assets Financial Advisory USD 20.86 billion • Mergers & Acquisitions • Equity Capital Markets • Private Investments • Corporate Equity/Debt Net Profit Advisory USD 200.9 million • Re-Organization • Balance Sheet Re-Structuring in 2016 Equity & Debt Financing • Corporate & Project Financing Total Customers’ Deposits • Syndicated Financing USD 17.01 billion • Feasibility Studies • Legal & Financial Due Diligence • Debt/Equity Structuring • Equity Placements • Debt Settlement Arrangement Net Loans & Advances to Customers USD 6.53 billion PRIVATE BANKING / ASSET MANAGEMENT • Advisory Total Customers • Wealth Management 437,372 • Capital Market/Brokerage • Structured Products • Research Our Strategic Direction to Corporate Social Responsibility Our updated CSR strategy for the period 2016 to 2018 focuses on integrating Corporate Social Responsibility further in our core business. We aim to do this by establishing common grounds and clear directives The CSR initiatives should on integrating a holistic sustainability approach. Our ambition is to involve all of Fransabank stakeapply CSR at all levels within Fransabank. That would affect the products holders, divisions, departments, and services we supply, the customer experience we offer, and the way branches and delivery channels. we conduct our business. As part of the process of updating the strategy, For that purpose, we have to we pulled together feedback from a number of stakeholders for our focus on motivating employees as analysis; the latters are clearly explained in the stakeholders’ engagekey players for the Bank’s growth ment and materiality assessment sections. and success, improving client relations to reach our target of top-notch client satisfaction, promoting a paperless banking strategy, and integrating employees To use our expertise and competencies for the benefit of society, we in volunteerism initiatives. have identified strategic themes in areas where we can add value. Through our business, we can contribute to the communities by Each strategic line is developed providing: through various tactical CSR • Sustainable energy financing, which is about showcasing actions; some of these actions positive environmental impact through our loans; are being already applied within the Bank’s operations such • Economic development, which is about promoting our posias programs on sustainable tive contribution to the economy through our corporate, SME, energy finance, on SMEs and consumer and micro-credit loans; microcredits, as well as, youth • Youth financial education and inclusion, which is about financial education and inclueducating and integrating the youth in the financial stream; sion. Other actions are under study; such as how we can better • C ommunity support, which is about measuring our value measure the societal impact of -added contribution to the community; our initiatives. Yet, we should still • And of course being a responsible employer. be vigilant in ensuring that the implementation of the strategic plan is effectively executed and constantly monitored. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 8-9 Our Selected UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Fr a n s a b a n k p a y s d e e p We believe that the SDGs are consideration to the new set critical for a constructive transof 17 measurable Sustainable formation of today’s world, as Development Goals (SDGs), well as, the long-term success UNDP – Lebanon: formally accepted by the UN of our business. Accordingly, “Together Towards General Assembly in 2015, and we contribute directly to the Sustainable which range from ending world advancement of selected SDGs Development“ poverty and hunger to fightthrough our CSR strategy and ing climate change, promoting initiatives. We have chosen to Fransabank is proud to be quality education, protecting the advance in specific: the sole representative of environment, and addressing all the banking sector to take forms of inequality. part in the United Nations Development Program Lebanon Lobbying Group with representatives from the private sector. The Goal 4 Goal 9 purpose is to work on yearly objectives to achieve, by 2030, the 17 SDGs, bringing together businesses committed to aligning their efforts with the goals. For the year 2017, the Board Goal 5 Goal 11 agreed to focus on Goal 4 – Quality Education through targeted initiatives that would be held on a national level, achievable in the short-term, and can be replicable in different Goal 8 Goal 13 industries. But as the 17 SDGs are ambitious and concrete, with each goal supported by sub-goals and targets, and since they are highly cross-related, our contribution has additional indirect impacts on other goals’ advancement. Our Stakeholders’ Engagement and Communication At Fransabank, CSR activities are managed in a well-thought-out, strategic way to make sure we stay on course, keep our stakeholders involved and informed, and measure our progress. Addressing our CSR priorities requires working with our internal and external stakeholders and other partners from the public and private sectors who share our vision and values. We conduct stakeholder dialogues and one-on-one meetings to better engage with parties of interest and act on their feedback. A Snapshot of our Stakeholders’ Engagement Customers CSR Framework We strive to act from a long-term perspective for our customers’ benefit in a transparent way. Customer satisfaction surveys are conducted periodically. Customer complaints are handled professionally and in a timely manner. Engagement Platforms Employees Marketing research surveys One-to-one meetings CSR Framework Workshops and conferences We see our employees with their Financial consumer protection unit skills, expertise and dedication as The Bank’s delivery channels Shareholders our greatest assets. Management (branches, call center, electronic is committed to maintaining a good, banking, mobile banking, social CSR Framework honest and collaborative dialogue media, email, among others). We want to inform investors, with the employees. analysts and shareholders openly and adequately about the Bank’s results and achievements. Engagement Platforms Focus groups Regular communication campaigns Engagement Platforms via intranet, publications, General meetings e-newsletters, and social media. Presentation to the Board of Directors of the Banks’ CSR initiatives and outcomes Annual reports CSR reports. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 10-11 Regulatory The media, interest groups authorities and local communities CSR Framework CSR Framework We are the trustworthy partner that We want to share our expertise and knowledge proactively in a manner that provides reliable information about creates real value. Fransabank, the financial sector and the economy in general. We invite the interest groups to our events, provide them with all relevant information through our press releases and publications. Engagement Platforms Systematic reporting Engagement Platforms Meetings and conferences Strategic collaborations Periodical audits Sponsorships Economic bulletin Events Market index. Social media. Business partners and suppliers CSR Framework We act to establish lasting ethical relationships based on innovation and trust with our business partners and suppliers. Engagement Platforms Meetings Email communication. Our Materiality Assessment The information gathered from our stakeholders’ engagement sessions provides essential input to our materiality assessment – the process of identifying those issues that are core to the Bank’s sustainable development. Our materiality assessment guides for reporting and informs our strategic approach. Methodology Assessment Procedure Materiality assessment is In selecting and ranking the material issues, we have used a detailed essential in order to determine procedure based on the principles of relativity, importance and ranking. the matters which have the most The procedure involved: significant economic, environmental and social impacts on Step 1 our Bank, or those matters Determining and understanding the issues significant to our stakeviewed most important by our holders, through a series of practices: a Corporate Social Responsibility internal and external stakepresentation to the Board members, discussions with the top holders. Accordingly, we have management, focus groups with employees, and through benchmarking actively involved our stakewith the latest international banking sector reports with reference to holders in order to come up the identified material issues. In addition, we conducted in-depth interwith a list of the most signifiviews with selected retail and corporate customers, as well as, selected cant issues relevant to our core NGOs in order to understand their expectations from the banking business. sector, how banks should improve their CSR initiaitive impacts and the current sustainability challenges they face. At the end of each Since we have embarked in the session, attendees filled a questionnaire whereby they prioritized the year 2015 on our first materiality most material issues to them whether on the short, medium or long assessment exercise, we had term. identified 23 topics that are material to Fransabank and to Step 2 its stakeholders. We based our Identifying and categorizing the most significant issues, as they arise materiality assessment for the from the revised CSR strategy of the Bank, the outcome of the year 2016 on the outcome of the questionnaire with the internal and external stakeholders and their first exercise and have put into feedback. operation an inclusive process of materiality to come up with Step 3 our first materiality matrix after Bringing together the results into a matrix, and evaluating each issue being reviewed and approved by on the basis of its more general social, environmental and economic the Bank’s top management. impact, based on a scale of 110 (1 being the least important to 10 most important). Each issue was evaluated and given a materiality ranking in accordance with its importance to stakeholders and the Bank. Step 4 Ensuring the marketability assessment is approved by senior management. Subsequently, the report includes all issues with the highest level of materiality. Issues of less materiality are briefly discussed. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 12-13 While working on addressing the dialogue we held in 2015, along importance level to the stakemost important topics raised with customers and employees holders. The matrix provides a by our stakeholders, we were feedback from different market snapshot of the material issues also keen on mainly raising the researches. of high, medium and low imporissues of concern that would be tance in relation to sustainability aligned with our core business The material issues are presented issues identified from an internal and have great impact on our on a graph, with the X-axis and external perspective. The customers and employees. We representing the importance issues located on the top right also went through the feedback level of issues to the business corner of the graph are regarded from the extensive stakeholders’ success, and the Y-axis the as the most substantial. Materiality Matrix The material issues selected employees’ engagement, It is clear that CSR activities reflect our Bank’s attention on measurement of our environaddress a number of social economic, environmental, and mental impact, occupational issues with different targets and social impacts. The issues with health & safety, child labour, objectives. It is worth noting that the highest level of materiality: and suppliers’ environmental the material aspects discussed compliance, customer centricity, assessment, are not currently throughout the report are relevant eco-products & services, of major strategic importance for Fransabank SAL operations, complaints resolution, youth to the Bank or stakeholders whereas, Fransabank Group local financial education and inclusion, and thus will not be a focus for and overseas subsidiaries ethical conduct, sustainable immediate action or extensive activities are not discussed. development, diversity & equal reporting. opportunity, workforce training & Still, adopting a full materiality education, responsible lending, A topic that emerged as being assessment exercise for the first and information security & increasingly important was youth time was interesting. We faced customers’ privacy, are of greatest financial education and inclusion, some challenges in including importance to both organizawhich has recently become more conflicting stakeholders’ views tional success and stakeholders critical to business. Overall, and management thoughts expectations. These topics are stakeholders emphasized the into our prioritization process. a major focus for our Bank’s need for ethical conduct and However, we believe that conobjectives and sustainability transparency in everything we stant stakeholder engagement policies, and are clearly redo. sessions, will help extend the ported in our Corporate Social materiality assessment further Responsibility Report 2016. The Being aware that each stakeas still more needs to be done. issues assigned a medium level holder is touched differently All material issues change over of materiality: digital banking depending on the material issue, time, as do knowledge about services, social investments, we had to draw boundaries for each them, and new issues might remuneration & bonuses, and issue. Boundaries helped identify arise. We will, therefore, review regulations, represent four the issues that have impacts the materiality analysis process topics that the Bank must manage within and outside Fransabank. on a yearly basis. and report on consistently. The issues given the lowest level of materiality: FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 14-15 About the Report Fransabank CSR report, which has been published every year since 2012, is the main tool available for communicating with our stakeholders about the Bank’s efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development through the application of the principles and objectives of Corporate Social Responsibility. The compilation of the CSR Report 2016 takes full consideration of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and focuses on six selected Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our reporting on CSR reflects the requirements set out in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) – a voluntary standard for reporting on sustainability, providing a sound basis for the selection of the mateiral issues covered in this report, for an effective communication with stakeholders. Our 2016 report is produced based on the GRI G4 guidelines – (Core option). It is our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact for the 2016 financial reporting year. All reporting and performance data are limited to information on Fransabank SAL – the parent company of Fransabank Group, unless stated otherwise. Fransabank CSR Report 2016 is not certified by an external certification authority. The report constitutes part of Fransabank’s yearly reports, along with Fransabank Annual Report 2016 which presents detailed information about our financial results and risk management practices. You can find the reports on www.fransabank.com; our corporate responsibility main icon on the website and periodic publications also provide regular updates on our CSR initiatives. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 16-17 Diligent Governance Key highlights 116 Promote, support and strengthen employees Transparency Accountability completed compliance Fairness training sessions Responsibility Incorporate good governance and ethical business practices in decision making Work against corruption via, amongst others, adequate AML policies Provide the footprint for the highest forms of professionalism, ethical behavior and integrity through the Code of Conduct Value the sensitive use and transfer of personal client data, enabling for sufficient data security FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 18-19 For a business to succeed, it needs to be supported by sound governance structures and strong organizational and risk frameworks. Having well established these prerequisites, we, at Fransabank are committed to implement rigorous Corporate Governance practices by maintaining governance structures, policies and processes that best serve the changing needs of our employees, clients, and community while promoting a culture of integrity, diversity and ethical conduct across the Bank. Corporate Governance Framework Fransabank Corporate Fransabank Corporate The Bank’s governance structure Governance framework revolves Governance framework promotes aims to provide an efficient essentially around the Corporate the commitment of the Bank framework for the assignment of Governance Code as adopted by to the highest level of transresponsibility and accountability. the Board of Directors in line with parency, integrity, fairness and It includes the General Assembly the regulatory requirements accountability which helps in of Shareholders; the Board of and international best pracdisseminating a strong goverDirectors, the Chairman, the tices. It also includes a set of nance culture within the Bank by Deputy Chairman, the various governance related policies and setting the ‘tone at the top’. committees, control functions, charters, as well as, a Code of the external auditors, general Conduct and Ethics. and senior management and the business and support functions. Fransabank Corporate Governance Structure The Board of Directors consists Fransabank’s strategy remains In that respect, Fransabank faces in its majority of non-executive to standardize the governance a broad range of risks including members and is supported in practices across its entities and those resulting from its core carrying out its oversight duties to strengthen its governance and activities, mainly customers’ by Board Committees, namely control culture, to ensure that deposit taking, lending and the Corporate Governance the implementation of good running of complex payment and Committee, the Board Risk Corporate Governance is IT systems to support its day-toCommittee, the Audit Committee, embedded at the Group level. day operational activities. the Remuneration Committee and the Anti-Money Laundering/ The risk management frameCombating the Financing of Managing Risk work seeks to ensure that there Terrorism AML/CFT Board is an effective process in place Committee (which was The Board acknowledges that to manage risks across the established in December 2016). one of its primary objectives is to Bank. These risks are managed explicitly enforce the collective through detailed processes that Also in 2016, the Board of oversight and risk governance emphasize the importance of Directors has adopted a policy responsibilities. Key components integrity, maintaining high quality for managing conflicts of interest of risk governance include Risk staff and public accountability. which sets the process to identify Culture, Risk Appetite and their and manage these conflicts that relationship to the Bank’s Risk Fransabank operates in full can arise between the Bank and Capacity (i.e. the absolute risk compliance with all relevant its clients and examines the bearing capacity of the Bank); as local laws and regulations. The rules for dealing with related well as, the overall checks and Bank values its reputation highly parties. balances. as a responsible and ethical operator in the financial industry. General and Senior Management The Bank is charged with carrying execute their responsibilities, out the duties of a commercial supported by specialized bank in the interests of its stakeBusiness Ethics Management Committees, to holders, all the more emphaensure a proper segregation of sized by being one of the largest At Fransabank, we are dediduties and separation of functions, banking groups in the country cated to improve our culture promoting an effective internal and contributing to the financial by building on our values and control framework. stability. adhering to the high expectations of ethical and professional FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 20-21 behavior and standards we set •d  etect suspicious transactions procedures are applied at the for ourselves. In view of that, and process internal suspionset of the relationship with Fransabank allocates great value cious-activity alerts; the customer and renewed at to responsible conduct reflecting every material change in relatthe sound image of the Bank • improve, update, and implement ed data. with all employees receiving internal policies, procedures, and controls; and • Undertake a close monitoring training in various related topics. on accounts’ movements and These include, but are not limited • c reate staff awareness, set a daily executed transactions to to code of conduct, anti-money staff reliability process, and ensure their consistency with laundering, compliance, and provide training. the customers’ net-worth information protection. These policies are put into situation and their economic practice at the front line of our activity reflected in the KYC Preventing Money business, they are continually form. Hence, handling systemLaundering, Financing monitored and updated. generated alerts showing any of Terrorism, deviation between mentioned and Corruption Our measures for customer and actual account activity. Acting as the backbone of the due diligence, reporting, record • Perform a daily screening of Lebanese economy, the bankkeeping, internal controls, risk the customers’ names against ing sector is well-known for its management and communications local watch and sanctions resilience, sound performance, are applied to anticipate illegal lists published by the Special and most importantly its confiactivities and crimes. These Investigation Commission, as dentiality and the trust it derives. measures were opened out by well as, those published by Therefore, we always work on the Law No. 44. Crimes such as international bodies including keeping up with the increasing human trafficking, tax evasion, UN, OFAC, EU, HM Treasury, international regulation laws extortion, bribes, and corruption and Interpol. and restrictions over the financial are listed as illicit doings that • Apply strict control measures sector to consolidate the we report through our AML/CFT on wire transfers prior to Lebanese banking sector’s solid Compliance Department, and processing them to make sure reputation. Fransabank has been managers who suspect such that the payment is not directly updating its policies and proceactivity, as we all share the or indirectly in relation with dures to be aligned with local responsibility of ensuring and sanctioned countries, individuals, and international rules. Hencereporting compliance. entities, goods, vessels and forth, the Bank has been leading ports. its business with the highest Our sanctions program and polethical standards and in full icies for fighting corruption and • Conduct an Enhanced Due compliance with all applicable bribery are in full compliance Diligence (EDD) on high risk anti-money laundering, financing with international standards and customers, such as: of terrorism and corruption laws requirements. We make sure - Politically Exposed Persons and regulations. our employees are rigorously (PEP), meeting the terms of AML/CFT - Off-Shore companies, We follow a wide Anti-Money and FATCA procedures. In view of - Non-Profits Organizations, Laundering and Counter-Financing that, they have to: - Precious stone dealers, of Terrorism policy (AML/CFT) - Used car dealers, •C  onduct a periodic review of supported by our Know Your - Exchange companies, the AML/CFT, sanctions and Customer policy (KYC), which in High cash income professions, FATCA policies and procedures turn commits us to: - Nationals of sanctioned to ensure compliance with the countries, updated related requirements. • fulfil regulations governing - Income directly or indirectly identification, recording, and •M  ake sure that appropriate related to sanctioned countries. archiving; KYC and FATCA due diligence Compliance Trainings Fighting digital fraud and piracy dealing with correspondent in the banking and commercial banks with consistency and Compliance trainings are sectors in Lebanon. proficiency. Being transparent continuously organized for and responsive when exchanging Fransabank employees, to Our required trainings are not complex regulations is critical improve their understanding of limited to Fransabank branches’ for a high quality of service. new and/or updated financial employees (customer service sector, governmental laws and representatives, tellers, deputy regulations. Consequently, the branch managers and branch Valuing the Bank’s Code compliance department has managers), but extend as well of Conduct training modules intended for to cover teams from selected particular areas of responsibility. departments/divisions at the Corporate culture is not only In 2016, 116 employees completed Bank, such as: fostered through top–down compliance training sessions Internal Audit Department leadership; it also requires (from Fransabank SAL, Fransa Retail Banking Division employees at all levels to underInvest Bank SAL – the investment Risk Management Division stand the importance of personal arm of Fransabank and the Loan Recovery Department accountability, risk, and values of Lebanese Leasing Company SAL Security and Business Continuity integrity. Our Code of Business – the leasing arm of Fransabank). Department Conduct and Ethics helps in Corporate Banking Division achieving this culture. We ensure The training modules covered Financial Consumer Protection that employees have the tools topics ranging from: Unit to support our commitment to AML/CFT awareness sessions International Banking Division ethical business practices and FATCA awareness sessions Inspection Department require that they speak up if they The Common Reporting Standard Compliance Department. notice questionable behavior and Regulatory requirements for escalate their concerns if they compliance implementation We value these trainings as they feel it is not being addressed. within banks and financial are essential for the Bank’s institutions professional performance, International sanctions whether for doing business requirements with customers in a clear and Financial crimes detection well-informed manner or for FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 22-23 The main objectives of Fransabank code of conduct are: To establish a common understanding of the standards of behavior expected of all employees, To provide a clear framework within which employees are expected to conduct themselves, To maintain a work environment in which honesty, integrity and respect for fellow employees, and customers/clients constantly reflect in personal behavior and standards of conduct, and To remind employees of what is expected from them as for their appearance and work ethics. In this regard, all employees Protecting the Bank’s and its Customers’ must comply with our Code of Information Conduct and are expected to live our core values. The Code helps employees in their daily decision One of Fransabank’s highest priorities is to protect the confidentiality, making in situations that involve integrity, and availability of customer data and the Bank’s information confidential or inside information assets. or conflicts of interest. It helps employees better understand Fransabank’s strategy with respect to security is to always upgrade their responsibility to make the its security infrastructure with the evolving technology. This provides right ethical choices, promptly assurance to all stakeholders (specifically the customers) that the data report actual or suspected and services are duly protected and constantly available. misconduct and know to whom concerns should be reported. In line with this strategy, and in addition to the multitude of security layers already implemented as appliances or software, (e.g. the data Our Code of Conduct reinforces leakage protection, the end point security, firewalls, IDS, IPS…) a multithe message that adherence to tude of control and monitoring systems are now in the scrutiny pipeline, our core values and principles is namely a Security Incident and Event Management solution, a Business every employee’s responsibility Continuity Management System, a Vulnerability Management tool, an and that we each have an Auditing tool and Sandboxing Solution. obligation to: • Apply the values and principles As far as the readiness of the current Business Continuity Site, during expressed in our Code in 2017 the site will be covering all Fransabank services, even those not everything we do and where we classified as critical in the objective to better serve customers and to operate. ensure seamless shifting of the services from the Head office to the • C onduct business in a Disaster Recovery Site. transparent, prudent and dependable manner. Investment is also done on the security staff members, where employees • Take responsibility and hold are always encouraged to stay up to date and to provide evidence of each other accountable. that by gaining specialized certifications in the field of Security and • R aise concerns and ask Governance (e.g. CISM, CGEIT and CRISC). questions. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 24-25 Accessible Finance Key highlights Create economic, social and environmental value by We have invested through providing products and services in a profitable manner our microfinancing loans around Serve all segments of the population, so as to ensure USD 34.1 million financial inclusion in society granted to 17,031 beneficiaries Promote financial inclusion and eradicate poverty at end of 2016 through our microcredits Support SMEs in Lebanon through a diversified portfolio In 2016 of products and services at advantageous rates As end of 2016, an outstanding amount of USD 628.02 USD 5.97 million was invested in SME financing million had been disbursed for Drive local economic growth, entrepreneurship and jobs. microcredits financing In 2016, Fransabank participated in two additional equity funds under the Central Bank of Lebanon Circular 331 Ensure well-developed accessibility channels and 40% proximity banking close at hand reaching low-populated and economically disadvantaged areas of our beneficiaries were females Provide advice that meets the needs of customers and promote products and services that are appropriate to their personal circumstances and risk profile Provide clear and transparent information on products and services and other terms and conditions of use 460 jobs were created Mystery Shopping research project was prolonged to monitor the Bank’s standing and re-assess the customer service quality 5,096 jobs were sustained Inform and communicate with customers, deal with complaints quickly and efficiently 42.5% Advertise responsibly and ensure the visibility of information on products and services both in the branches and on internet sites of the beneficiaries are between the ages of 18 to 35 Be transparent towards all stakeholders, including our customers, in communications and reporting about our impact on society 41.48% of the beneficiaries derived from the commerce sector FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 26-27 Economic development is always at the forefront of national advancement. Yet, supporting a responsible and sustainable growth is a necessity for the achievement of valuable long-term objectives. Therefore, at Fransabank, we believe that pulling off Lebanon’s real growth requires new concepts and partnerships with a reinforced commitment to helping societies produce more inclusive economic growth. Working through our lending Lending Responsibly Financial Inclusion capacity, we aim to improve the main pillars of Lebanon’s Fransabank considers itself Financial inclusion is a vital economy including its infraresponsible for providing transaspect to generate balanced structure, services and innovative parent credit facilities in an era economic growth, as it helps technologies, as well as, key in which banks are increasingly people start and expand a busibusinesses. Of course, we have expected to share accountability ness, which in its turn reduces to deal with several challenges for customers’ use of funds. That poverty and inequality. In view to go forward, such as: is why we integrate responsibility of that, financial inclusion is measures in our lending practices essential to reach higher socie• B roadening access to financial and offer proactive advices. tal goals generating resources services and improving the which would be accessible to all. understanding of their appro• F or private individuals, we priate uses. confer loans on the basis of a Yet, access is exactly what • Expanding further microfinance professional credit assessment Fransabank works on providing opportunities across Lebanon. of the person’s needs and these small businesses with. • Continuing to improve opporfinancial situation. It is in the We do not wait for them to walk tunities for small businesses interest of both the customer through Fransabank doors to to create jobs. a  nd the Bank that credit achieve their potential; however, • C ontinuing to support facilities are granted only when we personally reach them through affordable homeownership in the customer understands the our microcredit program in difficult economic climates. associated obligations and partnership with Vitas – one the • Promoting responsible use of risks. largest microfinance institutions credit cards as a tool to improve • F or business customers, we in Lebanon, our wide presence households’ finances. not only assess the customer’s across Lebanon, and our onneeds and repayment ability the-move team. Equipping these Our core business works on but also consider the purpose underserved businesses with ensuring loans and credit for which the funds will be the resources to get ahead can facilities approved on the basis of used and assess possible be one of the greatest switches a professional credit assessment. Environmental, Social and for creating national economic We include environmental, social Ethical (ESE) risks. progress. and governance features in advancing credits; while making For us, responsible lending Microfinance sure our customers realize the means ensuring a good customer repercussions of taking out loans. experience and a long-lasting With our microfinance funds, we In parallel, our investments financial partnership based on have extended an estimated of are aligned with international mutual understanding and trust. 17,031 loans to micro entrepreprinciples such as human rights, Accordingly, our team of experts neurs with a total outstanding labour rights, and environment is well trained to evaluate, assess amount of USD 34.1 million protection. and support our customers in since 2007 till end of year 2016, their projects while offering delivering social and economic them practical assistance. value to the beneficiaries and their communities. Businesses that benefit from Microcredit highpoints over the past three years Fransabank microcredit program (2014-2016) covers several key commerce ranging from restaurants, bakeries, Total number of Total amount of barbershops, tailors, farmers, microcredit beneficiaries microcredit (million of USD) among others. By boosting the vivacity of some regions, we 4,000 7 give a new lease of life to mar3,500 3,564 6 3,338 5.97 ginalized ones; and so inclusive 3,000 5 5.37 economies have the contagious 2,500 4 power to prosper. We are also 2,000 3 tailoring solutions to meet the 1,500 1,776 2 2.50 needs of women and minority 1,000 1 -owned businesses, all with 500 the aim of generating inclusive 0 2014 2015 2016 0 2014 2015 2016 growth in the communities where we live and work. Gender distribution In 2016, the total number of microcredit beneficiaries reached 65% 35% 63% 37% 60% 40% 3,564 clients. Simultaneously, the outstanding amount of microcredits reached around the 2014 2015 2016 c/v of USD 5.97 million in 2016 Amount disbursed per age brackets (USD) compared with around USD 5.37 million in 2015; a year-on-year AGE 2014 2015 2016 increase of almost 11.17%. Between 18 to 35 USD 1,060,150 USD 2,292,012 USD 2,404,429 Between 36 to 50 USD 967,585 USD 2,098,109 USD 2,283,127 Above 50 USD 421,960 USD 987,004 USD 1,281,605 Percentage of beneficiaries per age brackets AGE 2014 2015 2016 Between 18 to 35 43.3% 45.6% 42.5% Between 36 to 50 39.5% 36.6% 37.5% Above 50 17.2% 17.8% 20.0% The outstanding amount of microcredits Number of jobs created reached around the 2014 2015 2016 c/v of USD 5.97 266* 2,278** 460* million *The number of jobs was calculated based on data gathered from the clients. **The number of jobs was estimated based on the loan type and amount financed. in 2016 Number of jobs sustained 2014 2015 2016 N/A 1,789 5,096 Non-performing loan ratio AGE 2014 2015 2016 PAR > 90 days 1.81% 1.17% 2.62% PAR > 180 days N/A 0.44% 1.35% FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 28-29 Microcredit beneficiaries’ sectors distribution 3.76% 1.14% 43.30% 7.03% 11.21% In December 2016, Fransabank 2014 sustained its commitment to 11.88% stimulate economic growth by launching a joint project in collaboration with Michel Issa 21.68% Foundation and Vitas, to shed 2.85% 0.06% light on the microloans programs, 3.92% 41.04% and support local micro busi13.30% nesses in Jbeil area, particularly Established in 1999, Vitas is the first remote areas and villages in the region, which suffer from microfinance institution to receive a 2015 displacement. license from the Central Bank of Lebanon. Vitas is a pioneering 15.58% The program’s main target is the microcredit institution in Lebanon with people of Jbeil region and those regional and international outreach. Its 23.25% with simple crafts whose mission is to provide financial support circumstances may not allow to families with limited income with the 2.94% 0.13% 4.05% them to develop their careers purpose of assisting them to become 41.48% and trades, or in some cases 14.00% self-sustainable. The majority of Vitas can’t even bear the burdens of clients are located in rural areas. It debt and interest repayment. In focuses on women, youth, and 2016 this initiative, Fransabank has rural-based businesses. Vitas became taken it upon itself to pay interest 14.24% of about 30 loans and the part of the Vitas Group in 2011, a global payment of the value of about network of microfinance institutions 23.16% 20 loans, a gift to the borrowers operating in Lebanon, Jordan, and Commerce Services Production of the sons of Jbeil. Romania, among others. Contracting & Buildings Agriculture Transportation Home Improvement Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) We actively support Financing and believe in: According to a research study conducted by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) in 2013, SMEs collectively represent almost 97% of the total formal enterprises in Lebanon and employ more than 51% of the working population. Fransabank The total outstanding continues to prioritize SMEs, in amount of SME loans recognition of their importance reached more than to financial inclusion and as a cornerstone for sustainable USD 628.02 economic growth. Not only that, million they are playing a key role in the as end of year 2016 creation of new employment opportunities in Lebanon; and therefore offering a wide array of At the core, helping people get tailor-made products and services on the path to financial stability, to SMEs at very competitive and move up the economic terms and conditions. ladder, requires connecting the dots. Apart from providing To support new and established financial facilities and strategic small and medium-sized insights, Fransabank organizes enterprises in reaching their seminars and sector based potential, Fransabank provides information meetings in order the necessary expertise through to raise its customers’ level of various initiatives and suitable knowledge and to bolster their solutions that fit their needs. By understanding of the different absorbing risks, providing advice SME products and services. and facilitating access to capital These annual SME workshops and financing, the Bank helps and trainings are provided to companies achieve their ambitions. existing and potential clients Having financial confidence across Lebanon. Adequate can help SMEs focus on what access to education and training matters most – commercializing and building the skills that are in their business ideas and innovating demand, are key to our mission’s their business model so that success and to the socio-economic they stay accustomed to their impacts we aim to create. customers’ expectations. Micro and SME Selection Criteria as per the Central Bank of Lebanon: A simple approach to define Micro and SMEs is based on annual turnover and number of employees. FROM AN ANNUAL TURNOVER PERSPECTIVE FROM AN EMPLOYEE COUNT PERSPECTIVE Micro LBP 500 million 10 Small LBP 5 billion 50 Medium LBP 25 billion 100 FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 30-31 Innovative Entrepreneurship At Fransabank, we are not • Broadgate Y Ventures Partners is bringing a new dimension only responsible for delivering aims to target the current gap over the existing similar funds financial facilities through credit in the Lebanese eco-system in that its strategy will also lines; we are also expected by targeting seed and early focus on importing the techto participate through direct stages startups in Lebanon nological know-how, property investments in ready-to-scale and abroad. It is the first and of successful foreign startstart-ups. Owing to the Central sole fund so far to combine ups (mainly European). This Bank of Lebanon Circular 331, commitments from banks is done through establishing whereby Lebanese banks are under the Central Bank of subsidiaries in Lebanon which encouraged to invest in innovative Lebanon Circular 331 and main activity would be to sell start-ups in the Lebanese direct equity from private the product in the Middle East knowledge economy. Thus, local investors. The Fund will target & Gulf region and grow the banks are entrusted with a portfolio of 40 to 45 highparent company and contribute allocating equity funding to its potential Lebanese startups to its value creation. Cedar most efficient use by investing in: and 12 to 15 later stage foreign Mundi Fund will mainly focus creative young entrepreneurs companies. The Fund’s multi on companies in the food, with innovative ideas, market exposure, and ability to tap travel & hospitality, and ready-to-scale start-ups, a broader market potential could finance sector. Fransabank and accelerators, offer competitive advantage Fransa Invest Bank committed incubators, over the competition in accessing USD 3,500,000 and USD 500,000 venture capital funds with solid a larger pool of investments. respectively out of total fund management team. The aforementioned can help size of USD 40,000,000. build local talent, develop the Fransabank puts forward Lebanese economy and create programs that support early much needed job opportunities. stage, innovative, and impact Fransabank and Fransa Invest -driven businesses that drive Bank (the investment arm of positive change in society. We Fransabank) committed give these businesses access USD 2,000,000 and USD 300,000 to what they need to get off the r espectively out of total fund ground and reach their next level size of USD 46,000,000. where young entrepreneurs benefit from guidance, strategic •C  edar Mundi Fund objectives mentorship, entrepreneurshipare to promote the Lebanese focused business training, and economy, create jobs, grow access to networks of partners the portfolio companies, and and mentors. In view of that, eventually contribute (to the 2016 witnessed additional extent possible) to the development participations in equity funds of the Beirut Stock Exchange. under Circular 331: Nevertheless, Cedar Mundi Fund As for our previous equity Fransabank is also a partner and • B erytech Fund I successfully participations, they went through shareholder in Berytech whose exited four companies for a total some updates in 2016: purpose is to nurture economic value of USD 1,846,817. The growth through providing Fund empowered start-ups • I mpact Fund by Middle East incubation, support and hosting through pioneering initiatives, Venture Partners (MEVP) which opportunities to the largest e.g. Berytech Digital Park was established in 2014, with a possible number of project Beirut which aimed to create a total size of USD 70 million, holders as well as developing tech-hub for the digital industry invested circa USD 11.5 million enterprises working in the fields in Lebanon and the region. in companies, mainly in the of technology, multimedia and sectors of online payments, health. In 2016, Berytech carried And so, Fransabank, amongst education, technology, gaming, on with its Funds I & II along other Lebanese banks, was keen and online publishing. The these lines: to participate in Banque du Liban Impact Fund mainly focuses on Accelerate 2016 conference, consumer technology products • B erytech Fund II invested Lebanon’s third annual interand services, consumer retail USD 9 million mainly in the national start-ups conference. products and services and sector of technology and Confident in its capabilities to enterprise software. Fransabank online banking. The Fund accommodate financial tools in and Fransa Invest Bank had invests in early and formative support of forward-looking committed USD 5,000,000 and stage start-ups with proven entrepreneurs, and with the aim USD 500,000, respectively. innovation levels and techto create a favorable environment nology disruptions in many that would serve the growing • L  eap Ventures invests in sectors covering the Information growth stage, well established needs of start-ups. and Communication Technologies companies that are ready to (ICT) sector as well as other scale. In 2016, it invested circa knowledge based and creative USD 30 million in companies, industries (such as energy, inter alia, in the field of creative and fashion design). renewable energies, fintech, Fransabank had committed online retail, education, and USD 3,000,000 out of a total cyber security. Fransabank fund size of USD 51,500,000. and Fransa Invest Bank had committed USD 6,000,000 and USD 1,000,000, respectively, out of a total fund size of USD 71,000,000. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 32-33 Accessible Homeownership Home is the essence of stability and security. Therefore, we believe that our customers’ ability to buying a house of their own is important for building healthy communities. Often, people worry about applying for a housing loan due to the large amount they would be borrowing over a long period of time. However, we are keen on reviewing, on a yearly basis, our housing loan programs to put in possible improvements to offer a well-studied product. This would help customers acquire a house while still settling their monthly payments in a smooth manner. Granting You a Housewarming Gift! In view of that, the Bank launched, a housing loan campaign, in or service. They are trained to 2016, promoting a cashback of consistently communicate and 1% from the loan amount for the interact with customers, setting new housing loans approved clear expectations, and explainapplicants; 93 Fransabank ing fees and costs that are part clients with a net loan amount of of the origination process. At more than c/v of USD 15 million Fransabank, we focus on achieving benefited from this promotional and maintaining excellence in campaign. key customer experience drivers, such as closing on time and For homeowners who are avoiding multiple requests for struggling to make their loan documents. payments, we intervene as early as possible. While our employees have to support customers who are having difficulties making loan payments, we also provide counseling and arrange for any available option to put the client At year-end 2016, back on track with the due payments. the total outstanding amount for home Yet, we follow a strict and purchases, refinance conscientious evaluation for each and home improvement application to avoid overloading loans reached people with grants they cannot the c/v of afford. Our employees must be sure that clients understand the characteristics, functions and USD 767.46 risks inherent to each product million Putting Clients First Fostering a culture based on Educating clients: It is of major sure all the required fields and clients’ needs rather than an importance to us to educate our figures in the form to be signed approach that focuses on products customers about their rights and are correct and complete… and profits is a prerequisite for duties. In view of that, the client pursuing equally valuable client has the right to: Being approachable: With the relationships. As a result, we •h  ave full information of the purpose of being approachable believe that listening to our terms, conditions, and details to the clients willing to contact customers, identifying their needs of the product or service sold, us or file a complaint, several and addressing areas where they • r equest ample explanations to means are made accessible; are not satisfied are amongst be sure that he/she has underthrough our email that is displayed the cornerstone of Fransabank’s stood them and can abide by on all our customer facing customer service experience and them, channels, call center where our a substantial element in the • obtain a clear, ample and simplified customer service representatives Bank’s sustainable progress. explanation about different risk are available to answer any These unstinting efforts contribute levels of any financial product inquiry or channel them to towards further enhancing the from the concerned employee, concerned personnel, complaint level of customer satisfaction. •k  now the actual cost of the boxes in all our branches. Hence, product or service, including customers are granted the Fransabank has promoted the actual insurance cost and possibility to raise their concerns, several notions that lead to open the computational method of and the chance to inquire about communication with clients as the lending or deposit interest any needed clarification per the Central Bank of Lebanon rate, concerning any of our products Circular 134 on “The Principles •o  btain, for each product or or services. Moreover, they of Banking and Financial Operaservice, a periodic detailed can submit a claim about any tions with Customers”: statement of account, service or product, and request • r efuse to sign a blank or an explanation on the claim incomplete form and make submission procedure, the time FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 34-35 limit needed to be notified of the standings, needs, expectations, claim outcome, and the mechaopinions, values, and to identify nism applied to submit the claim any room for improvement. Thus, to other authorities whenever we mandate an independent the customer is not convinced of marketing research firm to send the claim outcome. mystery shoppers to review our service standards and to benchTransparency is a priority at mark it with the one of selected Fransabank. We make sure competitive banks. clients have full access to the information they want. We seek In this respect, a Mystery Shopper to disclose full information about research project was re-launched our products and services by in 2016, to monitor the Bank’s revealing thorough details related standing and re-assess the to their financial and operational customer service quality as aspects. Consequently, sharing compared to the competition. this information with our cusThrough this exercise, an tomers will assist them in taking appraisal of the branches’ service the convenient decisions when performance and adherence to acquiring one of our products, high standards was completed out by assessing the risk associated of real life customer experiences to it. which in turn helped identify best practices/need gaps. The project Committing to a loan is a critical covered specific criteria as per decision that one needs to make, the branches exterior, interior, taking into consideration all the customer service officers’ relevant features of the product in appearance, behaviours and order to evaluate the risk taken. interaction, in addition to a Therefore, assuring suitability of telebanking overall evaluation. the product or service purchased Fransabank’s 74 branches were with the customers’ request, visited twice per month, during profile and perception of the peak and off-peak periods likely financial risks associated providing valuable insights into to the lent amount is our main the quality of our services and concern. compliance with our standards of excellence; with more than 200 visits to competitive local banks Mystery Shopping branches. While the project’s outcomes indicated increasing Whether we believe that our levels of satisfaction across all products are well-studied and of our customers’ service areas; our service is of grade A is not this self-assessment exercise enough. We have to evaluate also proved to be a necessity periodically our customer exespecially in a highly competitive perience to monitor and qualify market that increasingly relies it. Accordingly, we carry out on better services and higher extensive researches to keep customers’ contentment. up with our customers’ underFRANSABANK TOUCHPOINTS Accessibility Fransabank has been enriching Today, keeping in touch with its clienteles experience by Branches customers has been taking supporting the Lebanese public a different approach with the sector in the establishment of an & ATMs changing social behavior. We E-Government, reducing thererecognize that our digital reach fore administrative and financial will become as important as bureaucracy and alleviating its E-Banking our physical reach, and we are burden and repercussion on the adapting our delivery model Lebanese citizens. These first to these future requirements. e-payment services benefits However, while the number of provide to taxpayers, residents customers shifting to digital and expatriates, to settle their solutions is growing, some subscription fees or taxes all Mobile & customers are still not confident week long including Sundays Tablet enough to interact for financial and holidays, using their plastic Application purposes with a computer or cards, in a most easy and secure smartphone. So, it is important way. Accordingly, Fransabank for us, as a Bank, to ensure credit cardholders can pay their 24/7 a liable and soft transition to taxes through an E-Taxation future financial services and to system in collaboration with the Call take into account the conLebanese Ministry of Finance, Center sequences of a more digital and can also pay their water business model. subscription fees online. The same applies for the settlement Mobile Per se, Fransabank offers a of subscription fees for the variety of online banking solumembers of the Syndicate of Payment tions such as the e-banking, Engineers and Architects in mobile banking, and the mobile Beirut. payment solution. These services enable customers to manage SMS basic banking transactions Alerts without assistance through a Likewise, we are also engaging continuous experience across all customers through social media; touchpoints that are accessible, real-time updates allow us to easy to use, and secure. These keep our customers informed of services add up to Fransabank significant events or updates to E-Mail Group’s 124 branches spread our services. We had a significant from Halba in the North of increase in social media Lebanon to Naqoura in the engagement; Facebook fans South, maintaining our first rank have grown by almost 133%, as the largest branch network Instagram followers increased by Social in Lebanon, along with the 112 almost 118%, and Twitter followers Media ATMs installed at all our branches rose by almost 41%. Channels and some strategic off-premise locations. Mail FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 36-37 Connecting with via networking events, nurture Therefore, Fransabank suppliers’ the Lebanese the next generation of Lebanese course of action encloses guideDiaspora through finance executives through lines for promoting responsible Businesses education, mentoring and and transparent procurement coaching, and promote economic practices. Detailed requirements Known of its larger than growth and job creation both for for each product type are set residents diaspora, Lebanon’s Lebanese residents and expaforth in contracts with individual economy largely depends on triates. suppliers. Recently, the Bank remittances coming from its included a new article in its migrated population. As a Bank, supplier contracts requesting we do measure the importance Supply Chain suppliers of the cleaning service of keeping up with Lebanese Management to comply fully with the United emigrants and appreciate their Nations Global Compact (UNGC) bond and concern with their As a financial institution, we may humanitarian principles. fatherland. In view of that, we do focus the most on our client support the Lebanese Interrelations; yet, in the rear of our national Finance Executives operations we have to secure (LIFE), a worldwide membera procurement network that ship organization of Lebanese fits within our CSR believes. As financiers based in the diaspora, Fransabank meets the needs of through our financial support of its branch network and departUSD 50,000 for the year 2016. ments from local suppliers, we LIFE’s main objective consists depend on an extensive supply of enabling Lebanese finance chain, with a large number of executives worldwide to connect suppliers providing goods and services to support our business. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 38-39 Fostering a Diverse Workplace Key highlights Create decent work in an-inclusive environment Provide good working conditions for all our employees in all the regions in which they operate Provide employees with the opportunity to achieve a good work-life balance 46% of employees are women Fransabank 2016 Development Programs targeted 8% of the Board of Directors 233 employees for the are women Talent Management program 439 employees for the Polyvalence Enhancement program 37.3% of senior management position are women 398 employees for the 45.4% Potentials Development program 177 employees for the of middle management Succession Planning program position are women Respect and protect human rights and labour standards 229 students were welcomed in our 2016 Promote training Internship Summer Program and life-long learning opportunities in order to facilitate career advancement 475 employees enrolled in Partner in Life Program, contributing to a total amount of USD 306,132 at 1,013 employees end of year 2016 received specialized trainings in 2016; being 59.1% of the workforce. An average of 659 employees are enrolled in the Amicale Club, an increase of 15.6% from the year 2015 94.7 hours of training per employee FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 40-41 Attracting and retaining a competent and devoted workforce is an organization’s guarantee of its sustainability and efficient growth. Accordingly, we, at Fransabank, are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive workplace in which employees are empowered and engaged. We view equality of opportunity and continuous learning and development as fundamental values and driving forces for the Bank’s corporate culture. Diversity and Inclusion We have a great responsibility in our people are building winning growth rate and 3.44% turnover promoting diversity among our careers and achieving their rate – among the lowest in the workforce. Believing our employees professional, personal and sector. While, we welcomed 105 reflect the communities where we financial goals. new comers at Fransabank; 40% live and work, we are keen on of them were women. With new attracting diverse backgrounds In 2016, our workforce gender blood joining our workforce, it and experiences to promote segmentation was unchanged resulted with an average personnel further social inclusion which is as compared to the previous age of 37.1 years old compared inevitably a strong foundation. year with an almost equal share to 38.2 in 2015, and the percentage We invest in our people – the among men and women employof university degree holders talent of tomorrow – through ment, 54% being males and rising by 3.3% to reach 69.3% leadership and development, 46% females. Fransabank staff in 2016. This increase resulted engagement and well-being, population counted among its from the continuous education diversity and inclusion. In turn, ranks 1,712 staff, with a 1.90% policy implemented by the Bank. Fransabank employees’ composition by gender and seniority YEARS OF EXPERIENCE MALE FEMALE TOTAL PERCENTAGE 0 – 10 464 426 890 52% 11 20 199 169 368 21% 21 30 182 141 323 19% Above 30 84 47 131 8% Total 929 783 1,712 100% Fransabank number and Fransabank number of new hires by gender and by age group percentage of new hires by gender AGE MALE FEMALE TOTAL NBR OF NEW GENDER % HIRES 20 – 30 38 32 70 31 – 40 9 4 13 Male 63 60% 41 – 50 5 2 7 Female 42 40% 51 60 3 1 4 Above 60 8 3 11 Total 63 42 105 Women employees are active Senior management positions at Fransabank include: head/deputy of members of the Bank holding division, head/deputy head of department, and regional manager. 28 several key positions. Fransabank women (37.3%) employed at Fransabank are occupying senior positions governance body is composed out of a total population of 75 senior managers. of 12 members, with an 8% of female participation. Fransabank total number of women in senior management position according to their age group distribution Fransabank Board of Directors members by AGE <30 30-50 >50 gender Women in Senior Management 0 17 11 Positions MALE FEMALE Board of As for middle management positions at Fransabank, they include: 92% 8% head/deputy of section, branch manager, deputy branch manager. Directors 45.4% of the positions are held by women out of a total population of 255 middle managers. Fransabank total number of women in middle management position and their age group distribution AGE <30 30-50 >50 Women in Middle Management 0 84 32 Positions Strengthening the allegiance of women in the workplace, the Bank introduced a special working hours schedule for mothers of children aged 12 years old and below; they were granted a leave permission an hour earlier as compared to the normal schedule. We believe that women are multitaskers in our society and deserve our gratitude for the load of achievements they do to provide the best quality of life for their families. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO RETURNED WHO TOOK PARENTAL LEAVE TO WORK AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE RETURN TO WORK RATE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 43 48 42 45 97.6% 93.7% Freedom of association is another important human rights issue. Fransabank is ruled by the Collective Labour Agreement. All employees are enrolled in the National Social Security Fund, and are endowed for fair compensation, benefits and working conditions. Fransabank employees distribution by contract type CONTRACTUAL FULL-TIME COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE FRANSABANK CONTRACTUAL 33 8 896 775 100% 0% FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 42-43 Learning and Development Employees retention and devotion also focus on enabling employees In addition, we place increasing to their company is inevitably to build skills through internal importance on managing and linked to the career path, mobility, and we place a priority on developing employee perfordevelopment, and opportunities filling open roles from within. mance holistically, regularly they are granted. We believe that At the same time, our talent giving feedback, and taking employees have different management and potentials appropriate actions. For instance, experiences and learning development programs ensure all talent development programs approaches and accordingly a consistent, enterprise-wide have a strong culture comporequire personalized development approach to selecting, developing nent as part of their curriculum. methods. To help employees and promoting a diverse set of When employees are being stand out, we provide professional leaders who inspire change and considered for promotion, it development programs, tools, and engage our people to realize is now standard for managers courses dedicated to specific lines their full potential. to assess how candidates of businesses across the Bank. demonstrate the values and In 2016, employees Development beliefs in their daily business. We seek to build the capabilities Program, effectively focused on: of managers and staff in order to Promoting 63 individuals in help them develop both probranches and departments fessionally and personally and management. E-Learning a Knowledge to position the Bank for future Rotating 398 employees, all as Improvement Tool success. Talent and development part of Potentials Development. A new E-learning process was actions have three main Recognizing 233 staff as made accessible to our employees concerns: building leadership Talents to pursue a fast-track through a shared folder. capabilities, nurturing an program in 2017 and 2018. Fransabank E-Learning process enables employees to easily environment that supports Guaranteeing contingency access clear and straight-forward sustainable performance, and planning for 439 staff members presentations on several topics promoting continual professional through the Polyvalence program. such as: AML, documentary and personal development for all credits, MS Office, and exams Accordingly, the total number of employees. The Bank’s polyvalence samples related to the Lebanese employees trained in 2016 reached and succession programs are Financial Regulations. 1,013 employees; being 59.1% of well-studied to provide employees’ the Bank’s population with a total with the abilities to: improve their of 162,149 hours of training. On an multitasking skills, and prepare average, each employee received them to take responsibility of 94.7 hours of training. key positions with the Bank. We Processing Within our support to employees’ and have them understand the Remunerations children schooling fees, 1,296 banking and finance world. Our children benefited from this internship program are designed While we work on helping supporrom this support and the for senior and junior students employees grow in their roles total amount invested reached majoring in banking and finance, to better serve our customers, over USD 3 million in 2016. economics, or other business we also make sure they are related fields, and last for about valued and rewarded for their Of course, these initiatives are a eight weeks with practical expeachievements. We acknowledge reflection of our commitment to rience at Fransabank branches the importance of remuneration the protection and wider promotion and/or departments. In view of to preserve our employees’ of human rights. We make every that, we welcomed 229 interns in motivation and interest. The effort to ensure that all employees 2016, an increase of 6% from the annual evaluation of employees’ are treated with fairness, dignity previous year. performance provides the means and respect in the workplace. for determining and directly Our commitment to human linking merit and bonus to both rights is embedded in the culture Integrating individual and team achieveand values that define our Bank. Employees ments and productivity. It is based on abilities, competencies, Social Engagement and yearly objectives. Creating Tomorrow’s Leaders Being a good corporate citizen includes giving employees Employee Health and Onboarding is an important part opportunities to engage in Well-Being in the hiring process or even in volunteer work. While corporate transition phases. Introducing volunteerism provides great Having invigorated our employees’ recruits to their new team in a benefits to the community; it career progress, we also invest smooth manner and connecting also generates business value in programs and policies to help them to the tools they need to which in return leads to improved ensure the health, safety and succeed are very important to employee engagement. In view of well-being of our employees and the Bank as it is the foundation that, Fransabank employees have their families. This commitment of a fruitful career. always endorsed opportunities is closely aligned with the Bank’s to contribute to their social goals of sustaining an engaged, In order to build the next generation surroundings whether through high-performance work culture of leaders, Fransabank is present donations or personal engagement. and offering a wide range of on a yearly basis at different In 2016, our employees took part competitive benefits that are job fairs with staff dedicated to in two volunteering activities: important to our people. The recruiting and retaining young benefits also include, but are talents. • 15 Fransabank employees not limited to; transportation participated in a one-day allowance, representation We also connected college volunteering at Himaya allowance, family allowances, students to opportunities in Resilience Center in Broumana preferential loans, college tuition the banking sector through our a Lebanese NGO that promotes fees for employees’ children, a internship program. By offering awareness for the protection of special 50% discount for tuition them the possibility to experience innocent children from sexual, fees at the Lebanese American real world employment, students physical, and verbal abuse. University (LAU), cost of living could better shape their education The one day event consisted of adjustment, medical coverage, with the right skills, helping organizing games and compewedding gift, amongst others. them realize their full potential titions for 18 children, followed by an enjoyable lunch. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 44-45 • On the occasion of International Apple Day, 42 Fransabank employees with their families and friends teamed up and enjoyed fun times picking apples at Akoura, North Lebanon, to support apple farmers in Lebanon. They also shared some quality time, having a tasty lunch at Guita guesthouse – a small family run farm offering natural eco-friendly food, and promoting rural development and tourism. Fransabank employees have also since 2005 been contributing, on a voluntary basis, to the treatment of children struggling with cancer. This individual commitment to make a difference on the social To liven the social lives of the “Partner in Life Employee level. With the 50 new adherents, Fransabank employees, tickets Giving Program” with the Children the CCCL received around to concerts, theater, dinners, Cancer Center of Lebanon USD 40,605 in 2016, resulting social activities and invitations (CCCL) comes out from the in the collection of USD 306,132 for cultural and sports events of employee’s own sense of responfrom 475 Fransabank’s employees which the Bank is a corporate sibility and his/her wish to help at end of year 2016. sponsor, are offered to employees. In addition, Fransabank employees A Break from Work receive special deals from sports centers, shops, and diet centers, Fransabank Amicale Club has among others. been providing since its inception recreational activities for Fransabank Amicale members the Bank’s staff. We believe that increased by 15.6% from end of taking a break from work and year 2015, reaching 659 members making the time to relax, as end of December 2016. socialize and generate friendship bonds among colleagues would Likewise, the Bank’s management help employees refresh and strongly supports sports activities surpass the stress environment among its employees and and routine. The Club is managed competitive banks; believing in the by a Committee, which includes team bond it creates. As a result, nine members covering all the and for the second year in a row, Lebanese regions in conformity with Fransabank Blue Knights our branch network. A yearly Basketball team succeeded budget is allocated for the Club’s to make it to the final but this activities and is spent on activities time with a trophy in hand. undertaken throughout the year Fransabank Basketball Team including an annual trip, nature was crowned Champions of the outings, socials events, banqueting… Banks Basketball League 2016. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 46-47 Environmental Engagement Key highlights Promote products and services that respect social, environmental and sustainable development criteria Stand by an Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) to help clients manage risk Chairman associated with the impact of their businesses Mr. Adnan Kassar, on the environment was selected to represent Consistently share best practices on the SDG 13 Climate implementation of energy efficiency to selected Action sectors of the economy by Businessworthy.org Fransabank was recognized as a “replicable” success story that IFC will now recommend as best practice in the Conference of Parties (COP22) 4 MoUs were signed to promote greener and sustainable environment in Lebanon with: IPT petrol stations and Phoenix Energy/Indevco Group IPT Gas Stations -T  he Lebanese American University (LAU) -T  he Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Agriculture of Tripoli and North Lebanon and Phoenix Energy Fransabank The E-Eco Solutions for their Green School total number of Certification Program Sustainable Energy Finance (SEF) eligible projects, Green Recognitions & Awards is The Energy Ambassador of the Year 2016 was granted to Fransabank Chairman, Mr. Adnan Kassar, 170 as an acknowledgement to the efforts exerted by (From 2014 till March 2017) Fransabank to finance energy projects and create Total general awareness in Lebanon SEF eligible projects reached The Energy Awareness Award – the category of Pioneers of Sustainability was granted to Fransabank for the launch of its Eco-Business loans USD 104.5 million FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 48-49 The world is challenged by the potential impacts of climate change, resource scarcity, ecosystem degradation, rapid population growth, and urbanization. These problems endanger well-being, hinder community progress and threaten global prosperity. Accordingly, the pace of investment in renewable and efficient energy technologies, has significantly increased over the past few years as the cost of technologies falls and efficiency improves. According to a study on the that supports a low-carbon economic costs of climate change economy, hence providing to Lebanon by the Ministry of through the core business of the At Fransabank, we are aware environment and the United Bank Sustainable Energy that what we finance can have Nations Development Programme Financing (SEF), Eco-Business environmental and social impacts (UNDP), economic damage from loans and personal eco-friendly and so we incorporate these climate change on Lebanon loans, taking the environment and risks into our financing decisions. could reach more than USD 80 climate change into consideration We are tackling these issues with billion in 2040, if the world does in our products, services and activities in three areas: not implement quick and serious business conduct. We work closely measures to reduce green-house with clients to help them meet 1. Environmental Finance: gas emissions (GHG). international standards and Advising on and financing projects mitigate risks ensuring that many focused on environmental and Believing that the financial sector of our clients’ practices are bestclimate change solutions. can help limit climate change in-class, as we share experiences through a financial infrastructure and learn from each other. 2. Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS): Helping our clients understand Fransabank Sustainable Energy Finance aims to cover: and manage risk associated with • More efficient use of limited resources, via Energy Efficiency (EE) and/or the impact of their businesses Cleaner Production (CP). on the environment and • Generation of clean/ renewable energy: Hydropower, wind, solar including communities. photovoltaic, biomass, geothermal, etc. 3. Operations and Supply Chain: Through our commitment, we have a real opportunity to affect the Managing our own operations climate agenda by the investments we make and the Eco-Business and supply chain to minimize credits we grant. Accordingly: our direct environmental impact, reduce costs and demonstrate • We strive to incorporate concern for the climate and environment in best practices. our products and services, and seek to conduct our business in a way that minimizes our footprint. • We work to create general awareness and transmit this commitment to our clients so, in turn, they are responsible towards the environment. • With our “Go Green” strategy, we have built capacity to become the Sustainable Energy Finance banker in Lebanon. Thus our strategy aims at encouraging companies to control and reduce the environmental impact of their activities, embrace renewable energy and engage in responsible and sound environmental management practices by increasing companies’ competitiveness through cost reduction and improved productivity. Investing Responsibly Supporting energy efficiency and printing etc…) agriculture, petrol renewable energy projects is key stations, green buildings, schools, to fostering a sustainable future universities, hospitals, restaurants, Fransabank in Lebanon and other parts of bakeries, residential, leasing, total value of SEF the region. For the past years, etc. These financing projects eligible projects, we have been moving away from are funded through our partnerfrom 2014 until March traditional business by imbedding ships with international financial 2017, reached a new culture within the Bank. institutions and help Fransabank Therefore, we developed Fransabank’s know-how in support clean energy technologies and encourage sustainable USD 104.5 energy financing through extenpractices that will improve million sive training sessions, sharing competitiveness of local (total projects cost is and exchanging best practices companies and increase their USD 192 million) with international financial profitability; while for consumers, institutions. we build partnerships with selected municipalities to create Total number of Accordingly, Fransabank supports awareness and provide subeligible SEF projects: and provides funding for investments aimed at environmentally sidized low-interest rates for personal eco-friendly loans. 170 and socially responsible actions. projects It has created a series of green We have been able to prove to products and advisory services, our customers the importance In the pipeline: supporting both businesses of energy efficiency measures and consumers, allowing for economic development that or renewable energy projects in terms of increase of production/ 28 preserves natural capital and capacity and/or reduction of the projects enhance quality of life. energy bill. In addition, we offer for more than For businesses, we target all some of our customers energy audits to help them identify USD 200 industries, financing till date areas of concern and thus to million projects in different sectors, analyze the best way to develop such as industries (factories, their business. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 50-51 SEF projects financing subdivision 50% 35% 15% for energy efficiency for for projects green building renewable energy covering different sectors projects projects (touristic, agriculture, industry, hospitals, universities, schools, …) The key success factors for Fransabank Sustainable Energy Finance (SEF) loans goes to the Bank’s management commitment and follow-up, the partnership established with major international financial institutions, the incentive programs launched by the Central Bank of Lebanon for energy financing, and the dedication of the Bank’s employees advocating SEF loans in Lebanon, and certainly resides in the breakdown of our finance portfolio. Building the Ecosystem change, environmental projects image and develop environmental of a green building (certified friendly products, but rather to Fransabank has been developing or non-certified), we had to become a “sustainable bank” by a sound ecosystem and creating create awareness to the clients exerting serious efforts to make partnerships will all the players and provide them with enough sure that access to financial in the sustainable energy field proofs of the viability and financial resources promotes environwhether in Lebanon or the benefits of their energy-related mental protection, social justice region. Indeed, we have liaised projects. Therefore, we needed and economic prosperity. with: to have an exhaustive list of the Equipment suppliers mainly in consultants and energy audiIn order to achieve this role, the solar photovoltaic market tors operating in the market Fransabank has developed E nergy and environment and identify lists and targets an Environmental and Social consultants in markets for each segment of this Management System (ESMS), The main official actors of this market. a framework that integrates market including but not limited To execute any project in the Environmental and Social (E&S) to the Ministries of Energy and field, we had to identify and risk management into the Bank’s Water as well as Environment build partnerships with the credit processes allowing us and the Central Bank of suppliers and the operating to follow-up, and reduce the Lebanon parties. environmental impact of the Several Non-Governmental To finalize and monitor the businesses being financed. Organizations, some active projects, we had to have a list associations in this field, the of maintenance and support Based on the ESMS, an UN Development Program function specialists. environmental and social due (UNDP), etc. diligence is conducted to evaluate Several international finance All through the project chain, the compliance of a project with institutions and development we have tried to create links and international environmental best banks identify opportunities. practices and applicable local Some very specialized funds. laws, based on assessment of the environmental and social In order to provide our customers Environmental and management practices in place with the most complete and Social Management (waste management, efficiency global offer, we had to close the System (ESMS) of resources, labour and working loop for this market and have conditions, pollution prevention, extensive knowledge on the When adopting the sustainability community health safety, conserdifferent players and their roles challenge, Fransabank undervation of biodiversity in proximity and responsibilities: stood that it is no longer enough of the project premises, etc…). To initiate any energy efficiency, for banks to promote a green renewable energy, climate The due diligence will allow us to assign a risk category to each project at hand: Category A Category B Category C (High risk) (Medium risk) (Low risk) Corrective action plan Follow-up and corrective required measures required Minimal or no impact Sample projects Sample projects Sample projects • Oil and gas projects • Breweries • Retailers • Large infrastructure • Dairy operations • Software development • Major irrigation • Food processing • Financial services • Mining • General manufacturing plants • Service industries •M  anufacture, storage and • Small scale mining • Consulting firms transport of hazardous • Metal plating •R  esidential projects below 15 chemicals • Pulp and paper mills floors • Queries • Textile plants • Forestry operations • Hotels/tourism • Hospitals • Residential projects above 15 floors The ESMS has been recently practices, and embracing national Finance Corporation integrated in our credit process renewable energy, clean (IFC) and the Government of and will be fully implemented production practices and sound Canada, Fransabank was given over three phases: environmental management, again their support to scale up aiming at the improvement of its lending to businesses that are 1. Clients who have benefited environmental stewardship looking to adopt renewable and from SEF loans across the country. energy-efficient technologies 2. The biggest 20 clients and mitigate climate change. 3. Full integration to cover all SMEs and corporate files. Partnerships, MoUs, In 2016, the IFC provided a loan and Green Awards package of USD 20 million to Currently, the first phase has Fransabank to help increase its been completed with due 2016 marked the year of achieving lending for energy efficiency and diligence performed for SEF results. It was during this year renewable energy projects. This clients, categorized in medium that we have built several was intended to help businesses and low risk categories. The next partnerships and signed save energy, reduce greenhouse phase will be completed within Memorandums of Understandings gas emissions, and promote the ensuing year to cover the 20 that helped us create business sustainable development. The largest exposures, allowing as opportunities, developing the SEF financing package included a such for full integration of the ecosystem and creating a real USD 14 million loan from IFC’s ESMS. cultural shift. own account, and a USD 6 million loan from the IFC-Canada The follow-up that will be Partnerships with Climate Change Program. performed through this system International will urge businesses to identify Institutions The investment marked IFC’s the practices hindering fourth loan to Fransabank Group environmental and social In that context, and following the in Sustainable Energy Finance sustainability, thus taking action successful partnerships over (SEF). In May 2014, IFC provided towards reforming these the past years with the Intera USD 10 million loan to the FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 52-53 Bank and a USD 3 million loan • T  he Chamber of Commerce, • T he Energy Ambassador of to its leasing arm, the Lebanese Industry, Agriculture of Tripoli the Year 2016 was granted Leasing Company SAL (LLC), and North Lebanon and Phoenix to Fransabank Chairman, where both loans were fully Energy to support the creation Mr. Adnan Kassar, as an utilized. Moreover, in January of a solar farm destined to acknowledgement to the 2016, a USD 7 million loan was generate 5MW electricity to efforts exerted by the Bank to also granted to LLC. fulfill the needs of four areas finance energy projects and in Tripoli. Solar panels are create general awareness in Creating a Snowball to be installed in the Rachid Lebanon. Effect Karame International Exhibition Center. • T he Energy Awareness Award Signing Memorandums of – the category of Pioneers of Understandings help foster • T  he E-Eco Solutions for their Sustainability was granted to partnerships that fall in line with Green School Certification Fransabank for the launch of our objectives of setting out a Program to support schools in its Eco-Business loans. green and sustainable environtheir green financing process; w  hich would certify the Fransabank was actively present ment in Lebanon. The MoUs th schools as being “Silver, Gold, at the 7 edition of the Interwere signed with: or Platinum Green School”. national Beirut Energy Forum • IPT petrol stations and Phoenix 2016, a networking place which Energy/Indevco Group IPT Gas Green Recognitions and aims to update the participants Stations to transform the Awards on several initiatives, events and stations into green and achievements in the energy sustainable ones. Resulting from the Bank’s “Go sector in Lebanon and the Arab Green” strategy, its Corporate World. This year again, Fransabank • T  he Lebanese American Social Responsibility commitheld two presentations University (LAU) aiming at ments, its initiatives to support showcasing the Bank’s green launching a cooperation Sustainable Energy Financing CSR activities and its Sustainable between both parties to combat and to invest in the fields of Energy Finance (SEF) initiative, climate change, creating public renewable energy, Fransabank which were given alongside environmental awareness, as accomplishments were well speakers from United Nations well as, funding LAU’s recognized. As such: Development Program (UNDP) in sustainable energy projects. Lebanon and IFC. SEF and SDG 13 – Climate Action Following Fransabank’s adherence the highest recognition and as Kassar, supported the Businessto the Business for Peace such, Fransabank, Chairman worthy Pledge by submitting his Platform in 2014, we were asked Mr. Adnan Kassar, was selected thought piece as a commitment to provide a brief on our CSR to represent SDG 13 Climate to ethical and responsible initiatives explaining how they Action. values. Sharing the commitment fall within the scope of the UN is a mean of endorsing the United 17 Sustainable Development Therefore, as a believer in the Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our Sustainable impact of business energy Goals, agreed on by world leaders Energy Finance strategy received on social progress, Chairman in 2015 and the values we all want by 2030. “Chairman Mr. Adnan Kassar, was selected to represent SDG 13 Climate Action.” FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 54-55 Taking our Experience Overseas Fransabank has been attending Sustainable Energy Finance the annual Conference of Parties initiative within the Group. In for the past two years. With addition, a focus on climate “Fransabank was Sustainable Energy Finance change perspectives in Lebanon, recognized as a being at the heart of Fransabank Fransabank’s commitment “replicable” success Group’s strategy and positioning, towards the environment, and story that IFC will now the Bank was invited, in 2016, by the added-value of the SEF the International Finance initiative through its methodology recommend as best Corporation (IFC), to participate and approach in embedding a practice to its clients in their Panels at the 22nd session new culture within the Bank was in the MENA region. “ of the Conference of Parties presented during the conference. (COP22) in Marrakech, under the Fransabank’s participation at title “Renewables in the Middle COP22 was notable and very Fransabank also participated at East and North Africa: Mission much appreciated. Indeed, with the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Possible and Green Bonds for this initiative Fransabank was Summit in New York at the UN Green Economies”. recognized as a “replicable” General Assembly. During its success story that IFC will now participation, Fransabank shared Mr. Nadim Kassar, General recommend as best practice to its Sustainable Energy Finance Manager at Fransabank gave a its clients in the Middle East & initiative methodology and general overview on the initiation North Africa region. outcome. and development of the Reducing our Ecological Footprint A Green Audit Replacing old air conditioning Retrofitting parking ventilation. chiller system with the VRV air • Parking ventilation retrofit A comprehensive green audit conditioning system and demand control project is on Fransabank Headquarters •T he project was completed; scheduled for the year 2017. was conducted by the Interold air conditioning system national Finance Corporation has been replaced by the VRV Implementing renewable energy (IFC) to evaluate the building air conditioning system, thus solutions (PV on roof and facade). energy efficiency and come up reducing the Bank’s energy • Solar radiant heat barriers for with applicable solutions to be consumption in the HVAC area windows were replaced by mirror implemented in a multi-phase by 30% to 40% coupled with a reflective films on windows schedule. drop in water consumption. which reduced our energy consumption. A brief update on the audit Implementing a full energy • The project of placing solar recommendations and implemanagement program with photovoltaics on the Headmentations: clear targets quarters roof (125 kWp) and •T he monitoring and targeting façade (130 kWp) is under study. Lighting load was the largest program has been completed electrical energy consumption for the VRV system. It was also Towards a Paperless with more than 31% of the total finalized for the infrastructure Environment cost of the Headquarters by end of • The Bank has been gradually March 2017. Moving away from deep-rooted replacing conventional lighting habits is a challenging mission with LED lighting. The project Increasing demand control: especially when working in a was completed for parking and lighting, A/C, escalators, and banking sector involving a lot of floors common areas; offices ventilation. paper consumption. For the past are being done progressively in •L ighting control was finished years, we have been working on parallel with renovations. for the new Data Center area. reducing Fransabank’s environ• As for the branches, Led lighting •N ight consumption control was mental footprint by adopting new and VRV systems are being completed for parking lighting practices and technologies. We employed in all new major and ventilation. Next phase are committed to minimize our renovations which is being will target floors at the Headecological impact mainly by done progressively (around quarters and is expected to be converting most of our documents 25% of branches have already completed by end of 2017. into their digital form, since we been refurbished). •E scalators speed reduction is believe that going paperless can • All decorative lightning were hard to implement on old escalators; simultaneously cut down on removed from the management a study for replacement is in expenses, boost productivity, offices. the pipeline. save trees, hence aiding the overall environment. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 56-57 Our ongoing achievements: Recycle Today for a to be placed, inside the branch: • B  uilding a state-of-the-art Better Tomorrow a blue lid bin for recyclables, whereby clients could throw in data center based on the highest In collaboration with arcenciel, this bin: papers, plastic bottles international standards to Fransabank launched the and cans, and a black lid bin for ensure nonstop operation of Bouchons Roulants initiative in all non-recyclable waste, whereour banking services coupled 2014, with the objective, to by clients can throw in this bin: with significant energy savings. educate Fransabank’s employees tissues, food waste, and plastic It should be noted that among on the importance of sorting and bags… the biggest power consumers recycling plastic caps and bottles are data centers. in order to preserve the environment, Arcenciel handled the collection and provide the bestowment of process of the recyclables from • A  dding to the intranet portal wheelchairs to a person with the blue lid bin. platform additional features special needs. As we wanted this project to such as digital signature/ The plastics collected were succeed and knew that we were encryption, IP telephony mosold to a recycling company in going to face some challenges; bility, and Skype for business. order to provide a wheelchair we assigned a green coordinator The advanced intranet portal to a person with special needs; at each branch to guide clients implementation will provide as, every one ton of recyclable on what to throw in the recycling various benefits including plastic bottle caps collected and bin, in addition, to keep-up with improved collaboration and sold endows arcenciel with a this eco-friendly initiative, we communication, better consolidation wheelchair. shared some advices regarding of information, as well as, the waste sorting through a moving towards a paperless As for the effective promotion of detailed informative list placed environment. these environmentally friendly above the recycling bins to faciliinitiatives and spreading tate the sorting process. • A  dopting a centralized printing environmental awareness to its solution across the organization The initiative main objective is employees, the Bank decided in that will give us the ability to to act as an awareness strategy 2016 to target its customers as control the misuse of paper targeting our branches cuswell. and set quotas on print jobs. tomers. It was intended to alert This will allow users to adopt Following the garbage crisis that our clients on the necessity of double sided-printing and Lebanon went through in 2016, adopting waste management motivate users to minimize and through our commitment practices in their daily life, and the usage of papers. This to a greener environment, better inform the public on how initiative would provide the Fransabank reacted to the crisis and what to recycle. essential tools to pin-point the by introducing an awareness areas where prints are still campaign inciting its clients to needed so as to transform embrace recycling habits. those processes to become As a result, we added to our completely paperless. waste management strategy the new initiative “Start Recycling • R  eaching 52,000 registered Today” targeting selected branches active users of Fransabank in Beirut and Mount Lebanon, internet banking and mobile the areas that were the most banking by end of December affected by the garbage crisis. 2016, an increase of around Accordingly, each branch 12% as compared to the received two color-coded bins Organic Recyclable previous year. • A  dopting an internal paper recycling initiative targeting Since 2014, Fransabank spurred hundreds of employees at its Beirut our employees. This initiative headquarters and Hamra main branch to collect the plastic bottles and has also been a success with caps, not just from their workplace, but also from their homes. With over 5.9 over 459.78 tons of papers tons collected and sent for recycling, this initiative resulted in the acquisition of recycled since 2014 till end of 3 wheelchairs over the past three years. Moreover, Fransabank’s management matched the number of wheelchairs donated through an equal contribution year 2016, and 135.47 tons in to employees’ efforts. As a result, a total of 6 wheelchairs were donated to 2016 alone. people with special needs. Waste Management Approach Fransabank envisages the re-use and recycling of waste where and when possible. Method Explanation 1. The re-use of waste is a major priority. Re-use Computers that are broken or redundant are delivered to the Information and Communication Technology Department which examines their potential scope for re-use. Other computers not in need are donated to schools or to NGOs. Furniture that is in usable state is kept at the warehouse for servicing and sent to branches/departments when the need arises. In addition, furniture that is no longer needed is donated to institutions in need. 2. “Recycle Today for Better Tomorrow “slogan and our partnership with Recycling arcenciel Bouchons Roulants initiative is described beforehand. Paper recycling. Placing recycling bins at selected branches. 3. Whether papers, plastics, electricity, or other resources, employees Reduce are entitled to manage their waste by reducing the superfluous consumption of resources. 4. Excavation of waste and debris left over during branch openings or Excavation of Waste renewal is sent to disposal areas as designated by the municipality. Favoring Green Initiatives #LebanonClimateAct Lebanon Climate Act aims at creating Supporting national efforts to economic growth by addressing climate fight climate change, Fransabank change challenges, and catalyzing the joined the Lebanon Climate Act. involvement of the private sector in the wider This pledge again demonstrates climate change community. The project was our ongoing engagement to organized in line with Lebanon’s Intended Nationally Determined Contributions climate action, and assurance (INDCs), Lebanon’s climate change to reduce our environmental engagement at COP21. Lebanon’s INDC and carbon footprint, increase has mainly set a target of 15% CO2 emissions low-carbon investments, deploy reduction as an unconditional target more clean energy, and build and committed to reduce 30% of its CO2 emissions conditional to finance, technical more sustainable businesses support and capacity building. and communities. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 58-59 Green Business Pledge messages coupled with attractive We received positive feedback graphical animations to be comon these green TV spots from Being one of the first signatories prehended by the public at large our stakeholders which proved to the Green Business Pledge and consequently encourage them very successful and created the launched by Info Pro, (an information to adopt green ideas/initiatives. needed awareness. provider in Lebanon that owns several publications, platforms, products and Messages were informative and services related among others to media explicative; where topics covered and marketing fields); Fransabank the different types of green was rewarded with a certificate initiatives and steps that can be of appreciation during the “Business easily applied as daily habits. For Opportunities in Lebanon’ example, tips included ways of Conference: “Cutting-edge” adopting recycling how to have Economy. The conference a cleaner garbage free enviwitnessed the creation of the ronment, how to differentiate “Where You Land” ‘Lebanon Opportunities Green between reusable, recyclable Business Club’ providing a forum and organic waste, difference Our continuous support for in which all the signatories can between solid wastes and green initiatives and sustainexchange information and learn liquid wastes, how to prepare a able practices has also reached about sustainability practices, grocery shopping list and opt young Lebanese artists. In this and whereby Fransabank shared for eco-friendly products, food context, Fransabank supported its expertise in sustainable safety… the young Lebanese Director energy finance. Wafa’a Celine Halawi to shoot The segments were run on a her short film “Where You Land” “Go Green” TV Segment daily basis at peak times on one raising awareness about the of the main local TV channels garbage crisis in Lebanon. Within Fransabank’s determined and are now available on our belief that public awareness is YouTube channel FransabankGroup. With the support of Fransabank key to changing behaviors that “Where You Land” was filmed negatively affect our environment, and submitted to The Film4 we have prepared 60 TV spots on Climate Global Video Competition. green initiatives and tips entitled This initiative invited young “‫ ”نقّي بيئتك‬which means “Cleanse filmmakers from all over the your environment”. They include world to showcase their talents very simple, straight forward and create a Public Service Advertisement (PSA) to promote action, offer new solutions, and inspire change. It was run during the COP22 in Marrakech. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 60-61 Social Commitment Key highlights Provide financial education programs to fulfil the commitment of providing the youth with a better knowledge of financial issues enabling them to make informed choices Participate in the Children Youth Finance International “Global Money Week”, inviting students from different schools to attend two The total outstanding amount of educational corporate days at Fransabank through a very loans reached the c/v real-world simulation of more than USD 16.36 #UDesign Competition targeted LAU students in million Architecture and Design; at end of year 2016 3 winning projects were selected out of the 11 exposed ones, in total USD 7,000 were handed out to the winners Engage with communities through multistakeholders partnerships or corporate philanthropy, in such fields as culture, social JABAL 2016 young Lebanese artist entrepreneurship, education, integration, and the exhibition preservation of natural and historical heritage welcome 21 Reinforce inclusive communities through strategic talented financial support and corporate volunteerism Lebanese artists & 4,000 visitors FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 62-63 Corporate responsibility should extend beyond a bank’s core business to include the society it serves. Fransabank has a long-standing track record as a responsible financial institution. We view our social commitment as a strategic investment in the societies in which we operate. With a total investment of around USD 0.9 million in 2016, Fransabank showcased a sense of unbounded citizenship for about 100 benefiters from the educational, cultural, and social spectrums. Invested USD 0.9 Million for about 100 benefiters 23% Education Art & Culture 51% Social & Health 26% Youth Financial Education & Inclusion Youth are World’s best bet to lead sustainability 65 out of the 169 SDGs targets reference young people explicitly or implicitly, with a focus on empowerment, participation and/or well-being. There are 20 youth-specific targets spread over six key SDGs: hunger, education, gender equality, decent work, inequality and climate change. In order to achieve “participation, inclusion, accountability and revitalized global engagement embedded in Goals 16 (peaceful, just and inclusive societies) and 17 (partnerships and implementation), young people’s involvement is key. Source: The United Nations Development Program fast facts At Fransabank, we believe that academic institutions, organizato opportunities towards further children should be encouraged to tions, peer groups and families education and employment. learn about personal finance at in a manner that is productive, an early age. It not only benefits constructive and of necessity. In 2016, Fransabank helped the individual later in life; it also educate Lebanese youth to contributes to sound economic Fransabank’s youth engagement ultimately include the young developments in society. This program focuses on education generation in the banking system is why, as a responsible Bank, and enabling talents. It supports and activities; by creating awarewe support children and young young people through educationness among the future clients people in becoming financially led projects that help raise aspiand/or future employees of the confident. It is a participatory rations and confidence, develop banking sector. Accordingly, the approach that engages young core academic along with life Bank partnered with youth people within their communities, skills, while improving access associations and organizations as well as schools and universities in the labor market. Following • U  nderwent a pedagogical for the development of several these presentations and Q&A competition in cooperation initiatives among which the sessions, Fransabank awarded with the General Secretariat launching of specific products selected students with job of Catholic Schools and an and the arrangement of shadowing internships in the educational consultant comeducational tours. Among our departments of their choice. pany, with the participation of partners we list the Children These sessions helps bridge 120 students from 40 schools Youth Finance International (CYFI), the gap between the school/ covering all the Lebanese the United Nations Development university and the professional regions. Cash awards of Program (UNDP), the Higher environment. USD 22,500 were distributed to Council for Childhood under the the 15 top contestants according Ministry of Social Affairs, other • P articipation in the Children to four academic subjects: regional and local organizations Youth Finance International dictation in Arabic, spelling along with selected schools and “Global Money Week”, inviting in English, mathematics, and universities in Lebanon. s tudents from different biology. schools and universities to Our youth financial educational attend two corporate days at • S  upporting the initiatives initiatives include: Fransabank. Students were of the Higher Council for given a global overview of the Childhood in Lebanon and • A  volunteering initiative from banking sector, the different launching joint actions for executives of the Bank was products and services that our children’s financial education, initiated at selected schools Bank offers and their specificities, as well as, raising awareness and universities across a s well as, several tips on on banking and finance. Lebanon. It included more how to apprehend the job than twenty executives from market, its conditions and These initiatives come within the Fransabank’s different rules. Department visits framework of our corporate departments, covering a range were organized along with a social responsibility and contribute of expertise and sharing their very real-world simulation in in the production of a rich, diversified knowledge about; financial which students took in the role national fabric. We aspire not literacy, business and work of a teller, only to nurture a new generation environment, internal/external customer with human values, but also aim rules and regulations, and the relationship at building a culture of dialogue requirements along with officer, thus enriching Lebanon’s diversity possibilities for youth integration customers… and the country’s need to find a harmonious way to live. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 64-65 Youth Targeted Products As we help secure our youth • Free Debit Card or Free Preeducation, we also offer them a paid PayPass Card (ages 18 At Fransabank, we believe that laid-back introductory encounter and above) all people, regardless of their with the Bank. As future potential • Free Prepaid Internet Card background, should have access customers, the youth are • No transaction fees when to resources that would push an important segment of our withdrawing cash from them forward in life to achieve society; yet we have to work on Fransabank ATMs their full potential. Today’s world building a relation based on trust • No transaction fees when basically cannot afford to ignore and transparency with the young making purchases at POS and a broad spectrum of talents. generation to secure a double no interest applied Education is crucial to social edge relation. Therefore, we put • In addition to a 20% discount unity, mutual acceptance, and their satisfaction and interest on the Beirut Circle Card a communal advancement. first while developing a product privilege and lifestyle card aligned with their lifestyle. offering special rates, discounts Accordingly, Fransabank Accordingly, we help those and promotions at prominent educational loan total outstanding between 16 and 25 years old hospitality and entertainment amount reached around the c/v gain financial freedom and start places in Lebanon. of USD 16.36 million as end of leading their way into their future December 2016. Fransabank through our LEAD Account. Fransabank, through its educational loan was launched Education Saving & Insurance in 2009, offering all qualified Aware of their financial capaPlan “Fransajeunesse”, has students the opportunity to bilities, the account is offered been also offering the chance for pursue their education either free of charge in addition to parents to secure their children’s in Lebanon or abroad at very preferential interest rates. education with a savings plan competitive rates and flexible that provides the best return on repayment periods. Acknowledging Benefits cover a wide range of investment. Being able to save the importance of education in services such as: ahead of time and ensure the empowering a vigorous Lebanese funds for their children’s future •F  ree Prepaid PayPass Card youth, we also echo our support college education, brings peace with contactless features that through other collaborative of mind to the parent customers can be tapped to pay with (ages initiatives. especially with today’s increasing below 18) tuition fees. The success of the savings plan resides in its flexibility. Premium payments can start with as low as USD 25 per month with the possibility of increasing the payments at their convenience. At contract maturity, the children can choose to receive the amount saved as a lump sum amount or as an annual income. Of course, parents are free to modify the contract duration, insured capital, schooling amounts and their yearly increase, beneficiary, as well as premium amount and frequency. They may make additional feedings and benefit from the return on savings. “UDesign” Competition Three winner projects were an educational organization selected out of the 11 exposed that aims to assist students in Expressing our commitment ones; whereby the total prize their pursuit of higher education, to the next generation, we was USD 7,000. This initiative and offered USD 30,000 worth of have launched the “UDesign” was part of Fransabank’s pledge scholarships to the Beirut competition, for the second year to invest in promising talents Baptist School, among others. in a row, targeting this year, among youth, encouraging their exclusively, Lebanese American potentials and most importantly In addition, being proud of University (LAU) students in rewarding their creativity. Lebanon’s Francophonie affiliation, Architecture, Interior Design, Fransabank sponsored the Graphic Design, and Fashion Awarding scholarships to high Université Saint Joseph (USJ) Design fields. This second achievers at numerous Lebanese event “Championat international edition aimed at providing LAU schools and universities, and de débat Francophone”; which students with the opportunity to providing financial aid to a consisted of an eloquence embody unique ideas, create and number of philanthropic educompetition whereby debaters prototype product designs cational organizations that are had to stand for their argumencatering for Fransabank primarily concerned with assisting tative and oral skills, charismatic clientele as proposals for end of low-income groups, is part of asset, and convincing aptitude. year corporate gifts. Fransabank involvement in the The debated topics were chosen younger segment of the society. accordingly to the latest real Students were challenged to In 2016, the Bank supported world events. The championship design a functional and small different academic institutions in stressed on the importance of to medium sized products and developing and creating benefits public speaking in today’s world presented their concepts and well beyond our own business where education alone is not products to a jury that was potential. As such, we donated enough if not coupled with other composed of well-known designers USD 10,000 to Walid Jumblatt advantages. and entrepreneurs. Foundation for University Studies The stapler The self-planter The steward A timeless with a futuristic design, Integrating nature to the office life, It has a grey painted solid wood on made of steel, rubber and plexi with an easiness in taking care of the the inside with a rose gold metal achieving a kind of transparency and plant. The material used included sheet covering. The upper side can clarity we saw in the Bank. It used ceramic while the lids were made hold a pen; on the sides, business pins instead of staples to create of leather and the tools made out of cards and USBs can be inserted. The something unique while being aware stainless steel. lower slit is a charger stopper. that the pins are more eco-friendly as it helps in reducing paper waste. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 66-67 Education for public institutions performance program, a who’s who of the All Private Public to activate the Lebanese participants in the six editions Partnership Government’s role. as well as, testimonials from the French experts that were At Fransabank, we believe that In total, 116 Lebanese senior championing the trainings. strengthening the public-private civil servants were trained over partnership will lead to higher the six editions. These meetings With similar initiatives, social benefits. and workshops sought to keep Fransabank sets sights on pace with general managers the importance of developing, In this context, Fransabank and senior staffs in the departenlightening, and revamping had been cooperating for six ments and public institutions, in the public sector in particular; consecutive years (from 2010 order to exchange experiences as it acts out as a mainstay for to 2015) with L’Ecole Nationale and set the basics of corporate national advancement. D’Administration (ENA), the governance, and improve overall French Embassy in Beirut, and performance. Our cooperation Basil Fuleihan Institute of with the Basil Fuleihan Institute Finance for a joint education of Finance tackled profound program under the theme topics that served the monetary “Rencontres des Cadres and administrative reforms dirigeants de la fonction which are essential to align Publique libanaise”. The and meet the public finance program was intended to support policies and objectives. In 2016, Lebanon’s public sector key the program came to an end. senior officials further develop Consequently, our contribution key leadership and managerial was extended for the publishing skills. These efforts were targeted of “Trombinoscope” – a publication towards the reinforcement of compiling a description of the JABAL exhibitions aim at: • R eflecting the diversity and vitality of emerging Lebanese contemporary art • Promoting Lebanese young artists from different regions • C reating a cultural exchange platform between art professionals, artists and visitors • Boosting the country’s artistic talents. A Culture on the Go Fransabank has always been and pave their paths towards multitude of techniques, going an art advocate trusting that maximizing their potentials. from digital to monotype drawing, everyone should have access from the classical work with ink to art and music. Through our Fransabank continued on to the simple drawing on carbon partnerships with cultural instiextending its support to talented paper or with lead pencil were tutions, we help bring together young artists helping them used; a diversity which enriched people from all walks of life. Our exhibit their artworks and making these creations. The mixture of long-term cooperation with local cultural experiences available figurative and narrative moveart events, museums, festivals, to a wider audience. However, ments let the viewers to discover and theaters aim to open doors the 12th edition of JABAL made the dazzling artistic dimension and minds. a turning point in 2016. For the behind these works. first time, JABAL shed light on JABAL 2016 the so-called “Arts Ludiques” Jabal 2016 had also an interthrough the organization of an national dimension, whereby Since 1998, Fransabank has exhibition totally dedicated to we invited Mr. Serge Darpeix, embarked on a noble mission this topic. the artistic and technical direcof patronage in favor of artistic tor of the Rencontres du 9e Art creation. This involvement The “Arts Ludiques” represents d’Aix-en-Provence – France, to towards raising awareness a bridge between the public Lebanon to initiate and put in among the public has resulted in and contemporary art. This art, place the participation of Lebanese the creation of JABAL Jeunes also called «9th Art», is already artists in the next edition of the Artistes des Beaux-Arts du Liban part of public institutions with Festival in France, and better the first-of-its kind artexhibitions devoted thereto in inform the public about the advocacy initiative and exhibition the major museums around the importance of the 9th Art which dedicated for young artists of world. is still in the shadow here in fine arts in Lebanon launched by Lebanon. In this context, Darpeix a financial institution. This new generation of artists, highlighted the richness of strip whose creations revolve around cartoons as an innovative means Following 12 years of success, illustrated novels or intimate of expression which crosses all JABAL has become part of animation, talked to us about generations and has the ability to Fransabank strategic cultural their experiences, memories, address all issues. mission. The platform offers and their daily life in Lebanon. A new horizons to emerging artists from all the Lebanese regions FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 68-69 JABAL Milestones 21 young Lebanese artists exhibited their artworks and more than 4,000 visitors attended the exhibition during the four days of Jabal with galleries, curators, institutions, art directors of museums attending to encourage the artists. Being aware that this art has a great impact on our contemporary society and deeply affects a very wide audience, JABAL wanted to pay tribute to this new generation of cartoonists, illustrators and script writers, by providing an overview of their latest works and the new trends in this field. Mazen Kerbaj Strip from a short story edited in the magazine “Strapazin” Ghadi Ghosn Excerpt from the comics “The Adventure of Fakhr el Din” We pride ourselves by being an enthusiastic and responsible financial institution. Through such collaborative ventures with artists, we offer opportunities to enhance the community’s understanding of art on one hand, and sustain the best possible artists for the creative and cultural industries which we serve on the other hand. Samandal – Colorful prints of the 15 editions of Samandal And the most Beautiful Village in Lebanon for 2016 is… Akkar el-Atika More about Akkar – North of Lebanon el-Atika Fransabank, partnered with the Surface: Ministry of Tourism in Lebanon 40 km2, the village of Akkar and L’Orient le Jour newspaper, el-Atika is one of the biggest in to launch a CSR initiative aiming Lebanon. at highlighting the charming rural areas of Lebanon, and Population: promote rural tourism. It focuses a bit less than 20 000. primarily on pushing tourists, Number of hotels and expatriates and residents to go regions can draw attention restaurants: outside the city and discover to traditional villages and the small cafés on the main street, the natural, cultural, religious, guesthouses they embrace. In and two restaurants that serve archaeological and gastronomic fact, the rural tourism sector, Lebanese mezzé located at the depth of Lebanon. which in the past represented top of the village. No hotels to 5% to 6% of the overall tourism date. Ten villages were nominated and industry, now occupies about Lebanese were invited to vote for Altitude: 8.5% expected to reach 20% in their favorite one accordingly. The village spreads across a five years. (Al Diyar newspaper, July 12, The contestant villages for the mountainside: it starts about 2016) year 2016 were: Old Akkar, 600 meters to peak at over 1700 Dhoor Chweir, Duma, Jezzine, meters, near the source of The initiative succeeded in Ehden, Hammana, Rashayya Chouh (Cilicia fir). attracting the Lebanese el-Wadi, Kfrazebian, Sarafand expatriates’ attention towards Weather: and Yammooneh. People had to their home country. It proved The climate is Mediterranean, vote for their favorite Lebanese once again the attachment of cold in winter and pleasant in village which they think deserves Lebanese living abroad to their summer, with a high rate of the title of the most beautiful country independently from the snowfall and rainfall despite a village. The project will be distance and alienation. With decline in recent years which spread over three consecutive nearly 122,000 voters and a explains the multitude of sources years with 10 different villages major contribution from in the locality. for each year. expatriates, Old Akkar or Akkar el-Atika received the title of the The beauty criterion is highmost beautiful village with 46.7% lighted for a bigger aim which of the votes. is the creation of sustainable development for the communities through jobs creation for the inhabitants, the promotion of rural tourism, and the boosting of their steadfastness to their land. It also aims to preserve the heritage and sites that are sometimes violated in terms of disrespect to the environment and relevant laws. Such projects that map the country’s different FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 70-71 Music a Tool for Human Communication Whether musicians, dancers, or singers setting the footpath for young Lebanese flairs to succeed is an essential tool in human communication and for a varied cultural experience. Fransabank extended its financial support to a Lebanese rising star, the singer Marc Hatem. After his participation in the reality television singing competition franchise The Voice France, Marc Hatem won the heart of the Lebanese public. Baalbeck International Festival Fransabank has also a rich history of supporting different cultural events in Lebanon which confirms year after year the Bank’s strong belief in the fundamental role cultural events play in the development of our society. Fransabank partnered with major festivals that took place all over Lebanon from Beiteddine, to Baalbeck, Ehden, Batroun, Tannourine, Maghdouche, Antoura and many more. Fransabank aims through participating in these events to convey a universal message and faith in Lebanon’s cultural role, an embodiment of ingenuity, a call for peace and a mirror of Lebanese prosperous heritage. Beiteddine Art Festival An Aspiring Society At Fransabank, we are committed supporting the ATLS® program • Supported Roads for Life to building stronger and more of Roads for Life to optimize the in the Beirut International inclusive communities. Through chances of survival for victims in Marathon annual platform our investments, corporate the “Golden Hour of Trauma” or bringing participants to run for volunteers and donations, we the first 60 minutes following an their cause and for the greater help people through difficulties accident, as well as, participating purpose of peace and love, see life from a different perspective. in several of its fundraising which we are always keen to Our social capital provides activities: be part of. assistance to organizations • E ngaged for another year in • Supported the concert of based on scalable and measurable sponsoring all doctors, from Abeer Nehme which was a impacts that cover all society’s private and public hospitals big fundraising success and segments from children, youth, spread on all Lebanese territory where music was a universal women, the elderly, the disabled, who took the ATLS program language to send a road safety and families living in situations (Advanced Trauma Life Support) awareness message to the of poverty and social isolation. a concise training for ER attendees and empowering doctors for the early care young people to be safe on Roads for Life of trauma patients. In 2016, roads. 90 Doctors were trained for For six years now, Fransabank ATLS® and 33 hospitals were Fransabank believes that with has accompanied Roads for Life covered. In total, and since contributing in such social in its mission to save lives and 2011 till end of 2016, responsibility initiatives, results alleviate route accidents’ damages, 4  20 doctors covering 90 can be achieved to reinforce further increasing awareness hospitals, were trained and every citizen’s right to life. of the “Rescue Culture”. In received certificates in 2016, Fransabank passionately collaboration with the American demonstrated its strong comUniversity of Beirut Medical mitment towards the community Center (AUBMC). Conflict Medicine in a This year, Fransabank partnered community through education Region of Turmoil with LBCI, a Lebanese TV station, and awareness, provide early to help increase awareness detection, expert diagnosis, and Operating in a region that is and premature detection of this coordinate total care for develcontinuously affected by instadisease. The game show hosted opmentally and neurologically bility and turmoil, the treatment diagnosed women who shared impaired children, Skoun, the of war victims from all sides has their experience from detection to outpatient therapeutic facility in been of major importance. This illness treatment in an amiable Lebanon that offers prevention long history, has incited Franatmosphere. The winner received and treatment to drug users, The sabank to contribute to forge a cash prize to support her in the Neonate Fund, lending a helping partnerships between different treatment. hand to needy families whose stakeholders to provide solutions newborns are being cared for that would ameliorate the Bringing Life, Health and in the Neonatal Intensive Care consequences of conflicts. Hope Units (NICU), Al Younbouh, a Accordingly, we have extended rehabilitation center for mentally our financial support to the This was not all, as, throughout challenged young adults, Brave Middle East Medical Assembly the year 2016, the Bank has Heart aiding to cover the cost of (MEMA) sponsoring their annual supported several causes covering surgeries and hospitalization for fundraising gala dinner which a wide scope of non-profit organeedy children suffering from raised money for the payment nizations which are relevant to heart complications, CHANCE of tuitions for needy student the local communities’ welfares. helping Lebanese children with doctors. This interdisciplinary These include: Yaduna with the cancer or blood disorders receive organization is dedicated to mission to improve women’s the best chance for cure, Anta the study and treatment of the cardiovascular health, Salim El Akhi giving hope and joy of life to health consequences of conflict Hoss Bioethics and Professionthe handicap children and their with a focus on the pathological, alism Program at the American families, and Jouzour Loubnan psychological and social maniUniversity of Beirut (AUB) as an which cares for the environment, festations of war wounds. interdisciplinary resource for among others. faculty, students, and healthcare Wear it Pink providers who are involved in Fransabank’s support to these bioethics education, research, NGOs is part of its social With most breast cancer deaths and consultation, OpenMind fund investment and effort to create occurring in lowand middlewhich was established to enable community awareness, expand income countries, most affected the AUB Medical Center’s access to basic needs and women are diagnosed in final Special Kids Clinic (ASKC) rights, and empower people for a stages due generally to lack of conduct research, empower the brighter future. awareness and poor access to health services. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 72-73 Indeed Better Together Street where stories were shared and bonds were made to draw Indeed Better Together Association smiles on the faces of these aims at serving underprivileged children. At the end of each Iftar, individuals and families in Tripoli each child received a book as and North Lebanon. The main a gesture. This book entitled objective of this association is to “‫ ”عدّيات‬was bought by the Bank remap Tripoli socially and culturally from Dar Onboz, one of JABAL by spreading joy and incarnating 2016 participants. the conviviality between Lebanese citizens. Fransabank heartedly Likewise, Fransabank in partnerwelcomed this initiative believing ship with Beirut Celebrations and in the potential of the northern The Lebanese Food Bank orgacapital of Lebanon – Tripoli, nization launched the Christmas its inhabitants’ right to steady Holiday Food Drive. We received development, the need for an 200 children at the Bank coming economic revival and the advancefrom different regions in Lebanon, ment of peaceful cohabitation where they enjoyed eating, playing, among its citizens. enchanting, and laughing and spent together a joyful evening Fransabank Hosts heading back home with sweets Orphans on Special and gifts. For the second year, Occasions Fransabank teamed up with these two organizations to For the year 2016, Fransabank, bring joy to those in need and as customary, invited more than share the Christmas spirit. 270 orphans coming from the Social Welfare Institutes orphanages to share the giving spirit of the holy month of Ramadan with Fransabank Family members. The children were welcomed during three Iftars. The Iftars were hosted in the Bank’s Headquarters at Hamra ONE LEBANON for a Mini-Football Game On the occasion of the UN International Day of Sport for Development & Peace, Fransabank partnered with ONE LEBANON for a friendly mini-football game with ambassadors, celebrities and diplomats, all united as a One Lebanon team. In addition, Fransabank sustained its annual support to the Collège Notre Dame de Jamhour inter-scholar sports’ tournaments. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 74-75 Select Awards H.E. Mr. Adnan Kassar and Fransabank received select awards and recognitions. Award from the former Executive Oslo Business for Peace Honourees Director of the UN Global Compact 2014 Mr. Kassar received an award from the former Mr. Kassar has been named a Business for Peace Executive Director of the UN Global Compact, Mr. Honourees by the Business for Peace Foundation’s Georg Kell for his role, as president of the Internaindependent Award Committee consisting of Nobel tional Chamber of Commerce, in the founding of the Prize winners in Peace and Economics. He was UN Global Compact with then Secretary General of selected amongst over 120 nominations from over the UN, Mr. Kofi Annan, in 2000 at the CSR Conference 50 countries, as an Honouree for being, as described that was held in Beirut, Lebanon in March 2013. by Per L. Saxegaard, chairman, Business for Peace Foundation, a businessperson “who, through his own United Nations Industrial Development actions and commitments, promote socially responsible Organization (UNIDO) Award and ethical business practices in an outstanding way, and stand out as examples to the world”. Mr. Kassar was awarded by UNIDO Director General, Mr. Li Yong, for his role in empowering women and youth celebrating UNIDO’s 50th anniversary in Vienna, ICC Merchant of Peace Award Austria in November 2016. Mr. Kassar received the ICC Merchant of Peace Award from the former ICC Chairman Mr. Gerard Certificate of Appreciation Worms in Doha in April 2013, on the occasion of ICC’s World Chambers Congress, for his devotion Mr. Kassar received a certificate of appreciation for and calls for global peace through partnerships in his distinguished contribution to the 2013 Beirut business. Conference entitled “Economy for Mankind”, which gathered more than 500 Muslim and Christian business leaders that shared ideas for progress 2015 Elite Quality Recognition for based on Corporate Social Responsibility and opened Outstanding Achievement of (Next Line) the way for new perspectives for global economic Best-in-Class MT103 STP at a rate of and social development respectful of human dignity. 99.67% Fransabank received JP Morgan Chase’s “2015 Elite Quality Recognition Award for Outstanding Achievement Green Recognitions during the 7th of (Next Line) Best-in-Class MT103 STP” at a rate of Edition of the International Beirut 99.67%”, which indicates the high quality of payment Energy Forum 2016 transactions processed by Fransabank. JP Morgan, Mr. Kassar was named the Energy Ambassador of singled out Fransabank for the exceptionally high the Year 2016 as an acknowledgement to the efforts quality of its payment transactions, attaining the exerted by the Bank to finance energy projects and highest percentage among banks. create general awareness in Lebanon. Fransabank received the Energy Awareness Award Quality Recognition Award 2016 – the category of Pioneers of Sustainability for the Fransabank received the Commerzbank Straight launch of its Eco-Business Loans. through Processing (STP) Award, in recognition of its excellence in the delivery of commercial payments and financial institution transfers drawn on the MasterCard Champion Partner Bank Bank’s EURO account with Commerzbank AG. Award Fransabank won MasterCard Champion Partner Bank Award in the first “MasterCard Forum for Innovation 2016” in Eastern Europe. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 76-77 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Content Index Standard Disclosure Description Cross-reference/Direct answer/Notes Pages G4-1 Chairmen statement Message from the Chairmen 4-5 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Message from the Chairmen 4-5 Our Strategic Direction to Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Our Materiality Assessment 12-13-14 G4-3 Name of the organization About Fransabank 6-7 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services About Fransabank 6-7 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Fransabank headquarters is located on Hamra Main Street, Beirut in Lebanon. G4-6 Countries where the organization operates About Fransabank 6-7 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About Fransabank 6-7 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, About Fransabank 6-7 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization (including total Fransabank Annual Report 2016 number of employees, total number of operations, https://goo.gl/nca1oc net sales and net revenues, total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products and services provided) G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract Diversity and Inclusion 41-42 and gender. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender, total workforce by employees, supervised workers and by gender, report total workforce by region and gender, report if substantial portion of work is by self-employees or contractors, report significant variations in employment numbers (seasonal variation) G4-11 Total employees covered by collective bargaining 41-42 Diversity and Inclusion agreements G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Supply Chain Management 37 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period There are no significant changes during the regarding size, structure, or ownership reporting period. G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or Managing Risk 20 principle is addressed by the organization Investing Responsibly 50-51 Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) 51-52 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Fransabank is a signatory to the United Nations social charters, principles, or other initiatives to Global Compact (UNGC) and Business for Peace which the organization subscribes or endorses initiative. G4-16 Memberships in associations and national or Fransabank is active in many organizations and international advocacy organizations in which the associations, particularly those that focus on organization: our core business. Some of our significant and • Has positions in governance bodies; strategic memberships include the UNGC, the • Participates in projects or committees; UNDP Lebanon Lobbying Group, as well as other • Provides substantive funding beyond routine strategic international alliances. membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic Standard Description Cross-reference/Direct answer/Notes Disclosure Pages G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s About the Report 15 consolidated financial statements Specify entities that are not covered in the report About the Report 15 G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect Our Materiality Assessment 12-13-14 boundaries and how the organization implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List of all the material aspects identified in the Our Materiality Assessment 12-13-14 process for defining report content G4-20 For each material aspect report the boundary within Our Materiality Assessment 12-13-14 the organization G4-21 For each material aspect report aspect boundary Our Materiality Assessment 12-13-14 outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information No information has been restated from previous provided in previous reports, and the reasons for reports. such restatements G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting Fransabank is reporting for the first time its Scope periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries and Aspect Boundaries. G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Our Stakeholders’ Engagement and Communication 10-11 organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Our Stakeholders’ Engagement and Communication 10-11 with whom to engage G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Our Stakeholders’ Engagement and Communication 10-11 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Our Stakeholders’ Engagement and Communication 10-11 through stakeholder engagement, and how the Our Materiality Assessment 12-13-14 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for About the Report 15 information provided G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Our last CSR report was for the fiscal year 2015, issued in July 2016. G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) We publish a comprehensive report on a yearly basis. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or 88 its contents G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option chosen, the GRI About the Report 15 Content Index for the chosen option, the reference This report contains Standard Disclosures from the to the External Assurance Report, if the report has GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. been externally assured. Note: Fransabank did not seek external assurance for the report. G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking About the Report 15 external assurance for the report Note: Fransabank did not seek external assurance for the report. G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including Corporate Governance Framework 19-20 committees under the highest governance body Fransabank Annual Report 2016 https://goo.gl/nca1oc G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and About Fransabank 6-7 norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Business Ethics 20-21-22-23 codes of ethics FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 78-79 Pages Generic DMA Our Materiality Assessment 12-13-14 Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Fransabank Annual Report 2016 https://goo.gl/nca1oc Learning and Development 43-44 Creating Tomorrow’s Leaders 44 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 63-64-65-66-67 A Culture on the Go 68-69-70-71 An Aspiring Society 71-72-73 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Fransabank Annual Report 2016 https://goo.gl/nca1oc for organization’s activities due to climate change Managing Risk 20 Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) 51-52 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 investments and services supported Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Financing 30 Innovative Entrepreneurship 31-32 Accessible Homeownership 33 Creating Tomorrow’s Leaders 44 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 63-64-65-66-67 A Culture on the Go 68-69-70-71 An Aspiring Society 71-72-73 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 extent of impacts Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Financing 30 Innovative Entrepreneurship 31-32 Accessible Homeownership 33 Creating Tomorrow’s Leaders 44 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 63-64-65-66-67 A Culture on the Go 68-69-70-71 An Aspiring Society 71-72-73 Category: Environmental Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method Reducing our Ecological Footprint 56-57-58 Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and Investing Responsibly 50-51 investments by type Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment G4-DMA G4-LA1 Number and rate of new employee hires and turnover Diversity and Inclusion 41-42 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Learning and Development 43-44 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental Diversity and Inclusion 41-42 leave, by gender Pages Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training for employees Learning and Development 43-44 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and learning that Learning and Development 43-44 support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Employees receiving performance and career Learning and Development 43-44 development reviews Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Diversity and Inclusion 41-42 employee category according to gender and age group Sub-Category: Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR2 Employee training on Human Rights policies or Business Ethics 20-21-22-23 procedures relevant to operations Sub-Category: Society Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA Local community engagement, impact assessments, Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 G4-SO1 and development programs Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Financing 30 Our Stakeholders’ Engagement and Communication 10-11 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 63-64-65-66-67 An Aspiring Society 71-72-73 Access points in low-populated or economically Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 FS13 disadvantaged areas by type Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Financing 30 Putting Clients First 34-35-36 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 FS14 disadvantaged people Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Financing 30 Putting Clients First 34-35-36 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial Business Ethics 20-21-22-23 FS15 products and services Putting Clients First 34-35-36 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 FS16 beneficiary Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) 30 Innovative Entrepreneurship 31-32 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 63-64-65-66-67 Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Business Ethics 20-21-22-23 policies and procedures FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 80-81 Pages Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA G4-PR3 Product and service information required labeling Putting Clients First 34-35-36 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Putting Clients First 34-35-36 Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Putting Clients First 34-35-36 and losses of customer data Financial Sector Supplement Aspect: Product Portfolio G4-DMA FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Financing 30 sector Investing Responsibly 50-51 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 deliver a specific social benefit for each business line Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Financing 30 broken down by purpose Investing Responsibly 50-51 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 63-64-65-66-67 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed Investing Responsibly 50-51 to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Aspect: Active Ownership G4-DMA FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 institution’s portfolio with which the reporting Investing Responsibly 50-51 organization has interacted on environmental or Environmental and Social Management System 51-52 social issues (ESMS) Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 63-64-65-66-67 An Aspiring Society 71-72-73 Our Implementation of the UN Global Compact 10 Principles As our Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we reaffirm our commitment to abide by internationally recognized human rights, have socially acceptable working conditions, protect the environment, and combat corruption. Fransabank joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2013. The table below describes our COP on the UNGC’s 10 principles. HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect Fransabank relationship with its employees, partners, and customers are the protection of internationally founded on the principles of human rights and international best practices. proclaimed human rights; and 2. The Bank follows a well-defined code of conduct and a sound corporate make sure that they are not complicit governance framework based on four main points: transparency, integrity, in human rights abuses fairness and accountability; while still implementing the sector’s specific policies and guidelines. LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the freeEmployees are free to join the Bank’s employees’ union, or any association dom of association and the effective and collective bargaining. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced Fransabank is keen on providing competitive compensation and promotions and compulsory labour; based on an annual performance evaluation; ensuring, therefore, its employees’ development and remuneration. As for new joiners, they are selected based on their skills and the Bank’s needs. Regular feedbacks from all sides and levels of employees are always welcomed. 5. Fransabank refuses any form of child employment or forced labour. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in Fransabank values diversity and inclusion in the workplace recognizing respect of employment and occupation the employees’ contribution to the success of the Bank, and putting aside all forms of discrimination or criteria that are irrelevant to the Banks’ workflow. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 82-83 ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a Fransabank is the leader Bank in Lebanon to provide clean energy, and precautionary approach to eco-friendly loans for businesses and individuals. Employees carry out environmental challenges; in-depth scrutiny for the lending activities. 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater Four Memorandum of Understandings were signed to support the shift environmental responsibility; and towards green energy. 9. encourage the development and The Bank encourages its employees to adopt environmental practices; diffusion of environmentally friendly trying to switch its corporate culture to a greener one promoting individual technologies contribution to the protection of the environment through various initiatives such as recycling projects and the consumption reduction programs. In 2016, Fransabank helped saving 3,250 trees by recycling 135.47 tons of papers, and donated two wheelchairs by recycling 3.4 tons of plastics. Fransabank is making progress on diminishing its energy consumption and switching to clean energy technologies in its operations, this includes greenhouse gas emissions, paper, water, and waste management. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against Fransabank fully abides by local and/or international requirements and corruption in all its forms, including regulations to guarantee a full compliance to anti-corruption laws, extortion and bribery. keeping up with new procedures concerning any new law. Following a transparent governance, any new regulations or updated laws are systemically shared with the Bank’s stakeholders, Board of Directors, shareholders, and top management through open handed reports. Employees are as well systematically informed and appropriately trained to ensure best practices. The Bank is committed to the banking secrecy law and protects all digital information. Our Contribution to the Sustainable Developments Goals (SDGs) SDGs objective Our contribution Cross-reference Pages Goal 4: • We promote youth financial education and Youth Financial Quality Education inclusion through our participation in Global Education and Ensure inclusive and Money Week and through our internship Inclusion 63-64-65-66-67 equitable quality programs and other educational initiatives. education and promote • We believe that education should be accessible Learning and lifelong learning to all through our educational loans. Development 43-44 opportunities for all. • We encourage advancement education program for our employees. • We run youth competitions to university students to foster innovation and creativity. • We support local educational institutions in collaboration with partner organizations. • We adopt voluntarism initiatives for promoting financial education among universities and schools. Goal 5: • We foster diversity and inclusion within the Diversity and Inclusion 41-42 Gender Equality Bank. Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 Achieve gender equality • We support women empowerment through our and empower all women microfinance program and SMEs loans. Small and Medium and girls. • We support women entrepreneurs through our Sized Enterprises participation in equity funds as per the Central (SMEs) Financing 30 Bank of Lebanon Circular 331. Innovative Entrepreneurship 31-32 Goal 8: • We care for the economic development Lending Responsibly 27 Decent Work and through our responsible lending activities Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 Economic Growth • We promote financial inclusion through our Promote sustained, microcredit program and Small and Medium Small and Medium inclusive and sustainable Sized financing loans. Sized Enterprises economic growth, full • We support young entrepreneurs through our (SMEs) Financing 30 and productive role as a lender and financial intermediary. employment and • We help large businesses grow through our Innovative decent work for all. financing products and services. Entrepreneurship 31-32 • We are an integral part of the economy and Diversity and Inclusion 41-42 society in our role as an employer, client and taxpayer. Learning and • We provide forward-thinking working Development 43-44 environment. • We offer progressive working conditions for our employees. FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 84-85 SDGs objective Our contribution Cross-reference Pages Goal 9: • We finance renewable energy and energy efficient Investing Responsibly 50-51 Industry, Innovation projects through our sustainable energy loan. Financial Inclusion 27-28-29 and Infrastructure • We help businesses flourish through our Small and Medium Build resilient micro, small, medium, and large businesses Sized Enterprises infrastructure, financing products and services. (SMEs) Financing 30 promote inclusive • We invest in innovative start-ups in the Lebanese and sustainable knowledge economy. Innovative industrialization and • We assess the environmental and social Entrepreneurship 31-32 foster innovation. management risks associated with our lending Environmental and activities. Social Management System (ESMS) 51-52 Goal 11: • We invest in green projects. Investing Responsibly 50-51 Sustainable Cities • We signed memorandum of understanding Partnerships, MoUs, and Communities with different public and private sectors to and Green Awards 52-53 Make cities and human promote sustainable energy collaborations. settlements inclusive, • We provide counselling, auditing, and Environmental and safe, resilient and assistance service for clients wishing to adopt Social Management sustainable. green strategies. System (ESMS) 51-52 • We implement an Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) in the Bank’s credit processes. Goal 13: • We offer sustainable energy finance loans for Investing Responsibly 50-51 Climate Action businesses and eco-friendly loans for individuals. SEF and SDG 13 – Take urgent action to • Chairman Mr. Adnan Kassar, was selected Climate Action 54 combat climate change to represent SDG 13 Climate Action by and its impacts. Businessworthy.org. Partnerships, MoUs, • We were recognized as a replicable success and Green Awards 52-53 story in our sustainable energy financing program that the IFC will recommend as best Environmental and practice in the MENA Region. Social Management • We partner with international and local financial System (ESMS) 51-52 institutions for our sustainable energy finance Taking our Experience initiative. Overseas 55 • We signed four Memorandum of Understandings to promote greener and sustainable environment Reducing our Ecological in Lebanon. Footprint 56-57-58 • We share and exchange best practices in sustainable energy finance with international financial institutions. • We implement an Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) in the Bank’s credit processes. • We continuously provide advisory services for our customers and free energy audits. • We work on reducing our ecological footprint through several initiatives. • We conducted a green audit on our Headquarters and came up with applicable energy efficient solutions. Code of Conduct and Professional Ethics Code of Conduct Employee Behavior • General employee conduct • Physical appearance and dress code Dress code policy for women Dress code policy for men • Non-smoking policy Non-smoking areas Sign requirements Implementation of the non-smoking law • Working hours, attendance, and punctuality • Gossips and rumors • Bank property • Social media and bank image Personal social media Business social media Reporting Illegal or Unethical Behavior • Incident reporting • Accounting complaints Professional Ethics Conflict of Interest • Outside employment • Improper personal benefits • Service on boards and committees Customers Relations • Clarity of information • Confidential information and banking secrecy • Quality of service • Anti-Money Laundering (AML) • Politics Accepting gifts, meals, and entertainment from customers, suppliers, and others doing business with Fransabank Fraudulent or Illegal Acts Theft Relations with other Banks • Exchange of information • Competition • Announcements and advertisements FRANSABANK | Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 | 86-87 Information Security The Information Security Unit published the “End User Security Guide”, a set of security policies that addresses risks directly related to the users’ work environment. All employees should make sure to read and abide by its content. Below is a brief summary of that document. Email Usage Computer Security Email is a communication tool and is allowed for business All computer devices should be properly protected by purposes only. Everyone is held responsible for his/her restricting access to it. Similar devices include sensitive email account. information that must be restricted to authorized personnel only. Employees using Fransabank computers shall consider the sensitivity of the information and use them responsibly. Clean Desk Fransabank employees should protect paper documents, Removable Media mass storage devices, and optical media by locking them away while leaving for prolonged period of time. Only Fransabank owned removable media devices are allowed for usage and that to prevent the transfer of any virus to Fransabank network. Media Destruction Proper media disposal is necessary to prevent unauthorized Software Installation use after removal from service. Hard copy materials should be shredded on daily basis while electronic devices Software installation is the sole responsibility of the should be destructed as per Fransabank Electronic Media Information and Communication Technology Division. Destruction Procedure. Laptop Acceptable Use Internet Usage Portable devices should be properly protected while in use. Fransabank restricts internet access usage for employees Those devices should not be left unattended. who need it in their daily operations. Non-work related websites are blocked by default. User Password Management Policy User ID and password is granted to employees for accessing systems owned by Fransabank. It is expected to properly protect credentials and keep them away from unauthorized individuals. Complex passwords should be used and changed as per Bank policy. We welcome and value your feedback and suggestions, which help improve our reporting. Contact Mrs. May Rihan Head of CSR Ms. Camille Saadé CSR Analyst Email: csr@fransabank.com. Fransabank Center, Hamra Str. Beirut, Lebanon The environmentally friendly paper used in this report is from sustainable sources and adheres to strict international guidelines for the preservation of the world’s forests and ecosystems. © 2017 All rights reserved.
