WE BELIEVE COLLABORATION SUSTAINS SUCCESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2017 We will be the global law firm of Introduction Doing business People choice for the world’s leading businesses of today and tomorrow. Our Responsible Business Promoting market-shaping Creating a healthy and inclusive strategy: A vision for building practices in relation to ethics, workplace, and broadening our We always strive to exceed a sustainable business standards and risk skills and experience the expectations of our clients, whether from business, Valuing Collaboration Working Together to the Building Our Networks government or the not-for-profit 3 Highest Ethical Standards 15 sector and provide the highest 9 quality service and legal insight. Creating a Culture A Truly International Arbitration of Development We pride ourselves on our Institution 19 approachable, collegial and 10 team-based culture, and the Shining a Light on Gender commitments we make to our Uniting Against Human Parity in MENA people and to the wider world. Trafficking 20 11 Partnering to Promote Integrity 12 CONTENTS Community Environment Our Commitments Widening access to justice, Managing our footprint and Holding ourselves accountable finance and education contributing to developing a and inspiring progress more sustainable world Supporting Our Networks Supporting Transparent Mapping Our Objectives 23 Reporting to the SDGs 31 35 Achieving More When We Work Together Switching Off for Earth Hour Targets and Progress 25 31 38 Widening Access to Finance Partnering to Improve in Spain Energy Efficiency 26 32 Justice For All Collaborating for Clean Energy 27 33 Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, this document may constitute attorney Teaming up to Support advertising. Prior results do not guarantee Sustainable Business a similar outcome. 34 1 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 2 See how our work maps against the UN Sustainable Development Goals on page 36 VALUING “ We are proud to be a participant in the UN Global Compact and to make our contribution.” COLLABORATION Matthew Layton, managing partner An interview with Matthew Layton and Malcolm Sweeting. Why is collaboration important? What is driving our thinking on these important issues? Matthew: A collaborative approach is essential, both to ensuring that we meet our Matthew: Since 2009 we have participated stakeholders’ expectations and to working in the United Nations Global Compact, Global managing partner Matthew Layton The geopolitical landscape is shifting, not stand apart from society; it is embedded with them to create the best outcomes for increasingly seeking to align our strategy and senior partner Malcolm Sweeting perhaps at a faster rate than ever before. in it, contributing to its long-term stability and the greatest number of people. We believe and operations with its 10 Principles. explain why the theme of collaboration Events such as the migration crisis, global prosperity, and acting as a driver for growth that together, by building partnerships based We are also committed to supporting the sits at the heart of the firm’s strategy. terrorism, Brexit, the breaking down of for both present and, importantly, future on finding common objectives and fostering 17 Sustainable Development Goals, which consensus over climate change, the rise generations. Second, it has underlined the trust, we can achieve more. We firmly believe set the big-picture agenda on issues such of populism, and the perception that conviction that no single agency can fix that business has a role, even a duty, to as combating poverty and improving globalisation is not working for everyone, these problems. Collaboration will be an partner with governments, policy makers educational and health opportunities for are creating challenges for policy makers, essential factor in finding solutions to these and civil society to create a development some of the world’s poorest people. You will business and civil society. All of this is hugely difficult issues. agenda that works for everybody. see examples of how we are acting on our happening, of course, against a business SDG commitments throughout this report. backdrop of a decade-long response to the Malcolm: Events over the last two or three financial crisis and the disruption created years have also reinforced, I believe, a In addition, we have signed the Women’s by the 4th Industrial Revolution. widespread perception that power, wealth Empowerment Principles to underpin our and influence are unduly concentrated longstanding commitment to promoting The number and degree of complexity of among a small elite. Our firm will only earn gender equality. These globally-applicable these issues has had two effects. First, it and retain our licence to operate by listening frameworks, together with our own thinking has highlighted the part business needs to intently to what our clients, our people and all and conversations with our stakeholders, play in contributing to the solutions to some our stakeholders are saying, and working are informing our decision-making on the of these pressing challenges. Business does with them to address their concerns. most material issues for our firm. 3 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 4 OUR RESPONSIBLE Malcolm: We are committed to integrating these principles and frameworks further into our decision-making and organisational information security are vital to us and our clients. In addition, we maintain our longstanding commitment to issues BUSINESS STRATEGY behaviour. They offer valuable guidance and such as human rights, access to justice, provide a space for productive discussions access to finance, and promoting the with our clients and wider stakeholders. legal and regulatory frameworks that Doing business As a leadership team, we are looking at uphold the rule of law. It is in such areas, how we can do even more in these areas. working closely with our clients and NGO Strategic focus: We establish and promote market-shaping partners, that we believe we can have the practices in relation to ethics, professional Where do you believe a law firm greatest impact. Our people are strongly standards and risk management. like Clifford Chance can have the motivated to support work in those areas Benefits to clients: greatest impact? where they see they can make a very Service informed and defined by the tangible difference. highest standards of professionalism, Malcolm: While we endorse all 17 of the ethics and risk management. Sustainable Development Goals, it is fair Matthew: Going back to the theme of Benefits to the firm: to say that there are certain areas where collaboration, what is clear is that our clients, Builds trust and confidence in all stakewe believe we can make a bigger difference. who are engaged with exactly the same holders. For more information see page 8. Issues like business ethics, reputation challenges as us, are increasingly looking management, regulatory compliance and to work with organisations that share their > DOING BUSINESS Community COMMUNITY Strategic focus: “ Our people are strongly motivated to We partner to support our People community by widening access support work in those areas where they see Strategic focus: OUR to justice, finance and education. We realise the potential of our people PEOPLE Benefits to clients: they can make a very tangible difference.” by creating a safe, healthy and inclusive Project collaboration workplace, and by broadening our OUR CLIENTS strengthens relationships. Malcolm Sweeting, senior partner skills and experience. Benefits to the firm: Benefits to clients: CIVIL Broadens experience, Better understanding and SOCIETY develops skills. For more information PEOPLE better advice. see page 22. Benefits to the firm: Attract, retain and develop high-quality people. For more information see page 14. > values. Values-based collaboration is an helping our people build resilience, and important and growing trend. widening and developing our talent pool, are incredibly important to the firm. ENVIRONMENT In what sense are we bringing the ‘outside’ in, identifying and addressing We believe ‘difference’ is a powerful asset, Environment societal inequalities where they may but, at the same time, we need to ensure Strategic focus: exist in the firm? that everyone has a voice and enjoys the We manage our footprint and confidence to be the best they can be. contribute to developing a more Matthew: Equality, inclusion and diversity sustainable world. are important business issues for us and for Malcolm: Clearly, as a firm, we recognise Benefits to clients: our clients. We are committed to creating a that we need to be doing more, both in Meet expectations of safe, inclusive workplace where people can making Clifford Chance the best employer environmental sustainability. bring the broadest range of experience, skills it can be, but also in working together Benefits to the firm: and perspectives to find the best solutions with others to address the big issues facing Demonstrates commitment to environmental issues. For more for our clients’ most pressing concerns. us all. These are not easy issues, and it is information see page 30. important that we continually challenge If you take, for instance, SDG 5, we are ourselves to meet the very high standards committed to improving our gender balance that we have set. This Responsible Business in the partnership and, by collaborating with Report and the targets and progress shown other leading organisations, to promoting at the back of the report are an important the role of women in business. Issues such step in being both transparent and as promoting inclusivity and social mobility, accountable in our progress. 5 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 6 DOING BUSINESS We share our clients’ commitment to acting responsibly. We are committed to promoting market-shaping practices in relation to ethics, professional standards and risk management. This means being robust in the way we manage our own risk and compliance, and it also means undertaking client and pro bono work that supports legal and regulatory frameworks, encourages ethical behaviour and builds sustainable, successful economies, always upholding the rule of law. WORKING TOGETHER TO THE A TRULY INTERNATIONAL HIGHEST ETHICAL STANDARDS ARBITRATION INSTITUTION Chris Perrin, executive partner and Ethics underpin the firm’s culture of personal damage that can be inflicted upon their Together with leading arbitration Parties litigating in India face severe delays. government and commerce, with a strong general counsel, and Bahare Heywood, responsibility. We are committed to creating reputation when they fall short of the highest experts, international and domestic According to government figures, in May governing body made up of Indian and head of international compliance, discuss a standard of conduct for all our people that ethical standards. Numerous controversies businesses and the Maharashtra 2017 there were more than 60,000 cases international experts, which could offer local the importance of ethics and how we are goes beyond the letter of the law to its spirit. over recent years have highlighted the risks provincial government, Clifford Chance awaiting trial in the Supreme Court*. There is and global insight. Its arbitral rules needed working with our stakeholders to develop Ethical considerations determine which when an organisation may act lawfully, but helped to develop the Mumbai Centre an obvious need for a credible, international to embody international best practice, while our thinking in this area. organisations the firm is prepared to work steps the wrong side of an ethical line. for International Arbitration (MCIA), alternative to the slow-moving court system, ensuring that its cases were resolved faster for and how we advise our clients. India’s only truly international but until very recently – despite the growing than those in the domestic courts, a crucial We have two important concerns when arbitration institution. trend for parties arbitrating in Singapore or consideration for Indian parties. We know, through ongoing conversations developing the ethical standards by which London – there were no local options. with our clients, that doing business ethically we expect our people to think and act. It was clear that international collaboration is as important to them as it is to us. We In June 2015, Clifford Chance dispute resolution would be key to achieving this goal, so to understand that they want to ‘do the right The first is to create a set of standards that partner Nish Shetty was approached by the help draft the rules, the team appointed thing’ and are deeply conscious of the have global application. Because ethics are, > Maharashtra government to help establish a committee of pre-eminent arbitration an international arbitration centre in Mumbai. practitioners, drawn from India and the rest For the new arbitration centre to be of the world. The committee was co-chaired successful, it had to be independent from by Nish and Vyakpak Desai, an arbitration > We need to debate the issues It was clear that international collaboration would be internally, and with clients, to key to achieving this goal, so to help draft the rules, the bring out contrasting attitudes. team appointed a committee of pre-eminent arbitration practitioners, drawn from India and the rest of the world. > partner at Indian firm Nishith Desai & Partners, worked together to tailor the rules to the and included the former chairs of the ICC needs of the institution, focusing strictly Court of Arbitration and the Singapore on provisions that encourage speed and International Arbitration Centre. Its members efficiency, such as a time limit for the tribunal > in some ways, relative to their cultural setting clients, to bring out contrasting attitudes. to make an award. – something that may be criticised in one Through collaboration with internal and jurisdiction may not draw attention in another external stakeholders, we develop ethical Several members of the drafting committee – it is important that our lawyers always hold training, which recognises that issues are subsequently became members of the MCIA themselves to the highest possible not always straightforward, that responses Council, achieving the balance between standards. This approach has even greater can be coloured by personal opinion, and domestic and international experts. importance in a climate where extra-territorial that those responses can change with time. rules introduced in one jurisdiction require The centre was launched in October 2016 compliance from everyone in the firm. We are developing innovative training that and will host its second annual conference engages and challenges our lawyers on in November this year. The event will attract We are ideally placed to work through thorny ethical issues. The training will leading arbitration practitioners across the these issues and bring awareness of be interactive, fostering discussion and world and explore the changing face of them to clients. As a global firm, we have providing insight. arbitration in India. Reflecting on the an unparalleled exposure to these institution’s development, Nish said: “The differing perceptions. We understand that ethical issues are MCIA heralds a new dawn for international difficult; sometimes there are no simple arbitration in India. I am truly hopeful that it The second consideration is how best to answers. Our aim is to equip our lawyers will bring great benefits in terms of foreign keep a live understanding of ethical issues at to judge what is right and find the courage investment, interesting work for Indian the forefront of our people’s minds. We need to act on their decisions, and to help our arbitrators and counsel, and a far more to debate the issues internally, and with clients do the same. *Source: Supreme Court of India efficient and timely resolution of disputes.” 9 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 10 UNITING AGAINST PARTNERING TO HUMAN TRAFFICKING PROMOTE INTEGRITY Together with Liberty Asia, Clifford Liberty Asia works with NGOs, corporates In March 2017, associates Michael Weaver Together with Citi, we are helping tech Clifford Chance is a strategic ally of Citi’s Alongside other strategic allies, including Chance lawyers in Hong Kong are and financial institutions to combat human and Nicholas Turner partnered with developers from around the world to Tech for Integrity Challenge, a global open Facebook, IBM and Mastercard, we are working to eradicate modern slavery trafficking through law and the use of Liberty Asia to produce a high-level report develop breakthrough solutions that innovation competition that encouraged volunteering legal expertise on topics such and human trafficking. technology. Clifford Chance shares these comparing anti-money laundering (AML) promote integrity and fight corruption. technology innovators from around the world as financial crime and financial regulation as goals; we are committed to providing legislation and reporting requirements for to create cutting-edge solutions to increase part of a virtual accelerator programme to strategic pro bono advice that promotes suspicious transactions in 18 jurisdictions, transparency and accountability, promote help participants enhance their competition peace, justice and strong institutions for including Australia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, integrity and fight corruption, a major cause submissions. We are also providing tailored the rule of law. We have collaborated with Singapore, Thailand, the UK and the US. of inequality and injustice worldwide. advice and legal and regulatory training for Liberty Asia since its foundation in 2013, Suspicious transaction reporting by financial selected finalists. providing legal expertise in support of our institutions enables law enforcement to The challenge focused on innovations that shared objectives. identify and take action against human enable governments to better manage a Colleagues across multiple offices have trafficking enterprises. > range of processes, including detecting and joined forces to support the initiative. In blocking illicit payments, protecting financial March 2017, we hosted a successful launch data and helping deliver aid to poor or event in London, with panel discussions crisis-hit regions. on current and future risks to the financial ecosystem, and the utilisation of technology > Contributing to sustainable economic growth is a vital part of Clifford Chance’s commitment to being a responsible business. Komal Raina Desaraju, Brian Harley and Jamie Andrew at a Tech for Integrity > to tackle threats. We have helped to deliver Challenge event in Dublin an international education programme, including webinars on legal and regulatory considerations in Asia Pacific and Europe, conducting business in Africa and the Americas, fintech in the Middle East and global private procurement. Our people have > The report shines a light on the variety through suspicious activity reporting. The also served as judges for the competition ¥ € $ of approaches in Asia, Europe and North presentation, ‘Breaking the chains of in Abu Dhabi, Dublin and Singapore. America, and demonstrates the need slavery in Asia through stronger AML rules’, for increased consistency across Asian expanded on the themes identified in their Contributing to sustainable economic jurisdictions. It also highlights the importance AML report. growth is a vital part of Clifford Chance’s of clear guidance for financial institutions commitment to being a responsible to increase understanding of reporting Archana Kotecha, head of legal at business. Partner André Duminy said: requirements and human trafficking “red flags”. Liberty Asia, said: “Our partnership with “Helping to protect the integrity of large parts Clifford Chance has been invaluable of the financial services sector has been one Nicholas Turner, Michael Weaver To this end, Michael and Nicholas have in understanding the interface of AML of our key roles as a firm, and we see this and Archana Kotecha teamed up with Liberty Asia to raise legislation and human trafficking activities initiative as building on that long history. The awareness through events and training. across a range of jurisdictions. We continue developments in how firms and customers Together, they have provided a number of to partner with Clifford Chance to progress operate, in a heavily regulated sector that seminars on the UK Modern Slavery Act to the awareness and understanding of is being disrupted by new technology, has banking clients, and recently co-hosted a trafficking as a crime of many crimes and the ability to positively change everything well-attended presentation on the crucial role firmly believe that our joint efforts have for everyone. This initiative is building played by financial institutions and AML resulted in a greater awareness and solutions that will make the future safer regulators in combating human trafficking understanding of the issue in HK and beyond.” and more secure.” 11 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 12 PEOPLE We are committed to realising the potential Our focus on inclusivity, development of our people. We believe that the best and wellbeing enables us to deliver better teams are diverse and inclusive, and that understanding and better advice to our people flourish in an environment where they clients, and ensures that we continue are supported in expanding their careers to attract, retain and develop the highest and developing their resilience. quality people. BUILDING OUR NETWORKS Our networks play an important role in Matt Fairclough, Asia Pacific partner for common interest and shared values, and by partner Melissa Fogarty, herself a their experiences to inspire and guide the supporting our strategy of building an LGBT+ network Arcus explained: “Networks they have a vital role in influencing decisionvolunteer role model for those considering next generation. inclusive workplace. in the firm demonstrate our commitment to making and shaping the future agenda on the ‘path to partnership’. building an inclusive and supportive culture key issues. Networks are important agents In December, partner Jenni Hill spoke at that recognises we will be more successful of change.” Our people often act as role models in an the Perth Women in Leadership Summit on and confident when we act together. external, as well as an internal, capacity. For the topic of ‘Accelerating the conversation example, earlier this year, women’s network – Fostering female talent to become women “Networks, both internal and with clients and Role models members from around the firm came leaders of the future’. In Singapore, Melissa external stakeholders, play an important role together with GCs in our alumni network Ng took part in a panel discussion in the success of Clifford Chance. They bring Our networks play a vital part in ensuring and The Legal 500 to produce ‘Advice considering the role of gender diversity people together and help them to achieve a that we have a diverse range of role models to my younger self’, a series of interviews in creating successful boards, organised greater impact than they could accomplish at the firm to inspire and mentor our people, in which successful senior women lawyers by the Singapore Institute of Management on their own. They build communities of whatever their aspirations or background. > reflected on their career journeys and shared Global Education Industry Forum. >> London Women’s Network International Women’s Day event Our networks play a vital part in > Our Asian and Pacific Islanders Subcommittee in the US, which was first formed >> Focusing on inclusivity man, to give a lunchtime talk about trans issues for transgender and gender-variant ensuring that we have a diverse range in 2005, has adopted a new focus to encourage, in particular, first-year associates The firm is committed to building a best team culture based upon inclusivity and benefiting people of faith in the UK. of role models at the firm to inspire to build their peer networks so they can take from a richness of views from a diverse range In the US, our Arcus and Black & Latino and mentor our people. the next step in their careers. of backgrounds. Several of our networks groups organised a visit to El Museo del have collaborated on initiatives exploring Barrio in New York to view an exhibition As well as putting on events for members intersectional identities – identities that of drawings, photographs and illustrations to exchange career experiences and build overlap a number of diversity characteristics. by the renowned Puerto Rican fashion informal mentoring relationships, our artist Antonio Lopez. The tour included Washington D.C. office is partnering with In May, our Arcus network group for LGBT+ a discussion on the artist’s exploration the Asian Pacific American Bar Association colleagues organised a lunch and learn of race, gender and the body. Educational Fund to promote diverse role event for London employees exploring the models for student lawyers of Asian and Pacific issue of mental health among the LGBT+ Acting as allies to all of our colleagues is Island origin, thereby encouraging the next community. The event, which was held in equally important to us. In April, our New generation of lawyers from these communities. association with Stonewall, Mind and Credit York office hosted an allies-themed event Suisse’s Mental Health Awareness Group, with Todd Sears, the founder of Out Our London Women’s Network launched its was part of a series organised by Arcus on Leadership, a strategic advisory firm which role models network as part of celebrations the theme of multiple identities. works to extend equality for LGBT+ people for International Women’s Day in March this worldwide. Todd spoke with our US partners year. About 80 women and men of different In collaboration with the firm’s Jewish about diversity generally, its importance to ages, backgrounds and seniorities Society and Islamic Community, Arcus our clients and the role that allies can play in attended the event, which was opened invited Surat-Shaan Knan, a Jewish trans promoting a more inclusive culture at work. 15 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 16 We are proud that our people are regularly recognised for their contribution to diversity... We are proud that our people are Learning with peers >> In Amsterdam, we hosted a session on Offering career support regularly recognised for their contribution gender diversity with Dr Paola Cecchito diversity. Our global managing Networks offer invaluable opportunities Dimeglio, Chair of the Executive Leadership Clifford Chance is taking a leading role in partner Matthew Layton features for individuals to learn from each other. Research Initiative for Women and Minorities an initiative to build community and create on the 2016 OUTstanding Leading Ally Attorneys at the Center for the Legal networks for veterans entering legal practice Executives List presented by the Financial Our London BME Network has introduced Profession at Harvard Law School, who writes in the US. Times, and our Amsterdam managing a three-part coaching programme for and speaks about diversity and diversifying partner, Jeroen Ouwehand, was its members and is organising a training the next generation of leaders. She will be CliffVets was founded at the end of 2016 honoured as Most Effective Ally at the event for the firm’s senior management to working closely with the Amsterdam office by Tim Cornell, a partner in our Washington Workplace Pride 2016 Autumn Ball increase awareness and understanding of during the upcoming months to improve its D.C. office and former US Navy officer, Ben Leadership Awards. BME issues. > performance in the area of gender diversity. Lee, an associate in New York and former >>> We believe that veteran attorneys bring a unique skill-set that aligns with the firm’s values of client service. ...Our global managing partner, >>> US Army officer, and Philip Lockwood, an associate in Washington D.C. and a veteran attorneys translate their serviceskills to large firms and to civilian attorneys Matthew Layton, features on the 2016 Canadian Armed Forces non-commissioned looking to understand the value-add of OUTstanding Leading Ally Executives officer. It is supporting the National veteran attorneys. Lastly, we realise there Federation of Law Student Veterans and is a tremendous interest in Clifford Chance List presented by the Financial Times. sponsoring key events, such as the first Veterans Conference for T14 (top 14) law to participate in veteran-related pro bono activities and we wanted to help co-ordinate schools, which took place in June 2016. some of those efforts.” The Federation aims to unite the dozens of student veteran groups across law campuses > Co-founder Chinwe Odimba-Chapman is Our networks often collaborate with other in the United States to enable junior committed to encouraging community and leading organisations to bring outside ideas lawyers to build career networks, develop advocacy. She explained: “Roy Appiah in. Our Hong Kong Women’s Network employment connections, and encourage and I co-founded the network because we partnered with the legal team at a leading pro bono work on behalf of veterans. believe we need a forum for BME employees global investment bank on two Rising Female to exchange ideas, raise awareness and Lawyers events, including hosting a roundtable On CliffVets and its initiatives, Philip said: influence the firm’s policy and agenda at all discussion for about 25 senior women on “First, and most important, we believe that levels of the London office. It has provided challenges faced by millennials in the veteran attorneys bring a unique skill-set that invaluable opportunities for BME employees workplace. Participants shared thoughts, ideas aligns with the firm’s values of client service. to network internally and with external and solutions on such topics as career Second, we want Clifford Chance to BME networks.” development and achieving a work-life balance. >> participate in the conversation of helping 17 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 18 CREATING A CULTURE SHINING A LIGHT ON OF DEVELOPMENT GENDER PARITY IN MENA Together with colleagues, clients and Our Singapore office is expanding collaboration with clients and colleagues Working with local counsel across 16 As a signatory of the Women’s The results presented a complex picture. All local lawyers, we are creating a multisignificantly, as it reinforces its position as from Singapore and across the region. jurisdictions in the Middle East and North Empowerment Principles, Clifford Chance countries surveyed had either acceded to or layered training programme focusing a hub for work across South East Asia, with Africa (MENA) region, we carried out is committed to empowering women in ratified (with certain notable reservations) on our Singapore hub. the number of partners doubling over the A cornerstone of the programme is crossa pro bono legal research project into business and in the community. With the UN Convention on the Elimination of All past five years. To equip our people with practice sessions, which create a forum constitutional, employment and social a focus on increasing access to justice Forms of Discrimination Against Women. the confidence and skills they need to for exchanging perspectives and building laws applicable to women in the workplace. and economic empowerment, the report succeed in this dynamic and fast-moving internal networks. Another priority is bringing considered workplace laws in Algeria, In addition, most countries have provisions geography, we have been growing our outside voices in through regular sector Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, guaranteeing equality and non-discrimination regional training offering. Partners Paul training, where clients talk to our people Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, for all citizens, and specifically nonLandless and Andrew Hutchins are playing about the challenges and opportunities Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, the United discrimination on the basis of gender, in a leading role in driving the initiative in they see in the market. > Arab Emirates and Yemen. the relevant constitutions. However, in a > Cross-practice sessions create a forum for exchanging perspectives and building internal networks. > number of instances, different domestic laws especially at senior levels, and considered continue to be applied to men and women the role of individuals, corporates and other > Paul explained: “We wanted to get people new joiner induction academy, we make in the workplace and in relation to access organisations in achieving gender parity. into a room together to foster a sense of sure every associate in our team has a to justice. collegiality to help us connect across different speaking slot. We want to encourage a The panel consisted of Her Excellency teams. One important aspect is providing culture of development, where being good And where legal protections for women exist, Shamsa Saleh, Secretary General of UAE associates with opportunities to present, means being inquisitive.” it is unclear whether these rights are being Gender Balance Council, and CEO of which has definitely boosted confidence preserved in practice. For instance, certain Dubai Women Establishment; Lubna and satisfaction levels. It also helps embed An excellent example of this approach in jurisdictions maintain restrictions on travel Qassim, Executive Vice President, Chief the message that lawyers are not just here action is the recent finance and capital and, for married women, the requirement Group General Counsel & Company to give legal advice; you need broader skills markets induction training, which was of a husband’s consent to work. Secretary, Emirates NBD; Bruce McAlister, and the confidence to share your ideas.” delivered by Clifford Chance associates and General Counsel, GE Global Growth; attended not only by our own trainees and The results of the report were shared at a Margaux Constantin, Associate Principal, Andrew agreed: “Putting in place a more associates, but also by colleagues from panel discussion hosted by the firm in Dubai McKinsey & Company; and Dr. Charlotte formal training structure has helped to other offices, junior members of client legal to mark International Women’s Day on 8 Karam, Associate Dean of Programs, ingrain the idea that being a lawyer is about teams and lawyers from leading domestic March this year. The event explored the Director of the KIP project, Olayan School more than desk work. For example, at each firms in South East Asia. barriers to gender balance in the workplace, of Business, American University of Beirut. 19 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 20 COMMUNITY We partner to support the communities in which we operate. We undertake pro bono and community outreach programmes that strengthen the capabilities and build the capacity of the local community-based organisations and strategic NGO partners we work with. We partner to support our communities to widen access to justice, finance and education. “ We have been able to provide SUPPORTING employees with regular updates OUR NETWORKS on the impact the firm’s support is making for children.” With our people, our clients and our NGO In 2016, global managing partner Matthew chosen charities, receive news bulletins >> strikes. For example, since Save the Children To further build the capacity of these partners we are creating new ways to Layton invited everyone in the firm to sign and details about supporter events, and launched a search and rescue vessel in the networks, we are looking at ways to gain work together to make a positive impact up to join the supporters’ network of one offer their expertise and skills to support Mediterranean in 2016, we have been able the involvement of our clients. In December in the areas of widening access to justice, or more of our 18 global NGO partners, an NGO they are interested in. Since we to provide employees with regular updates last year, we invited lawyers at one of our finance and education. including organisations promoting human launched the platform in June last year, more on the impact the firm’s support is making leading banking clients to join the networks rights, children’s charities, and those looking than 600 people across the firm have joined for children, sharing news of successful with a presentation at one of their town halls. to alleviate poverty in developing countries. at least one network. missions as they happen.” Pro bono and Since then, 19 lawyers have signed up to financial donations from the Clifford Chance four networks and we have collaborated on By means of an online platform, with We believe these networks are a valuable Foundation supported Save the Children to a project for Fair Trials to identify remedies dedicated sites for each of the NGOs, tool in increasing the capacity of our NGO procure, equip, and launch the Vos Hestia across the EU for people held unlawfully supporters can learn more about their partners. Key projects on which we have > Search and Rescue Vessel. in pre-trial detention. >>> Since we launched the platform in > collaborated this year include freedom of expression in UK universities with Index on >>> Tokyo-based associate Jack Oakley, who is part of the core relationship team working June last year, more than 600 people Censorship, universal jurisdiction and the prosecution of Syrian war criminals with with Opportunity International, highlights the value of the networks: “The supporters’ across the firm have joined at least Human Rights Watch, and a strategy review portal has allowed lawyers from different one network. with Hope and Homes for Children. We have offices within the firm to establish stronger also developed three-way collaboration with connections by collaborating on pro bono Fair Trials and the Institute for Criminal Policy work with multi-jurisdictional elements. For Research to consider what makes effective example, the firm’s Sydney, Jakarta and New penal policy across 10 jurisdictions. York offices are advising OI in relation to the establishment of a microfinance debt fund, Isla Perry, Partnership Manager at Save which will be used to provide small loans to the Children, endorses the initiative: “The people living in poverty who lack access supporters’ network provides a fantastic to mainstream financial services. Similar opportunity to connect with Clifford Chance inter-office collaboration is happening in the employees directly. The network proves firm’s Perth, London and Continental Europe particularly critical when an emergency >> offices on behalf of Opportunity International.” 23 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 24 ACHIEVING MORE WHEN WIDENING ACCESS WE WORK TOGETHER TO FINANCE IN SPAIN Together with City lawyers, NGOs and Its current focus is on the role that lawyers It was co-founded following the 2004 Playing our part to widen access to Microfinance gives people access to small implementation of the microfinance sector academics, we are supporting Advocates can play in supporting the SDGs and, in Indonesian Tsunami by lawyers from finance in the communities in which we loans and other financial services, such as to help citizens become economically for International Development in the fight particular, SDG 16, which involves promoting a number of firms, including Clifford operate. We use the resources of the saving schemes and insurance, which have independent. against poverty. the rule of law, both nationally and Chance partners Roger Leese and Jessica firm, including providing financial legal been traditionally denied to them, and fosters internationally, including equal access to Gladstone (then at Linklaters), with the advice, to promote financial sustainability financial inclusion and entrepreneurship. Our microfinance group is working to justice for all. As part of this focus, Clifford aim of building a network of 1,000 for those in poverty, particularly in the promote the creation of a regulatory Chance is collaborating with a number of law peers supporting development and refield of microfinance. In Spain, which has been subject to high levels framework that strengthens legal certainty firms, NGOs and academics to produce a construction. The project gained momentum of unemployment since the financial crisis, and guarantees access to European funds guide on the role of law in achieving the SDGs. and eventually became A4ID as it operates we have been leading the development and for those who have difficulties accessing today – a fully established charity with basic financial services. Advocates for International Development an executive structure and full-time staff (A4ID) is an excellent example of what can dedicated to involving lawyers in the fight Our team has advised on the formation be achieved when lawyers work together. against poverty. > of the Spanish Microfinance Association, the principal voice for the sector in Spain, > Advocates for International Development is an excellent Our team has advised on the example of what can be achieved when lawyers work formation of the Spanish Microfinance together. Hundreds of charities are now partners of A4ID, Association, the principal voice for the and thousands of lawyers are part of its growing network. sector in Spain. > and we are also working with the Spanish Government to establish a microfinance law to regulate the sector in Spain and > A4ID has three strands to its approach: it give more legal certainty to those involved. speaks up for the role that lawyers can play in international development through In addition, Clifford Chance has played a key ground-breaking thought leadership; it acts role in the incorporation and development as a talent brokerage, connecting charities of the first microfinance entity in Spain, and agencies to lawyers with the skills and Fundación Oportunitas, created in 2016. experience required for particular tasks; and, finally, it develops education programmes Fundación Oportunitas brings together a for lawyers focused on business and human network of social enterprises, institutions and rights, international development, modern companies, to provide microloans to people slavery, trade, finance, aid and the rule of law. who cannot access traditional bank finance. In addition, it offers training and supports its Hundreds of charities are now partners of users in their professional development. A4ID, and thousands of lawyers are part of its growing network. Many of its members Clifford Chance advised Fundación are working on pressing issues, which range Oportunitas during its incorporation process from addressing the legal aspects of setting and is currently advising the entity on the up charitable and NGO entities to helping modification of its initial foundational structure resolve travel issues for charities and to enable access by long-term investors. reviewing reports ahead of publication Spanish banks and other Spanish social funds to manage risk. have shown a keen interest in this project. 25 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 26 JUSTICE FOR ALL Together with the world’s leading NGOs, We participate in a wide range of schemes and oldest non-governmental organisations >> activities of UNHCR on a pro bono basis prohibiting refugees from working woman married to a Pakistani refugee we are working to widen access to justice that give access to legal advice and in Poland. Together, we have brought a across the region. We are the only or volunteering in Hong Kong, with both to move to Ireland after the UNHCR was for all. representation to those who cannot pay for number of milestone cases concerning international law firm providing such support. employees and employers liable for unable to find a suitable solution. it. Our pro bono clients in this area range human rights protection. violations, constitutes “inhuman and from individuals to NGOs fighting human At a ‘lunch and learn’ session in our Hong degrading treatment” under the Hong Our New York practice has fostered a rights and civil liberties cases in court, and Marcin Ciemiński, Monika Diehl and Paweł Kong office, our lawyers and the bank’s Kong Bill of Rights. decade-long partnership with My Sisters’ undertaking advocacy and delivering Pogorzelski are representing the so-called legal team looked at the rights to asylum Place (MSP), an organisation which works frontline services. ‘unappointed judges’ in proceedings of people entering Hong Kong (the special We also help UNHCR on an ad hoc basis, to end violence in domestic relationships before the European Court of Human administrative region is not a signatory to with some of its more intractable cases. and to fight human trafficking on women, Our Warsaw office has been co-operating for Rights (ECHR). The case, which examines the Refugee Convention 1951, even though For example, trainee Cecilia Chung and men and children. America’s regional 10 years with the Helsinki Foundation for whether it is the President’s obligation or both China and Macau are signatories). associate Michael Weaver successfully managing partner Evan Cohen is a member Human Rights (HFHR) – one of the largest right to appoint a judge, is one of the > Another area of focus is whether a law assisted in an application for a British of the Board of Directors of My Sisters’ Place. >>> We participate in a wide range of schemes that give ...range from individuals to NGOs fighting human access to legal advice and representation to those who rights and civil liberties cases in court, and undertaking cannot pay for it. Our pro bono clients in this area... advocacy and delivering frontline services. > most demanding cases to have been >>> The firm funds a full-time legal Fellow who, conducted within the HFHR’s Strategic in addition to providing direct client services, Litigation Programme. offers pro bono training and supervision to lawyers at the firm. A summer programme Sylwia Gregorczyk-Abram recently achieved allows our junior lawyers to participate in success in a challenging human rights case formal training with MSP and to work on concerning compulsory hospitalisation, securing a range of pro bono cases. the liberty of a person with a mental disability. She also acted pro bono for the applicants in An exciting development has been our an ECHR case concerning the breaking up recent collaboration with our client XL Catlin. of a Roma camp by the local authorities. The first collaboration in a series of pro bono initiatives began in the spring of 2016 when Sylwia is also co-ordinator of the project Fellow Anne O’Grady trained XL Catlin ‘Advocates at the Border’, a joint initiative lawyers on a range of immigration issues. by Polish advocates and NGOs helping This initiative has been repeated in 2017. Chechen families with pro bono assistance Following our introduction, XL Catlin, which in applying for asylum in Poland at the border has offices near to MSP’s base in town of Terespol. Westchester County, NY, is deepening its own ties with the charity. Advocates at the Border In Hong Kong, we are partnering with an international bank to jointly support the >> 27 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 28 2013 ENVIRONMENT 2018 We collaborate with colleagues and other organisations to manage our environmental footprint and contribute to developing a more sustainable world. This means taking a proactive, global approach to measuring and reducing our consumption, working with our suppliers to understand the true scale of our impact and sharing our environmental legal expertise with clients and NGOs. SUPPORTING PARTNERING TO IMPROVE TRANSPARENT REPORTING ENERGY EFFICIENCY Together, we are supporting transparency All of our offices are dedicated to managing This year, for the first time, we are partnering Together with environmental experts, we In London, we are working with Carbon by preparing our environmental data for their environmental footprint. Some do this with consultancy Carbon Credentials to are reducing our footprint in Canary Wharf. Credentials on a Collaborative Asset external verification. through technical improvements to their provide independent verification of the data Performance Programme (CAPP) for our buildings. Others, where we are tenants, collected in London, with the intention of office in 10 Upper Bank Street, Canary reduce their consumption through practical rolling out a global process in future years. Wharf. CAPPs use technology and employee measures, such as switching off equipment This will involve analysing the available electricity, engagement to identify easy, economical not in use and participating in energy-saving gas, water, paper, waste, travel and courier changes that will increase the environmental initiatives like Earth Hour. mileage consumption from every office in the efficiency of building management systems. firm to confirm its accuracy and consistency. Our commitment is underpinned by a Over the past two years, the office has transparent reporting process, whereby External verification is a key step forward in seen a significant reduction in energy every office submits its environmental supporting the transparency of our reporting consumption. This is partly due to data to be examined and aggregated. and thereby developing our strategy for manimprovements made to equipment Information about our firm-wide progress aging our footprint. It means that we can take and processes, but is also a result of is published annually in our Responsible proactive steps to continue reducing our impact, a temporary fall in the number of occupants. Business Report. confident in the data informing our decisions. With the arrival of additional tenants on our The facilities team is SWITCHING OFF committed to finding innovative ways to continue FOR EARTH HOUR reducing consumption. Together, more of our offices than 25 March 2017 was the 10th anniversary of Clifford Chance takes part in Earth Hour sublet floors, the London facilities team is ever before switched off their lights the World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour – the every year, as part of our commitment to committed to finding innovative ways to to celebrate Earth Hour. world’s largest demonstration of support for reducing our environmental footprint. This continue reducing consumption. action on climate change. From the Sydney year, 27 of our offices switched off – our Opera House to the Eiffel Tower, cities, towns highest number ever. We were pleased to The team began with a deep-dive audit of and communities across the world switched collaborate with landlords and tenants in our building management system in early off their lights for an hour to show they care many of our shared buildings to achieve 2017, using data acquisition technology to about the future of the planet. this record level of participation. collect information on the functioning of our building plant equipment. The audit revealed multiple opportunities for saving energy; for example, by recalibrating our air conditioning systems so they are more We were pleased to collaborate closely aligned to seasonal changes and with landlords and tenants in many core business hours. The total potential energy savings uncovered add up to a 5% of our shared buildings to achieve reduction in consumption. this record level of participation. The team is continuing to invest in software and equipment to realise the full savings identified by the audit, working closely with colleagues, tenants and external consultants to make substantial, positive changes. 31 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 32 COLLABORATING TEAMING UP TO SUPPORT FOR CLEAN ENERGY SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Together with strategic pro bono FINCA is a microfinance institution that power are often expensive and polluting, Together with ING, Atkins Acuity, SFC Asia is a collaborative funding Clifford Chance is committed to helping client FINCA International, we are supports more than 1.8 million communityand can have a significant impact on the Credit Suisse, FMO, Sustainalytics and platform, established by a group of develop a more sustainable world by working to promote affordable and level entrepreneurs around the world. Its goal wellbeing of those forced to rely on the UNDP-UN Social Impact Fund, we leading financial institutions in partnership promoting responsible consumption and clean energy solutions. is to reduce poverty by helping people in them. FINCA provides capital to social are providing advice and support to with expert advisers on law, sustainability, clean energy. We are proud to sponsor remote and rural areas to grow their assets, entrepreneurs who have created affordable Sustainable Finance Collective Asia. and energy and infrastructure. Its mission SFC Asia and have joined its expert panel, create employment opportunities and and clean energy solutions for people that is to fund projects which advance one providing pro bono legal and strategic improve living standards. FINCA’s work has live on less than US$4 a day. of three key themes: sustainable energy, advice to new developers. demonstrated the power of market-based positive social impact and circular solutions to solve development challenges. We are proud to help FINCA with this work economy (the development and use of The platform, which launched at the by contributing transactional expertise and regenerative products). Responsible Business Forum on Sustainable > Millions of people in the developing world live experience in the sustainable investment without electricity. Alternative sources of sector. We recently provided pro bono > The Amped US$50 solar system can Together with ING, Atkins Acuity, power three lights, a radio and a fan Credit Suisse, FMO, Sustainalytics and – allowing FINCA’s clients to use it to the UNDP-UN Social Impact Fund, we run their businesses in the evening and are providing advice and support to enable their children to study at night. Sustainable Finance Collective Asia. > advice on its seed round investment in Ami Dalal, FINCA’s Vice President for Social > Development in November 2016, is the Amped Innovation, a clean technology Enterprise Innovation, said: first of its type in the region. It is able to start-up that is developing affordable off-grid offer developers a range of finance renewable energy solutions, in particular “For more than 30 years, FINCA has been options, including debt, equity, mezzanine, small-scale generators, for developinga force for economic inclusion for the poor. guarantees, currency and commercial covers. country markets. The team was led by our We are using our experience in low-income Another innovative feature is SFC Asia’s associate, Martin Menski, and involved markets to expand beyond microfinance panel of experts. The panel provides finance and IP lawyers from Washington to support innovative solutions across environmental, technical and social impact and New York. the energy, healthcare, and education expertise to help businesses increase their sectors, partnering with the next generation sustainability and qualify for funding. The investment is an important step forward of social enterprises. Clifford Chance is an for FINCA’s clean energy strategy. As well as important partner in furthering our mission Clifford Chance is working closely with leading providing start-up capital to Amped, FINCA of poverty alleviation. Their leadership and organisations in the financial, energy and will make responsible loans to customers counsel on FINCA’s investment in Amped sustainability sectors to support the initiative. to buy products like the Amped US$50 solar Innovation was invaluable.” system, which can power three lights, a radio and a fan. FINCA’s clients use the solar system to run their businesses in the evening, enable their children to study at night and offer evening classes in schools. 33 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 34 OUR COMMITMENTS Importance to SDG No. / Goal Key objectives for Clifford Chance Clifford Chance 1 – No poverty Medium Embed a consistent, firm-wide culture of individual responsibility for We are working to align our strategies, and assists us in identifying opportunities for where we need to put our focus, in Risk Management. End poverty in all its forms everywhere operations and organisational culture with to make a positive impact on the world. addition to maintaining ongoing programmes. Equip our people with the training and support to do the right thing, the Sustainable Development Goals, the UN This report contains a number of examples We have prepared a Global Reporting in the right way. Global Compact Ten Principles and the of our work in support of our commitments. Initiative index to support our reporting. Support external initiatives which promote responsible and ethical Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs). This index is published on our website. It business practices. Engagement with these globally-applicable We aim to report transparently on our targets focuses on those indicators which we believe frameworks shapes our approach to doing and progress. To ensure our activity supports are most material to our business, based Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community outreach programmes across the firm. business responsibly our overall goals, we have agreed objectives on discussions with our stakeholders. For Example: Widening access to finance in Spain, page 26 2 – Zero hunger Medium Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community outreach programmes across the firm. End hunger, achieve food security and improve nutrition and promote For Example: Supporting our networks, page 23 sustainable agriculture 4 – Quality education High Improve the alignment of our learning and development programmes MAPPING OUR Ensure inclusive and equitable quality with our vision and strategy. OBJECTIVES education and promote lifelong learning Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community TO THE SDGs opportunities for all outreach programmes across the firm. For Example: Creating a culture of development, page 19 We believe that as a firm we have a strong The contribution that we seek to make in the 5 – Gender equality High Improve the gender balance in our partnership, so that women make record in making a contribution to progress communities around the world where we do up at least 30% of our partnership. Achieve gender equality and empower towards a number of the SDGs, in particular business is particularly aligned with SDGs 4, all women and girls For Example: Shining a light on gender parity in MENA, page 20 goals 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16 and 17 8, 16 and 17 and we will be reporting in detail and we intend to continue to do so through on our contribution towards these goals. 8 – Decent work and economic High Support external initiatives which promote responsible and ethical growth business practices. to 2030. Promote sustained, inclusive and Improve the ethnic diversity of our firm. sustainable economic growth, full Improve the alignment of our learning and development programmes and productive employment and with our vision and strategy. decent work for all Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community DOING BUSINESS outreach programmes across the firm. For Example: Partnering to promote integrity, page 12 10 – Reduced inequalities High Improve the gender balance in our partnership, so that women make up at least 30% of our partnership. Reduce inequality within and among countries Improve the ethnic diversity of our firm. COMMUNITY Improve the alignment of our learning and development programmes with our vision and strategy. OUR Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community PEOPLE outreach programmes across the firm. OUR For Example: Justice for all, page 27 CLIENTS CIVIL 11 – Sustainable cities and High Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community SOCIETY communities outreach programmes across the firm. PEOPLE Make cities and human settlements For Example: Teaming up to support sustainable business, page 34 inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 15 – Life on land Low Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community outreach programmes across the firm. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, UN Sustainable Development Goals and halt and reverse land degradation and ENVIRONMENT halt biodiversity loss – Global targets for 2030 35 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 36 TARGETS AND PROGRESS SDG No. / Goal Materiality Key objectives DOING BUSINESS 2016/17 16 – Peace, justice and strong High Embed a consistent, firm-wide culture of individual responsibility for Risk Management. institutions Equip our people with the training and support to do the right thing, in the right way. Objectives KPIs Progress Promote peaceful and inclusive societies Support external initiatives which promote responsible and ethical business practices. for sustainable development, provide Embed a consistent, firm-wide culture of Hold bi-annual global Office Managing Partner Bi-annual programme established with access to justice for all and build Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community outreach individual responsibility for Risk Management. (OMP) and General Manager risk sessions. strong support. effective, accountable and inclusive programmes across the firm. institutions at all levels Hold annual OMP risk conference. Third OMP full-day risk meeting held, For Example: Widening access to finance in Spain, page 27 with positive feedback. 17 – Partnerships for the goals High Increase focus on work that strengthens the impact made by our pro bono and Hold bi-annual Global MLRO meetings. Bi-annual programme established with community outreach clients. strong support. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for Increase the proportion of our pro bono and community outreach work that is Equip our people with the training and support Update annual ethical training programme. Undertook a full review of our approach to sustainable development undertaken for our global strategic pro bono and community outreach clients. to do the right thing, in the right way. ethical training and piloted an innovative and Increase the proportion of our pro bono and community outreach work that is market-leading new approach. undertaken in the context of client collaboration. Circulate monthly Professional Monthly updates sent out covering areas For Example: Achieving more when we work together, page 26 Standards updates. including dealing in shares and securities, MAR and working with external counsel. Protecting our clients’ confidentiality. Run annual cyber awareness campaign for all Our highest-profile campaign to date ran in employees globally. October 2016 with high levels of engagement. UN GLOBAL Establish network with key clients’ security We are in regular dialogue with clients COMPACT teams to share knowledge and challenges. about information security. More proactive engagement is on hold while we develop our wider client engagement programme. Implement advanced technical controls to Data Leakage Prevention tool rolled out to protect data from loss/theft (e.g. Data Leakage the majority of the firm’s desktops. Trials Prevention). underway to understand its wider application. Support external initiatives which promote Putting in place an anti-slavery policy Anti-slavery policy adopted and published. Our Human rights Environment responsible and ethical business practices. and programme. anti-slavery programme is overseen by a member Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary of the firm’s Compliance team with day-to-day the protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; responsibility for ensuring that we meet our goals. human rights; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 2: and make sure that they are not complicit environmental responsibility; in human rights abuses. Principle 9: and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. DOING BUSINESS 2017/18 Labour Anti-corruption Objectives KPIs Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption association and the effective recognition in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Embed a consistent, firm-wide culture of individual Complete a refresh of our Risk Management Framework, linking risk to the firm’s of the right to collective bargaining; responsibility for Risk Management. strategy and providing a consistent process for managing risk across the firm. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Hold a conference for Compliance colleagues from around the network, Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; providing guidance, training and an opportunity to share best practice. Principle 6: and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Equip our people with the training and support to do the right Roll out innovative and market-leading approach to ethical training. thing, in the right way. Protecting our clients’ confidentiality. Continue to mature our cyber controls to counter the evolving threats against our business and the data we hold on behalf of our clients, including evaluating WOMEN’S The Women’s Empowerment Principles new technologies and solutions. EMPOWERMENT Run annual cyber awareness campaign for all employees globally. PRINCIPLES 1. Establish high-level corporate 5. Implement enterprise development, leadership for gender equality supply chain and marketing practices Review all aspects of the firm’s data management and, in particular, how we 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work that empower women handle personal data, including all processes, to ensure we are compliant with the General Data Protection Regulation and other applicable privacy laws. – respect and support human rights 6. Promote equality through community and nondiscrimination initiatives and advocacy Support external initiatives which promote responsible and Join and actively engage with the Institute of Business Ethics. 3. Ensure the health, safety and wellbeing 7. Measure and publicly report on ethical business practices. of all women and men workers progress to achieve gender equality Increase our understanding of business and human rights by collaborating with A4ID and other civil society organisations in relation to specific programmes in 4. Promote education, training and East Africa and India, and with a particular focus on the extractives industry. professional development for women 37 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 38 COMMUNITY 2016/17 COMMUNITY 2016/17 Objectives KPIs Progress Objectives KPIs Progress Ensure we have active and well-supported pro Establish new ‘NGO Supporters Network’ Networks have been established for all 18 Assess the return on the investment we make Completion of an analysis of: bono and community outreach programmes internally for our global strategic pro bono and global strategic pro bono and community in our communities and identify how we can The number of FTE employees dedicated to 7.2 FTE + 1 apprentice (2015/16: 6.2 FTE + 1 across the firm; ensure a particular focus on community clients; levels of participation in the outreach clients; participation ranges from 7 further scale its impact. the delivery of our pro bono and community apprentice). the US and Africa. Network. people to 249 people. The average network size outreach resource. is 129 people (2015/16: no supporters’ networks). The in-kind and direct financial investment in £28,619,413. Number of significant new pro bono mandates US: 63; Africa: 17. our pro bono and community outreach work. in the US and Africa. The impact achieved by our pro bono and Our investment has enabled: Number of client collaborations. US: 7; Africa: nil. community outreach investment. a) our lawyers to do 63,837.37 pro bono hours, Increase focus on work that a) enhances the The number of our people who are serving on 138 people from 20 offices, sitting on the a 17% increase on 2015/16 capabilities of our people to deliver high-value the boards of not-for-profit organisations. boards of 179 organisations (2015/16: 98 partners b) 182,517 people to be helped mandates and b) strengthens the impact made from 17 offices on the boards of 97 organisations). by our pro bono and community outreach c) an increase in the number of client The number of people who are helped by the 182,517 people helped. clients. collaborations NGOs we work with as a result of our support for them. d) a significant impact to be achieved through our strategic pro bono and community Increase the proportion of our pro bono and Progress towards the target of having 20 We have 18 global strategic pro bono and outreach relationships. community outreach work that is undertaken global strategic pro bono and community community outreach clients (2015/16: 16 global for our global strategic pro bono and outreach clients. strategic pro bono and community outreach clients). community outreach clients. The proportion of our overall funding that goes £650,000/50% of the of the Clifford Chance to our global strategic pro bono and Foundation annual funding. community outreach clients. COMMUNITY 2017/18 The proportion of all the pro bono work done 6.26%. by our lawyers and business services that is undertaken for our global strategic pro bono Objectives KPIs and community outreach clients. Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and community Number of new pro bono mandates in the US and Africa. outreach programmes across the firm; ensure a particular focus on the Increase the proportion of our pro bono and The number of clients with whom we 61 active collaborations with 26 clients; The number of clients with whom we collaborate in the US and Africa. US and Africa. community outreach work that is undertaken collaborate and the number of initiatives ongoing discussions with 6 further clients in the context of client collaboration. with them. about developing collaboration (2015/16: 55 Increase focus on work that a) enhances the capabilities of our people The number of our people who are serving on the boards of not-forcollaborations with 25 clients). to deliver high-value mandates and b) strengthens the impact made by profit organisations. our pro bono and community outreach clients. To further professionalise the team structures The proportion of our pro bono client teams All the global strategic pro bono and The number of people who are helped by the NGOs we work with as through which we deliver our pro bono and that are appropriately constituted and fulfilling community outreach client teams are a result of our support for them. community outreach support. the expectations we have set for service delivery. partner-led, with core teams comprising of The proportion of our pro bono and community outreach mandates, senior associates and business services. We and Clifford Chance Foundation grants, that contribute to the have introduced a formal annual relationship achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. review process, enabling us to capture and action client feedback. Increase the proportion of our pro bono and community outreach work The number of clients with whom we collaborate. that is undertaken in the context of client collaboration. To improve our understanding of the Completion of a consultation process with Completed in London. contribution our pro bono and community practice areas in order to identify the skills To improve our understanding of the contribution our pro bono and The number and size of mandates where skills enhancement is outreach work can make towards the their lawyers need to acquire to become more community outreach work can make towards the development of recognised as one of the returns and the number of people involved development of our people. effective and well rounded. our people. in those mandates. Assess the return on the investment we make in our communities The in-kind and direct financial investment in our pro bono and and identify how we can further scale its impact. community outreach work. The number of people who are helped by the NGOs we work with as a result of our support for them. 39 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 40 PEOPLE 2016/17 ENVIRONMENT 2016/17 Objectives KPIs Progress Objectives KPIs Progress Improve the gender balance in our partnership % of women partners globally and by region. Globally, women now make up 18% of our Reduce our CO2 emissions. Decrease our Scope 1 & 2 (electricity & fuel) Scope 1 & 2 CO2 emissions per FTE have so that women make up at least 30% of our partnership, with APAC at 31% and London CO2 emissions per FTE by at least 5% from decreased by 33.78% from the 2012/13 partnership. at 20%. the 2012/13 baseline by the end of 2017/18. baseline. Improve the ethnic diversity of our firm. Improve partner self-reporting on ethnicity. There has been a small improvement in the Reduce the impact of our paper consumption. Reduce paper consumption by 10% per FTE Paper consumption per FTE has decreased by number of partners self-reporting across our from the 2012/13 baseline by end 2017/18. 10.37% (number of reams per FTE in 2012/13 offices in London and the Americas (1%). was 44.63 compared to 40.00 in 2016/17). Investigate how data on the diversity of our We have considered how best to gather and Every office to ensure that at least 15% of 28 offices state they use either a paper type population can be better collected and more present information on ethnic diversity across paper has at least a 30% post-consumer with a percentage of recycled content or meaningfully collated. the regions in which we operate and will be recycled content or comes from FSC or showing a low carbon footprint (2012/13: 20). proposing a new reporting framework for other internationally-recognised, certified partner promotion in relation to impact on sources showing a low carbon footprint ethnic diversity in the partnership. We plan by end 2017/18. to implement this framework in 2018. Increase levels of recycling within the firm. Every office, where possible, to recycle at 35 offices separate at least 1 and up to 14 least 30% of general waste by 2017/18. types of waste for recycling. Improve the alignment of our learning and Launch the new Learning Management We successfully launched the new Learning development programmes with our vision System. Management System. Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 34 offices are currently meeting the and strategy. 50% of office paper waste by end 2017/18. requirement of recycling paper (2012/13: 32). Review the full suite of programmes currently This review is ongoing. Its findings are reflected provided, including technical, commercial and in our 2017/18 KPIs. soft skills development to ensure they support the firm’s priorities and potential future demand for more agile careers. Support our people in increasing their Global deployment of our Employee We successfully deployed our Employee ENVIRONMENT 2017/18 resilience. Assistance Programme. Assistance Programme globally. Internal awareness-raising programmes Wellness and resilience awareness-raising Objectives KPIs globally about the importance of wellness programmes are now taking place in an Reduce our CO2 emissions. Decrease our Scope 1 & 2 (electricity & fuel) CO2 emissions per FTE and resilience. increased number of offices. We are working to by at least 5% from the 2012/13 baseline by the end of 2017/18. improve inter-office communication in relation Evaluate what we can learn from existing to resilience to improve the co-ordination of Reduce the impact of our paper consumption. Reduce paper consumption by 10% per FTE from the 2012/13 baseline successful programmes and then introduce our approach. by end 2017/18. these programmes in new markets. Every office to ensure that at least 15% of paper has at least a 30% post-consumer recycled content or comes from FSC or other internationally recognised, certified sources showing a low carbon footprint by end 2017/18. PEOPLE 2017/18 Increase levels of recycling within the firm. Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 30% of general waste by 2017/18. Objectives KPIs Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 50% of office paper waste by end 2017/18. Improve the gender balance in our partnership so that women make up Continue to advance towards the 30% gender balance target and at least 30% of our partnership. publicly report progress. Increase the number of gender parity networks within the firm and improve communication between local office networks. Improve the ethnic diversity of our firm. Establish a reporting framework for the impact of partner promotions on ethnic diversity in the partnership. Improve the alignment our learning and development programmes Revise the business and technical skills framework and re-align the with our vision and strategy. appraisal system against the revised skills. Refresh the Career Development Partner mentoring scheme. Support our people in increasing their resilience. Report on the use of the Employee Assistance Programme globally. Continue to embed a more global approach to wellness and resilience awareness-raising programmes. 41 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 42 “We believe that together, by building partnerships based on finding common objectives and fostering trust, we can achieve more.” Matthew Layton, Clifford Chance global managing partner © Clifford Chance, October 2017 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under number OC323571. Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ. Tel: +44 20 7006 1000 We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of equivalent standing and qualifications. Designed by branding agency, The Partners
