Communication on progress un global compact balslev, 2017/2018 content Statement of support for Global Compact 3 Balslev Consulting Engineers 4 The ten principles of Global Compact 5 Human Rights 6 Labour Rights 7 Environment 8 Anti-corruption 9 Case 10 Activities and outcome 2017/2018 11 communication on progress 2 UN global compact 2017/2018 statement of support for global compact As consulting engineers, we are socially responsible for the projects, in which we participate, as well as for the conduct of our company. With our support for the UN Global Compact, we oblige to show social and environmental responsibility and make efforts to integrate the ten principles of Global Compact in our company. On behalf of Balslev Consulting Engineers, I would like to use this communication on progress to confirm our support for the ten principles of Global Compact. This communication on progress includes a description of our efforts to integrate Global Compact in our business strategy, culture and daily actions. The COP report is available on our website. Kind regards, Henrik Rosenberg Appointed CEO Balslev A/S communication on progress 3 UN global compact 2017/2018 balslev consulting engineers since 1939 Balslev is today a full-service supplier with broad expertise and long experience in all common engineering disciplines. We deliver independent consulting services, planning and design as well as project management within all common engineering disciplines such as electrical power, HVAC, Energy, construction, IT & communication as well as automation. Our expertise also comprises innovative, sustainable and profitable solutions within Intelligent Building Automation, energy supply, security and transportation, corrosion protection, hospital planning and energy optimisation. The company was established in 1939 and is still owned 100% by Mogens Balslev’s Foundation. Balslev employs a total of 102 employees at the head office in Glostrup plus departments in Odense, Aalborg, Viborg and Kalundborg. Balslev is member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). communication on progress 4 UN global compact 2017/2018 the ten principles of Global Compact human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. communication on progress 5 UN global compact 2017/2018 Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Code of Conduct In 2013, we developed Balslev’s Code of Conduct, based on the ten principles of Global Compact, outlining how we act towards the surrounding world as a company. The mandatory introduction course for new employees includes lectures in our Code of Conduct and the applicable code of ethics, in order to make them an integrated part of our organisation. Social responsibility Balslev is a socially responsible company, and we are very serious about our contribution to solving common issues. In terms of employment, we have increased focus on reflecting the global society and aim to achieve diversity in terms of ethnicity, educational background, sex, religion, sexuality, age and work ability. We are further involved in the education of new employees within the industry, and have ongoing internships for students and counsellors on bachelor and master level. Our employees are dedicated tutors, assist with dissertations and give lectures and presentations for engineering students. Balslev is owned by Mogens Balslev’s Foundation that provides support for Danish engineering sciences, especially within the areas of education and research. In addition, the foundation supports miscellaneous projects of charitable or non-profit nature and to the benefit of society. Gender distribution: Seniordistribution: 2 years or less 39 % Female 21 % 3 5 years 17 % Male 79 % 6 10 years 14 % 11 years or more 30 % Age distribution: Below 30 years 14 % 30 34 years 5 % 35 39 years 9 % 40 49 years 15 % Above 49 years 54 % communication on progress 6 UN global compact 2017/2018 labour rights Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Introduction day for new employees Balslev believes in the importance of involvement and information about the company, our history, strategy and action plans. Thus, it is crucial that new employees receive a proper introduction to the workplace, and we have therefore established a mandatory introduction day for new employees. During the day, we introduce Balslev as a company, the individual departments and our competencies, as well as procedures and processes. The process is subsequently evaluated. We further develop a personal introduction plan for the first weeks in the company. Project management course for all employees Our employees are our most valuable asset and their knowledge and ability to run projects is vital to our success. Thus, it is essential to maintain a high level of knowledge and as a consequence, Balslev developed a grouped project management course, which was introduced in 2013. Established a formal liaison committee With a total of seven members three from management and four employees the group meets three to four times a year discussing current events. Stress prevention In order to prevent stress among Balslev’s employees, we have chosen to focus on how we as managers and employees become better in detecting stress symptoms before the situation gets critical, and better in handling stress once occurred. As a consequence, we have established a stress coach hotline that is open to all of Balslev’s employees, in case they need professional help for handling situations of emerging stress. The coach can offer instruments to tackle difficult situations and thereby prevent severe cases of stress. Resignation interview and outplacement Balslev has for the past year been focusing on ensuring a proper resignation for employees that are leaving the company. We conduct resignation interviews with all resigned employees, and initiate outplacement programmes in case of dismissal. communication on progress 7 UN global compact 2017/2018 environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our vision is to create the sustainable and intelligent solutions of tomorrow. We observe our vision through the great number of projects in which we play an advisory role. In planning and designing new buildings, installations, plants and infrastructures as well as renewal, Balslev does not only take the requirements of today into account. We do everything possible to ensure that the design has the required flexibility to accommodate future requirements in terms of: • Sustainability • Energy efficiency, hereunder recycling • Environmentally damaging or toxic substances • Recycling after the end of useful life. DGNB Balslev is DGNB certified and our consultant can be part of a building project team and provide guidance on sustainability and direct the focus towards areas that require special attention in order to guarantee sustainable building and DGNB certification. The DGNB system is a certification solution whose purpose is to create a common starting point for measuring and assessing sustainable building. The system is based on a holistic approach and a lifecycle assessment of a building and in that way it weighs a number of dimensions to assess sustainability. Energy optimisation consulting Our energy consultants are committed to optimise energy consumption in large buildings with both simple and more complicated installations. In close co-operation with the users and the owners’ heads of operations or technical departments, we have implemented a very large number of optimisation projects where we achieved significant energy savings with short pay back times. Research projects As consulting engineers, we are responsible for doing all the required research in terms of future energy supply, which is why our employees participate in several research projects within the area of intelligent energy. In 2015 we commenced as partners in the EUDP funded project EnergyLab Nordhavn New Urban Energy Infrastructures. The project will run from 2015-2019 and will serve as an experimental platform a real-life energy laboratory in Nordhavn. Besides the Nordhavn project, Balslev consulting engineers have engaged in the prograss of optimizing the energy consumption and reducing the CO2 outlet of the island of Vejrø. This project started in 2015 and is an ongoing process, using the newest technologies within smartgrid implementation combined with renewable energy sources. communication on progress 8 UN global compact 2017/2018 anti corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Since consultants often change roles, depending on the project, we focus on maintaining our independent approach to the individual project and parties involved. In order to avoid conflicts of interests, Balslev’s employee handbook includes the following rule: „It is not allowed to receive gifts, discounts or the like from company suppliers, business partners or others, unless granted by a superior manager in each single case”. According to our Code of Conduct, Balslev does not tolerate any form of corrupt or fraudulent behaviour. communication on progress 9 UN global compact 2017/2018 ENergylab nordhavn a demonstration of future energy solutions EnergyLab Nordhavn New Urban Energy Infrastructures is a 4-year project funded by the Energy Technology Development and Demonstration Programme (EUDP). The project serves as an experimental platform a real-life energy laboratory in Nordhavn. The project will develop solutions that are crucial in future energy systems. EnergyLab Nordhavn will demonstrate how to integrate electricity and heating systems with energy-efficient buildings and electric transportation in an intelligent, flexible and optimized energy system. This will be done by developing new energy infrastructures and control systems. communication on progress 10 UN global compact 2017/2018 Vejrø Energy project A green transformation The Vejrø Energy project is an ongoing project since 2015 funded by Vejrø ApS. The main task of this project is to optimize the energy consumption of the island and thus reduce the CO2 outlet. This will be accomplished by implementing a smartgrid, based on the gathering of a highly detailed pattern of consumption and substituting the existing power supply with renewable energy sources. The entire island of Vejrø is today powered by two diesel generators, which consumes 146.000 liters of oil each year. By implementing solar panels, wind turbines and batteries as energy storage, combined with the smartgrid control system, it will significantly reduce the usage of the diesel generators or even render them obsolete. communication on progress 11 UN global compact 2017/2018 activities and outcome 2016 human rights In 2017/2018, we will continue to develop corporate diversity and focus on possible imbalances. 1. Increase/maintain the quota of women in the organisation 2. Establish collaboration with an occupational Ph.D. 3. Continue to establish internships throughout the various corporate areas of competencies labour rights 1. Continue our low level of illness 2. Continue to offer project management courses to our employees environment 1. Participate in one development project with the purpose of neutralising CO2 Anti-corruption In 2017/2018, we continue to maintain our independent approach and ensure correct behaviour by means of training, regulation and rebuke. communication on progress 12 UN global compact 2017/2018
