Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 Our year at a glance 04 About this Report 06 Report from the Supervisory Board 08 ­Report from the Executive Board 14 Our impact 20 Our way of working 62­ Annexes 77 3 Our year at a glance 70.5 3.0 €666.0 m Operating result €14 m spent Total expenses €122.3 m on innovation 113.5 219.1 Net turnover €785.3 m 193.8 185.5 Audit R  isk Advisory Tax & Legal FAS Consulting Support / Other 13,750 16 253 4,795 clients served offices partners staff Average headcount Average headcount (excl. internships) >1,300 65.7 new recruits training hours per Personal connection score Quality of Service score employee (on a scale from 0 to 10) (on a scale from 0 to 10) 7.7 7.5 716 approx. 30,000 49 21,752 tonnes Deloitters that hold an children reached through Publicly available reports carbon emissions (CO2) additional position in the Deloitte Impact volunteering or education Foundation since 2012 4 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our year at a glance Total client satisfaction % practice reviews on norm % regulatory reviews that are satisfactory For this KPI, we are in the process of For this KPI, we are in the process of As the external reviews are still ongoing, developing a basis to report this KPI from developing a basis to report this KPI from we cannot report this KPI at present. financial year 2016/2017 on in a manner financial year 2016/2017 on in a manner that it can be supported by evidence and that it can be supported by evidence and audited externally. audited externally. #26 6.9 30 % Employer of choice in relevant Talent engagement score Revenue growth in Corporate ranking (on a scale from 0 to 10) Advisory 45 % 16 % 5.8 % Average profitability in growth areas of revenues from innovative offerings Reduction of overhead as % of total revenue In line with the vision from DTTL, we apply a factor 2 multiplier to calculate the effect from innovative service offerings on regular services Relative position in international network with regard to 89.1 % operational metrics Growth in interfirm revenue and teaming 11 8 5 About this Report This is our first fully Integrated Annual Report. It contains and integrates our separate Annual Report and Sustainability Report for the year ended May 31, 2016. In the prior year, separate versions of these reports were published on July 15, 2015. This Integrated Annual Report contains an overview of our value creation model and related performance, and provides insight into the execution of our strategy in the period June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016. From left to right: Engelhardt Robbe, Peter Bommel, Mario van Vliet 6 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  About this Report I n writing this report, we have endeavoured to build a bridge firms. Like all member firms, Deloitte Holding B.V. is a separate between the mandatory standards applicable to Deloitte for and independent legal entity that provides its services subject to financial reporting, and voluntary standards such as those from applicable local law and regulations. the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our Report starts with the Report from Materiality our Supervisory Board and is followed by a performance focussed In conformity with the standards referred to in this section, we Report from the Executive Board. In the section ‘Our impact’, have defined materiality using input provided by our stakeholders. which is the heart of this Report, we focus on value creation and We provide an overview of this input in ‘Our interactions with on explaining how our Strategy 2020 is enabling us to create value stakeholders’ on page 61 of this Report. for our stakeholders. In ‘Our interactions with stakeholders’ we provide insight into our stakeholder engagement and the results Basis for reporting of this engagement. The section ‘Our way of working’ gives insights We have included the assumptions and data definitions used for into how we are organised, how we guide our policies in ethics and calculating non-financial and strategic KPI’s in Annex 2 on page integrity, and the risks and opportunities we see in the near future 144. KPI’s that are in our opinion self-explanatory or that are based and in the longer term. Our financial statements and disclosures on GRI definitions are omitted from this overview for the sake of are included in Annex 1 while our sustainability performance is conciseness. included in Annex 2. By choosing for this setup, we express our vision and related integrated performance and reporting. We aim Conciseness to discuss this vision with our stakeholders in order to fine-tune In order to meet the criteria of conciseness, we have opted to and evolve our approach in the coming years. provide as much of the statutory required financial information that we deem not material for Integrated Reporting in Annex 1. The This Report has been compiled using the International <IR> same applies to sustainability information that is out of scope in Framework of the IIRC, the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines terms of materiality in the context of Integrated Reporting. Such of the GRI, and NL GAAP for reporting our financial statements. information is provided in Annex 2. Please refer to Annex 1 for the Financial Statements and to Annex 2 for the GRI Reference Table. With regards to sustainability, in Reporting boundaries preparing this Report, we have followed the ‘Comprehensive In There is a significant overlap of issues identified by our internal Accordance’ option that is externally assured by our auditors EY. and external stakeholders. Some of these, especially covering This Report and its annexes also serve as the Communication on employment, diversity, training & education and health & safety, Progress, as prescribed by UN Global Compact, to which Deloitte are a primary focus of our internal stakeholders. However, these Netherlands is a signatory. issues also directly influence the quality and continuity of our services. We therefore conclude that all issues mentioned and Scope their related aspects are material both within and outside our In this Report, Deloitte refers to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and its organisation. fully owned subsidiaries as listed in the ‘Notes to the company financial statements’ in Annex 1. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. was Restatements founded on April 10, 2015. On June 1, 2015 the shareholding There are no restatements compared to the Annual Report and the companies of Deloitte Holding B.V. exchanged their shares in Sustainability Report as issued in previous reporting years. Deloitte Holding B.V. in a membership of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Reliability and completeness As a result of obtaining all the shares of Deloitte Holding B.V., as For the information in scope for GRI we have collected the relevant of June 1, 2015 Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. is the ultimate parent performance data from our business information systems and of Deloitte Holding B.V. and its subsidiaries. Since this merely suppliers as supported by our internal controls system. This was concerns a change in the legal structure on behalf of the ultimate centrally recorded and reviewed by our internal audit department owners of Deloitte Holding B.V. and Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and externally assured by EY on the level of reasonable assurance. respectively, the transaction was accounted for using the pooling The conclusions of EY can be found in their Assurance report in of interests method and the consolidated financial statements of Annex 3. EY also performed an audit on the data tables in our Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. are a continuation of the existing group Transparency Report 2015/2016. of Deloitte Holding B.V. (including comparative information). Comparability In May, 2016, and in accordance with the vote taken by the For financial information that was previously disclosed in our members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and the board of InterNos, Annual Reports, we have included comparative data. The same is Deloitte Holding B.V. became the sole board member of Stichting applicable for non-financial data that was previously published in InterNos and as a consequence, Stichting InterNos has been our Sustainability Reports. For KPIs that were newly developed in consolidated as part of Deloitte. the context of Strategy 2020, we lack comparative data for previous reporting years. Deloitte Holding B.V. is the Netherlands’ member firm of Deloitte Touch Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL). Please refer to www.deloitte. com/about for a detailed description of DTTL and its member 7 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Supervisory Board Report from the Supervisory Board Independent external members constituted the majority of the Supervisory Board of Deloitte Netherlands during financial year 2015/2016. This has been the situation for a large number of years, and the current Chairman is an independent external member. In September 2014 the NBA issued the report ‘In het publiek belang’ that contains a number of measures to be taken by audit firms to restore trust in the profession and improve quality. Deloitte has committed itself to implement all of the recommended measures. This also pertains to the Supervisory Board given that several of these measures relate to the governance structure of the audit firm. 8 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Supervisory Board D uring 2016 Deloitte will adopt a number of changes related move to the Supervisory Board as a whole. to the organisation of the Supervisory Board. These are Due to the great importance of proper risk management and focus mainly as follows: on quality, a new Quality and Risk Committee will be introduced in this financial year (scheduled for October 2016). •• As of October 1, 2016 the Supervisory Board will be fully The Supervisory Board currently comprises seven seats: four for comprised of external members. The three internal members external, independent members and three for internal members. who currently sit on the Supervisory Board will resign on that The internal members are required to be partners of Deloitte date. Netherlands. External members are required to be independent. •• The responsibilities of the Supervisory Board will extend in line Both the internal and the external members are required to with the NBA measures, including its role and responsibility on comply with all the firm’s relevant independence and compliance Executive Board nominations. rules. Members are nominated by the Supervisory Board and appointed by the General Meeting of Members of Coöperatief The Supervisory Board is entrusted with the supervision of the Deloitte U.A. for fixed terms of a maximum of four years. External policies and activities of the Executive Board. In the two-tier members may be reappointed for two additional four-year terms. corporate structure under Dutch corporate law, the Supervisory Internal members may be reappointed for one additional four-year Board is a separate body and independent from the Executive term. Board. There are currently no vacancies in the Board. More information The Supervisory Board comprises an appropriate combination on the individual members of the Supervisory Board is included of knowledge, experience and diversity among its members, below. focused on the multidisciplinary and regulated character of Deloitte Netherlands as a professional services firm, and its Members of the Internal/ End of term public interest responsibilities. With the resignation of the internal Supervisory Board external member Supervisory Board members, new external members with suitable F.G.H. Deckers, Chair external member 2020 qualifications will be appointed. The Supervisory Board aims for a A.J.L.M. van Berkel, Vice-Chair internal member 2019 Board comprising five members. (to resign in October 2016) F.E. Eelkman Rooda external member 2017 The Supervisory Board has assigned, under its responsibility, a S. Kloosterhof internal member 2016 number of its specific tasks to five sub-committees: (to resign in October 2016) C.A.M. Renne internal member 2016 •• Audit Committee (to resign in October 2016) •• Partner Matters Committee J.P. Rijsdijk external member 2017 A.F. van der Touw external member 2016 •• Public Interest Committee (to be resolved as per October 1, 2016; tasks move to Supervisory Board) Audit Committee •• Remuneration Committee F.E. Eelkman Rooda, Chair F.G.H. Deckers •• Selection and Nomination Committee C.A.M. Renne •• Quality and Risk Committee (scheduled to be installed in October 2016) Partner Matters Committee F.G.H. Deckers, Chair The members of the Supervisory Board and the various subS. Kloosterhof committees are listed below. The tasks and activities of the C.A.M. Renne Supervisory Board and the committees are described hereafter in J.P. Rijsdijk more detail. Remuneration Committee The Public Interest Committee was introduced in April 2013 A.F. van der Touw, Chair pursuant to the Governance Code for Audit Firms in the A.J.L.M. van Berkel Netherlands, which was adopted and signed by Deloitte in 2012. F.G.H. Deckers The Public Interest Committee is formed by the independent and external board members only. These external members Selection and Nomination Committee have significant knowledge and an understanding of Deloitte’s J.P. Rijsdijk, Chair organisation and its public environment. As a result of the A.J.L.M. van Berkel upcoming changes in the composition of the Supervisory Board, F.G.H. Deckers there will be no need to continue with this Committee. Its tasks will 9 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Supervisory Board Public Interest Committee International F.G.H. Deckers, Chair •• Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Center for Human Drug F.E. Eelkman Rooda Research J.P. Rijsdijk A.F. van der Touw •• Partner in Umenz Benelux Background information on the members of the Supervisory S. Kloosterhof (1965) Board Member since 2012 Profession/principal employment F.G.H. Deckers (1950) Member since 2012 Sander Kloosterhof is a partner at Deloitte Tax in Amsterdam. He Profession/principal employment has over 25 years of experience in (international) tax and currently is a partner in the TMC practice. After a long career in banking (among others) as CEO of Van Lanschot Bankiers and different roles at ABN AMRO Bank, Floris C.A.M. Renne (1964) Deckers is active as a Non-Executive Director and Senior Advisor to Member since 2012 a number of European companies. Profession/principal employment External positions and activities Carlo Renne is a partner at Deloitte Accountants in Amsterdam. He •• Member of the Supervisory Board, Audit Committee and has over 25 years of experience in serving a range of mid-market Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of SBM Offshore clients in the private sector with audit and assurance services. •• Member of the Supervisory Board of Arklow Shipping Limited (Ireland) and Member of the Supervisory Board of Arklow J.P Rijsdijk (1956) Shipping Nederland B.V. Member since 2013 Profession/principal employment •• Advisor to Apollo Management International LLP (London) •• Member of the Supervisory Board of the Vlerick School of Jacqueline Rijsdijk has worked at the Dutch Central bank for more Management (Belgium) than 25 years in several executive positions, her last position being Director of Payments (until 2008). Subsequently, she has been •• Member of the Board of Stichting Amici Almae Matris (Belgium) a member of the Board of ASR Nederland. As of 2010 she has •• Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Springpaarden Fonds focused on oversight positions in the public and private sectors. Nederland External positions and activities •• Chairman of the Hilversumsche Golf Club •• Member of the Supervisory Board of Royal Cosun (Coöperatie Koninklijke Cosun U.A.) •• Member of the Board of Stichting Administratiekantoor Professor Vlerick te Rotterdam •• Member of the Supervisory Board of the VU Medical Center •• Partner at Partner in Toezicht A.J.L.M. van Berkel (1960) Member since 2011 •• Member of the Audit Committee of the Dutch Ministry of Internal Profession/principal employment Affairs •• Member of the Advisory Board of Airbus Defence and Space Ardie van Berkel is the EMEA Lead Partner for Human Capital Netherlands B.V. in Deloitte Consulting. She has over 25 years’ experience as a management consultant on strategic and operational human •• Chair of the Supervisory Board of Fair Share Fund Triodos Bank capital matters. She has served a wide range of clients in the public •• Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Green Fund Triodos Bank and the private sectors. •• Chair of the Supervisory Board of Veer foundation F.E. Eelkman Rooda (1952) •• Member of the Board of Stichting Beheer Hotelschool Den Haag Member since 2013 Profession/principal employment •• Member of the Advisory Board of The Waste Transformers Frans Eelkman Rooda is former CFO of Royal Wessanen (2008/2011) and Mediq (1997/2008) in the Netherlands. Prior to that, he was a consultant and partner at McKinsey & Company. External positions and activities •• Member of the Supervisory Board of De Lage Landen 10 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Supervisory Board A.F. van der Touw (1955) The Supervisory Board has a clear focus on the developments in Member since 2012 corporate governance and the environment surrounding Deloitte, Profession/principal employment as well as the need for Deloitte to deliver high quality services that support the strategic vision of Deloitte which is ‘to make an impact Ab van der Touw is Chairman of the Executive Board of Siemens that matters’. Netherlands. He has spent his entire career at Siemens and has worked both in the Netherlands and in Germany. For further information about the corporate governance structure External positions and activities of Deloitte Netherlands and a more detailed description of the tasks, roles and responsibilities of the Supervisory Board, see the •• Member of the Supervisory Board of The Hague Centre for section Roles and Responsibilities, on page 70 of this report. Strategic Studies •• Chairman of the Oversight Board of the Center for Medical Highlights of the work of the Supervisory Board during the Imaging North-East Netherlands financial year 2015/2016 and achievements include the following, inter alia: •• Member of the Advisory Board of the Beta Technology Platform •• The Supervisory Board has held 9 regular meetings and 3 •• Vice-Chairman of the Board of FME/CWM comprehensive strategy sessions during the financial year. •• Member of the Board of the Foundation FME-CWM (‘Stichting Besides the regular meetings of the Board, several additional Steunregeling FME-CWM’) meetings were held in relation to: the firm’s international strategy, the implementation of the new governance model of •• Member and treasurer of the Board of VNO/NCW the firm, including the selection of a Chief Quality Officer, and •• Chairman of the German-Dutch Chamber of Commerce the (continued) implementation of a number of industry-wide measures to restore trust in the audit profession. •• Chairman of the (Economic Development) Board of the ‘Zuidvleugel” (Randstad) •• The regulatory environment for the audit practice and audit quality are continuously on the agenda of the Supervisory Board. •• Chairman of the Bach association (‘Stichting de Nederlandse The Supervisory Board has closely monitored the follow up on Bach Vereniging’) previous inspection reports by the Netherlands Authority for •• Member of the Committee of primary and secondary education the Financial Markets (AFM) and the Public Company Accounting (‘Commissie #onderwijs 2032 Ministerie OCW) Oversight Board (PCAOB), and the preparation and execution of inspections performed by both regulators in 2015/2016. •• Chairman of the Foundation Slachtofferhulp The Supervisory Board has also closely monitored the public consultation regarding proposed new legislation for audit firms. Vision Furthermore, the Supervisory Board has spent significant time The tasks and responsibilities of the Supervisory Board are discussing the implementation by Deloitte of a large number laid down in the Charter and the Rules of Procedure of the of measures agreed by the profession. Deloitte has strongly Supervisory Board. The tasks and responsibilities of the different supported the implementation of these measures, aimed at sub-committees of the Board are further described in separate restoring trust and confidence in the audit profession. This Charters that form part of the Charter and the Rules of Procedure includes, for example: the change to a Supervisory Board of the Supervisory Board. The separate reports of the different comprising independent external members only and the committees are included in this Report. new tasks of that Board, the introduction of Executive Board remuneration that is no longer linked to the results of the firm, The tasks of the Supervisory Board and the sub-committees and the introduction of a clawback for audit partners. include the supervision of the Executive Board with regards to: •• Quality is on the agenda at every regular Board meeting and •• The realisation of the firm’s strategy, goals and objectives receives constant attention from the Board. This also includes •• The firm’s financial performance and position risk management for the entire Deloitte organisation, especially reputational risk. The Board has discussed the need for high •• Public interest matters quality and risk mitigation in all service areas within Deloitte, not •• Quality assurance and compliance with independence only in the audit function. In the past financial year, other service regulations lines (including Tax and Consulting) have received growing public interest that is also very relevant for the Deloitte organisation. •• Risk management For example, the discussion on international tax structures and •• The composition of the Executive Board the Panama Papers have been specifically on the agenda. Given the importance of the subject matter, the Supervisory Board •• The remuneration of the Executive Board members decided to introduce a Quality and Risk Committee as new •• Human resources standing Board committee, starting October 2016. 11 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Supervisory Board •• During the financial year 2015/2016 the further implications of recommendations in several meetings. Furthermore, after the audit firm rotation for Public Interest Entities (organisaties deferring the new auditor selection process, a new audit firm van openbaar belang, or OOB), strict rules on separation of has been selected based on preset quality criteria (audit quality audit and advisory services at these Public Interest Entities, and risk assessment, working with Internal Audit, expertise in IR and stricter independence rules, were ongoing. Given Deloitte’s and governance and reporting thereon, team and confidentiality success in the audit firm rotation audit tendering, this has and conflict of interest protocol). The nomination of the new also had an impact on the audit capacity and capabilities and external auditor is subject to approval by the General Meeting in potential risks for audit quality. The Supervisory Board has September, 2016. thoroughly discussed the implications of these changes and has been kept informed by the Executive Board of their response to •• One of the NBA measures implemented and effective as of June these new developments, also including appropriate safeguards. 1, 2016, relates to the Clawback for audit partners. The Board has •• The Board supports and challenges the strategic initiatives of discussed this extensively with the Executive Board to ensure the Executive Board. During the year, these strategic initiatives this measure is implemented in accordance with the details – especially strategic initiatives aimed at further collaboration provided by the NBA and the interpretation thereof. Also within between the Deloitte Member Firms were regularly discussed the partnership, the Clawback was discussed in great detail. with the Executive Board and the Board has discussed and Implementation was supported by a vast majority of the audit evaluated the progress made on these strategic initiatives. partners and the General Meeting. •• As of September 2015 a new Executive Board model has Report of the Audit Committee been implemented, in line with the proposal of the Board The Audit Committee (AC) assists the Supervisory Board in fulfilling and as approved by the General Meeting. Peter Bommel was its oversight responsibilities for quality of internal and external re-appointed as Chief Executive Officer for a four year term. reporting of the firm, the control and risk management framework, The Executive Board model comprises a Management Board internal audit, engagement with the external auditor, financing and (statutair bestuur) of three members (Chief Executive Officer, tax. In doing so, the AC takes note of the outcome of internal audit Chief Operating Officer and Chief Quality Officer), which is investigations and assessments of compliance with applicable laws supported by a broad Executive Committee comprising Function and regulations. Leaders, Market Leaders, the Risk & Reputation Leader and the Finance and Talent leads. This matter has been on the agenda of The AC has had six regular meetings during the financial year multiple Board meetings. 2015/2016, two conference calls and has reported its findings •• The newly appointed Chief Quality Officer as of June 1, 2016, and comments to the full Supervisory Board during the regular Engelhardt Robbe, was recruited externally. Engelhardt Robbe meetings of the Board. The COO, the Finance Lead, the Controller succeeds Cees de Boer, who has served on the Executive Board and the Internal Auditor attended all AC meetings. The external for the last eight years, first in the capacity as COO/ CFO and Auditor attended four meetings to discuss, inter alia, the audit plan since October 1, 2015 in the capacity of Chief Quality Officer. The and the audit findings and recommendations. Supervisory Board would like to take this opportunity to thank Cees for the invaluable and distinctive contribution he has made Highlights of the work of the AC during 2015/2016: to Deloitte while serving on the Executive Board. •• Discussion on the financial performance of the firm, both at an •• As in previous years, an extensive inspection was undertaken aggregate level and for the different Functions of Deloitte. The by the Risk & Reputation Leader on independence compliance. Committee is satisfied with the financial performance of the As part of this inspection, many partners, directors and Group senior managers were individually tested. It is critical that the •• Discussion covering forecasts and financial plans organisation maintains a system of closely monitoring and inspecting adherence to the independence rules. The Board is •• Structure of the control framework of the group regularly informed on the results of these inspections. •• Approval of the annual internal audit plan •• Important partner matters are, as a matter of principle, brought •• Planning and preparation of integrated reporting to the attention of the Supervisory Board and, when needed, discussed thoroughly with the Executive Board. •• The internal and external audit findings, including the follow-up on previous recommendations made by the internal and external •• The Board completed a process to evaluate its performance and auditors that of its individual members. This evaluation was performed with the support of an external expert, securing an independent •• Discussion on specific reports issued by the internal auditor in and professional evaluation. line with the annual internal audit plan •• Following newspaper articles about the rotation of the external •• Review of the proposal for restructuring of Stichting InterNos and auditor of Deloitte, the Supervisory Board has evaluated the consolidation in Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. process of decision making with support of internal governance •• Selection of the audit firm proposed to conduct the audit of the experts, and it has discussed the evaluation findings and financial statements effective from financial year 2016/2017 12 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 | Report from the Supervisory Board Report of the Partners Matters Committee The RC advised the Supervisory Board to propose a new Executive The Partner Matters Committee (PMC) supports the Supervisory Board remuneration policy for adoption by the General Meeting, in Board on oversight matters with regards to the partner line with the NBA measures. As a consequence, the remuneration remuneration system. for members of the Executive Board is fixed and no longer linked to the results of the firm. The RC has held several meetings on this The PMC has discussed a limited number of appeals by individual matter. partners regarding their classification in the 2015/2016 partner remuneration system. Also, the PMC reviewed the classification The RC discussed the target setting for 2015/2016 of the Executive of the entire group of partners in the 2015/2016 partner Board and each Executive Board member. Long term goals related remuneration system. to quality are explicitly included in the personal targets of the Executive Board members. Report of the Public Interest Committee (PIC) In February 2016 and in June 2016, the RC discussed the The PIC was introduced and appointed in April 2013. The PIC is performance of each member of the Executive Board during the composed of the external members of the Supervisory Board. The financial year 2015/2016. PIC has had five meetings during the financial year, three off which have been combined with the meetings of the (entire) Supervisory Report of the Selection and Nomination Committee Board. The Selection and Nomination Committee (SNC) is responsible for preparing the selection and nomination by the Supervisory Board Highlights of the work of the PIC during 2015/2016: of new members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. The SNC also addressed succession planning of members •• Implementation of the NBA measures introduced in September of both Boards. 2014 •• Responsible Tax This financial year (2015/2016) the SNC has advised the Supervisory Board to nominate Peter Bommel, Mario van Vliet and Engelhardt •• Regulatory matters, especially related to the audit practice, such Robbe for (re)appointment as members of the Executive Board. as external inspection reports of AFM and PCAOB. Including Furthermore, the SNC has advised on the reappointment of follow up measures taken by Deloitte Mrs Ardie van Berkel and Mr. Floris Deckers as members of the •• Whistle-blower Policy Supervisory Board, and started the search for a fifth Supervisory Board member. •• Governance model of Deloitte •• Public Policy Plan Integrated Annual Report 2015/2016 The financial statements of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. as presented •• Other regulatory matters related to specific external by the Executive Board, have been audited by Ernst & Young investigations by AFM Accountants LLP. Their report is included in Annex 3. The Board •• Selecting and recommending the appointment of the external has approved the financial statements and recommends the auditor members to adopt the 2015/2016 financial statements. •• Reports of internal and external quality reviews Given this is the first year that a fully Integrated Report including •• Reports of independence reviews Financial Statements is issued, the sustainability sections of the Integrated Report has also been an area of focus for •• Reports of ethics reviews the Supervisory Board including communications with both •• Reports of substantial litigation and risk management cases management and Ernst & Young thereon. Ernst & Young Accountants LLP has issued their report on certain sustainability •• Public Affairs matters sections of the Integrated Report and we refer to their report •• The impact of international developments within the DTTL global included in Annex 3: Other information. The Board has approved network on Deloitte in the Netherlands the Integrated Report including the sections on sustainability and recommends the members to adopt the 2015/2016 Integrated A more comprehensive report of its activities will be included in the Report. Transparency Report of Deloitte Accountants BV for the financial year 2015/2016. Appreciation The Board wishes to express its gratitude to the members of the Report of the Remuneration Committee Executive Board, Executive Committee and all partners and all staff The Remuneration Committee (RC) supports the Supervisory of Deloitte Netherlands for their continued contribution to the firm. Board on decisions regarding the remuneration of the members of the Executive Board, including an assessment of their individual Rotterdam, September 2, 2016 performance. On behalf of the Supervisory Board F.G.H. Deckers, Chairman 13 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Executive Board Report from the Executive Board This Integrated Annual Report highlights the activities of Deloitte in the Netherlands, our impact on our clients and people and on society at large, during the financial year ended May 31, 2016. Deloitte is led by a single purpose: to make an impact that matters. This purpose guides our ambitions and strategic objectives. It also defines what we are as an organisation. 14 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Executive Board I n this Report we strive to take a holistic view and reflect openly information on these targets up to 2020, please refer to the ‘Our about our business environment, dilemmas and opportunities. impact’ section on pages 20-57 of this Report. We believe in an open and transparent relationship with you, our stakeholders. By sharing this Integrated Annual Report, At Deloitte, we determine our strategic priorities and our target we aim to provide you with a better understanding on how we setting in a collaborative manner. We also welcome any relevant make an impact that matters, creating and sustaining value insights from our stakeholders in this regard. in the short, medium and long term. We also appreciate your feedback that enables us to continue improving our integrated Execution capabilities reporting in the years ahead. Please send your comments to The successful implementation and execution of our strategy nlbccommunications@deloitte.nl. requires recognition and support throughout our organisation, and effective change management where necessary. We are proud of Purpose, ambition and strategy what we have accomplished to date and we are confident in our To address our key challenges and opportunities, and fulfil our ability to deliver on the strategy in the years ahead, despite the aspirations, we have defined a clear strategy towards 2020. This challenges we will inevitably face. strategy guides us on our journey, and enables us to achieve our The Executive Board has performed an in-depth risk assessment wider purpose; to make an impact that matters: for our clients, our to challenge the Strategy 2020 from a risk perspective. By setting people, and society, and our aspiration to be the undisputed leader up strong governance systems around the implementation of in professional services. our strategy, we ensure a focus on the key initiatives and a more effective management of the corresponding risks. To us this means: Organisational changes •• To be the organisation that clients, the public, regulators and We have implemented a number of organisational changes that talent hold up as a role model of quality, integrity, and positive are closely linked to the execution of our Strategy 2020. To achieve change an optimal structure, an Executive Board was formed comprising •• To be the employer of choice, providing the best talent with a Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operations Officer, and a Chief professional and personal fulfilment Quality Officer, as well as a 13-member Executive Committee. The Executive Committee includes Function Leaders, Market Leaders, •• To be the most innovative partner for our clients and our talent the Risk & Reputation Leader and the Finance, Talent and Strategy •• To be able to solve the toughest business challenges ‘As one’ leads. In line with our focus on quality, the Chief Quality Officer across Functions, service lines and borders is a new role within the Executive Board. This new structure complies with the report from the Dutch auditing professional •• To be the first choice for premium clients body (NBA) on industry-wide measures to restore trust in the •• To be the undisputed leader in professional services audit profession: among others, a compact Executive Board that may only have a limited client portfolio after explicit permission •• To always pursue our purpose from the Supervisory Board. This combined with Executive Board remuneration that is not based on profitability with no direct client Our strategy responsibilities. To realise our ambitions, we have defined six priorities within our Strategy 2020. These are as follows: As mentioned previously under ‘Scope’, via the incorporation of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and subsequent share transfer of •• Ensure quality Deloitte Holding B.V. to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A., effective from June 1, 2015, the Coöperatief is the ultimate holding and reporting •• Become the premier career destination entity of Deloitte. In the second half of 2015, we noted that there •• Accelerate growth and innovation were different views on the consolidation of Stichting InterNos, including public press coverage, on the appropriate accounting •• Improve the client portfolio treatment and whether Stichting InterNos should be consolidated •• Establish lean operations in the Deloitte Holding B.V. accounts. Relating thereto, the Board initiated a project to evaluate the Deloitte and Stichting InterNos •• Seek internationalisation structure going forward including the current accounting treatment of Stichting InterNos. We elaborate further on these priorities within the ‘Our impact’ section of this Report. The outcome and conclusion of the review is that the current accounting treatment of Stichting InterNos is appropriate. Target setting Furthermore, the review outcome of the current Deloitte legal and We have defined strategic plans for each of our priorities, set reporting structure conclusion was that the current structure can be ambitious targets and allocated resources accordingly. For more further optimised and clarified, also from a stakeholder perspective. 15 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Executive Board In order to simplify our structure and for further international implemented fundamental measures and made strong efforts alignment, the members voted to transfer Stichting InterNos to to enhance our system of quality control, quality monitoring and Deloitte Holding B.V. Subsequent to this vote, combined with engagement level quality. This theme is covered at length in our agreement by the Board of Stichting InterNos, Deloitte Holding Transparency Reports, where we also note that our audit quality B.V. obtained control of Stichting InterNos and became the sole has improved compared to the period in which the inspection was Board member of Stichting InterNos as of May 23, 2016. As a performed. We also note that this journey is one that requires consequence, Stichting InterNos is now reported as part of Deloitte continuous change and ongoing learning, engagement, and Holding B.V. and Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. We refer to Annex 1: continuous improvement. Notes to the consolidated financial statements general section: Acquiring control over Stichting InterNos. The quality, integrity and independence of our services and the role we play in society is our licence to operate. Our attention Our year on continuously enhancing the quality of our services is part As the year began, we developed our Strategy 2020 to focus on and parcel of Strategy 2020 as is the intrinsic motivation of our our priority: to make an impact that matters. The strategy was professionals to drive quality day in and day out. launched and widely communicated, and has also included several messages from our leadership throughout the year, as well as Our impact on talent continues to develop and grow. In the year we updates on developments and progress. welcomed over 1,300 new Deloitte team members. Our talent pool consists of graduates from academic economic faculties, other Through our focus on quality and innovation, we made a significant faculties for STEM-talent (Science, Technology, Engineering and impact on our clients, which is reflected in the excellent results Mathematics) as well as experienced professionals. We continue achieved in 2016. We saw considerable revenue growth in each of to work closely with several national and international academic our Functions, which is an unprecedented achievement. We did faculties. We support internships and graduation work at Deloitte so despite the challenging market environment and a backdrop premises, through which our professionals engage in curricula of political and economic uncertainty. Although stabilising, the teaching, and are also involved in joint research projects. Dutch economy is showing limited growth as it continues to be affected by uncertainty combined with volatility in the surrounding To increase our impact on society in combination with our countries and economies. We have achieved double digit growth employees we have transformed the Deloitte Fair Chance in revenues and in earnings driven by the leading performance of Foundation into the Deloitte Impact Foundation. As part of our Consulting and Risk Advisory businesses, while growth was this transformation, and in alignment with our purpose, we are also robust in Tax & Legal and Financial Advisory Services. Audit committed to spend 1 percent of our talent’s productive hours on performance remained on track while results were driven by large pro-bono and volunteer work. This implies that we aim to invest public interest entities (PIE) transitions resulting from new wins. some 45,000 hours per year. The Deloitte Impact Foundation focuses on education and innovative projects that contribute We strive to be the most innovative professional services firm. to making a difference to those that need help and support. An To lead in innovation we focus on the growth areas including example of this is our pro-bono work for the Red Cross, which is cybersecurity, data analytics and digitalisation. An example of described in the ‘Our Impact’ section on page 20 of this Report. making an impact is our Hack.ERS-team that won the Global CyberLympics for the fourth time. This is a major achievement in Performance the cybersecurity space and the result of strong teamwork and We are proud to report growth in our revenues and profits close collaboration. We also make an impact on our clients by resulting from our continued efforts and strategic initiatives and partnering with innovative institutions like Singularity University focus. Specifically, net turnover increased by 19.6% compared to and Cambridge Innovation Center. For more information about the previous year to reach €785.3 million. Results before taxation these partnerships, please see ‘Accelerate growth and innovation’ increased by €19.8 million to €115.3 million, an increase of 20.7%. In on page 44 of this Report. many respects, 2015/2016 was an excellent year for Deloitte. The revenue growth was largely driven by a strong performance in our In March 2016, the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets Risk Advisory and Consulting business. At the same time, our Audit (AFM) issued its fine that resulted from the 2014 inspection report business, Financial Advisory business and Tax & Legal business ‘Quality statutory audits Big 4’. The AFM’s inspection report covers also achieved growth. We are convinced that our focus on quality, audits from the financial years 2011 and 2012. The fine amounts to innovation and talent are key drivers for this strong performance. €1.8 million that related to files evaluated by the AFM and deemed to not be fully compliant with audit standards. For the audits Key drivers for our performance are embedded in our strategy deemed to be not fully compliant, none resulted in the need to 2020 plan. An unrelenting focus on quality combined with growing reissue the auditor report or restate the financial statements. the business, improving our client portfolio, innovating, leading talent initiatives, and ensuring cost control through our fit for We attach great value and are fully committed to providing growth programme. This combined with even closer collaboration the highest quality of services. Over the past years, we have with Deloitte internationally all contributed to the financial 16 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Executive Board year 2015/2016 being a record year for the firm. Our improved Audit revenues in 2015/2016 grew by 5.1% to €219.1 million. performance translated into an improved result before taxation as a percentage of revenue from 14.5% in 2014/2015 to 14.7 % in Risk Advisory 2015/2016. Combining revenue growth with a stable operating cost In recent years, Risk Advisory has grown significantly in the base in 2015/2016 also formed the basis for a substantial increase in Financial Services Industry; Manufacturing, Energy and variable pay for employees to €41 million (2014/2015: €14 million). Resources (MER); Consumer Business; and Technology, Media & Telecommunication (TMT), while showing stable performance Audit in the Public Sector. In terms of delivered services, the largest Our Audit business consists of assurance and non-assurance growth has been in the Governance Risk Regulatory service area, accounting services. Net revenues in Assurance remained stable mainly within the Financial Services Industry as a result of growing in 2015/2016. This reflected, on the one hand, the impact of regulatory demands by financial market authorities. Cyber Risk new audit mandates resulting from mandatory rotations, which Services and Control Transformation Assurance services have included clients such as Heineken, Randstad, Aalberts Industries, continued growing in all Industries, particularly Manufacturing, VolkerWessels, Vopak and Wolters Kluwer. On the other hand, the Energy and Resources (‘MER’), Consumer Business and Technology, impact of a decrease in clients resulting from the Improve Client Media, Telecom (‘TMT’), as a result of growing awareness of internal Portfolio (ICP) initiative has also affected performance. Through the control risks and cyber risk threats. Along with the growth of the ICP initiative, we have reduced the overall number of audit clients overall Function, we expect to increase our IT Audit involvement in order to improve our quality, reduce workloads and improve and Audit Analytics assistance as a result of new clients within returns. By making clear choices with regards to the composition Deloitte Audit. of our client portfolio, we are able to apply our resources more The growth of Risk Advisory has resulted from the continuous effectively. Talent management, on-the-job coaching, improved focus on our priorities: clients, talent and innovation. Our focus project management (audit quality milestones), and the on Global Crown Jewel clients has resulted in continuing large deployment of accountants from neighbouring Deloitte firms are programmes in which all our Service Areas are represented within other ways in which we are achieving this. cross-Functional Deloitte teams. This has demonstrated the success of our focus on strategic clients in sales and resources During financial year 2015/2016, we continued to implement actions planning, and of our cross-functional client service. Talent and from our audit quality plan, and spent significant time transitioning innovation are key for our growth. We grew from roughly 250 to on our new audit mandates. Continuously improving audit quality 550 professionals over a five-year period and continue to develop remained our top priority in the year, and is part of a long-term Technology Enabled Solutions to deliver new and innovative commitment that includes the implementation of measures and services. changes in processes and procedures, together with a change in culture and behaviour. It is important to recognise that this will Risk Advisory revenues in 2015/2016 grew by 43.3% to €113.5 take time and that we measure our progress and continue to make million. adjustments where necessary. The investments we are making in this regard are considerable and affect both our quality system and Tax & Legal the execution of audit assignments, which results in more hours per Revenues for Tax & Legal showed strong growth in 2015/2016. engagement. These measures are continuously subject to change For mostly Manufacturing, Energy and Resources, the Financial on the basis of root cause analyses. In addition, we are investing in Services Industry and Technology, Media & Telecommunication data analytics and automation, among other areas, to enhance our grew significantly, while our growth in specific country regions relevance for clients and also broadening the talent experience. We largely remained flat. Revenues also increased in the Public continue to note and monitor the demands and the impact that Sector, which has developed into a growth market. In categories regulatory requirements have on our audit professionals. This has and service lines within Tax & Legal, Global Employer Services resulted in various strategic initiatives including Distinctive Audit, performed extremely well while M&A and Legal also grew Improved Client Portfolio, learning investments, and a drive to free-up substantially. There were also important breakthroughs in the time for our audit professionals and ensure a more balanced demand application of data analytics and tax related ERP offerings. and use of their time. Our non-assurance business within the small and medium enterprises Overall, Tax & Legal’s profile has continued to change rapidly market (SME) continued to expand in the year as we benefitted from in terms of its approach and implementation. The Tax & Legal substantial growth opportunities in mid-market advisory, especially Function employs over 800 people. Approximately 90% of mergers & acquisitions. We maintained and intensified our focus on these professionals have traditional tax or legal backgrounds, family businesses through the EMEA Deloitte Family Business initiative while a little less than 10% have a ‘non-traditional’ educational that collects market information about this segment and develops background. The importance of this non-traditional part is growing relevant new products and services. Also, over the last year our each year and is also reflected in the type of services and offerings innovative Ctrl-platform continued to be an important growth driver provided and corresponding revenues. Particularly process and for our SME-business. For more information, please see ‘Accelerating technology have evolved into mature business elements and play a growth and innovation’ on page 44 of this Report. crucial role within the Tax & Legal business. 17 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Executive Board Large, multi-country, outsourcing projects have become regular data-driven corporate venturing services to assist clients in shaping features in all tax areas and the legal market is following the same and implementing their corporate venturing strategy. With high path. This partly explains the double-digit increase of revenues quality data sources and search technology we help corporates in in, for example, Global Employer Services. These changes require mapping ecosystems and identifying relevant targets. large investments in skills and competencies, and our learning curriculum is under constant pressure to deliver the preparation FAS revenues in 2015/2016 grew by 42.7% to €70.5 million. and development our people expect and our business needs. This shift was identified by Tax & Legal some years back and we Regulatory environment are proud to see that the investments and steps taken to date We are subject to national, international and internal regulations. have enabled us to achieve leading market expertise in several Especially in our Audit Function, we work in a highly regulated important, and relatively new, areas. industry that demands compliance with all relevant regulations. Regulatory compliance is part and parcel of our approach to Tax & Legal revenues in 2015/2016 grew by 10.9% to €185.5 million quality. However, the importance of the regulatory environment and the expectations of various stakeholders stretches beyond the Consulting scope of the Audit Function. For example, the publication of the Deloitte Consulting achieved very strong performance in the so-called Panama papers has served as a catalyst for the debate year, with revenues up by more than 20%. Our strategy aims at on ethical taxation. a preferred Consulting position at large (mostly multinational) accounts in financial, public and private sectors in the Dutch Audit market. We combine our strategic, operations, human capital and We have adopted changes in our governance and remuneration for technology capabilities to partner with our clients and deliver Audit that are in line with the recommendations of the NBA report successful transformations. ‘In het publiek belang’. Elsewhere in this report you can read the changes that we have implemented. Furthermore, we continued to There was particularly strong growth in the Financial Sector strengthen our quality focus by actively promoting the right tone (Banking) and Private Sector industry segments (Consumer at the top, among other measures. The appointment of a Chief Business, Manufacturing and Energy & Resources). We were able to Quality Officer within the Executive Board is an example of this. We further strengthen our executive relationships at our key accounts have also continued our investments in effective quality controls and supported strategic and functional transformations in various such as the Engagement Quality Control Reviews (EQCR) and domains. All our capability areas Strategy & Operations, Human portfolio reviews, and continue to actively participate in the public Capital and Technology contributed to our growth. debate on the role of Audit within society. There was solid growth in consulting services such as Post During the reporting year, we were fined for breaches of relevant Merger Integration/Carve outs, HCM cloud, Technology advisory audit regulations by the AFM for audits that took place in 2011 and & implementation and Digital. Growth was organic, and inorganic 2012. We refer to further information on this fine on page 16 of via the integration of HCM Cloud capabilities in the summer of this Report. We were also subject to a number of external reviews, 2015. Pivotal to our organic growth has been a strong focus on among others, by the Public Company Accounting Oversight developing and retaining our existing talent and recruiting new Board (PCAOB) for audits performed in 2015. We are happy to talent at all levels. inform our stakeholders that no irregularities or comments were reported from these inspections. To us, this is a signal that we are Consulting revenues in 2015/2016 grew by 30.0% to €193.8 million. on the right track, while we continue to have work to do to fulfil our ambition to be the undisputed leader in audit quality. Financial Advisory Services (FAS) FAS provides services related to M&A, real estate and pensionTax related challenges faced by clients. Our broad client base ranges Responsible Tax has remained an important topic that is widely from leading (Dutch) multinationals, owner-managed business and discussed. These discussions gained momentum due to, private equity, through to local and national government bodies. among others, the publication of the so-called Panama papers. Governments in many countries are reviewing their practice and M&A activity levels were generally favourable in the year, while are preparing for the EU recently agreed new legislation to prevent the real estate market also showed an uplift in activities. Given tax evasion, including increased demands for tax transparency by the limited changes in pension legislation, our Benefits & Pension reporting entities. Advisory services revenues stagnated. Revenue growth was mainly driven by our Transaction Services and Corporate Finance Advisory Deloitte Tax & Legal is actively engaged in the Responsible Tax business. debate. We contribute our technical expertise by providing comments on the various proposals from the OECD and Dutch During the year we invested in Deloitte Fast Ventures to develop government and also engage in conversations with external our corporate venturing proposition. Deloitte Fast Ventures offers stakeholders including NGOs. Since the start of the debate, 18 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Report from the Executive Board Deloitte Tax & Legal is actively discussing this topic with clients and provides reasonable assurance that the financial statements has also developed a number of tools that can help clients assess 2015/2016 do not contain any material misstatements. the impact of potential measures. We see it as our responsibility to address this matter pro-actively with our clients to make Rotterdam, September 2, 2016 them aware of the possible impact and also cover with them the implications outside the tax function. Executive Board P. J. Bommel, Chief Executive Officer and Chair Outlook M. van Vliet, Chief Operations Officer While both the global and Dutch economies remain volatile, we E. Robbe, Chief Quality Officer continue to build and execute on our vision and strategy. We plan to grow our business and improve our performance by making conscious investments in quality, talent development, innovation, and by recruiting and retaining the best talent, in order to achieve our accelerated growth targets. Our other strategic initiatives will also continue in the areas of improving client portfolio and lean operations. In addition, we will seek internationalisation for further collaboration to serve our clients even better, improve quality, and enhance career opportunities. Furthermore, we are actively pursuing opportunities with other Deloitte member firms to strengthen our market focus, resource allocation and collaboration in providing seamless service. With financial year 2015/2016 being a record year, we expect 2016/2017 to be a year where we will continue to grow and invest in quality, innovation and our talent. Based on the current visibility and a stable environment we plan to grow in number of professionals between 3 and 5 percent. We will continue to invest in innovation and product development at levels similar to 2014/2015 while increasing our investments in talent development and time allocated to making an impact on society with the goal of growing this to 1 percent of revenue. In Control statement of the Executive Board The Executive Board is responsible for actively managing all strategic, compliance, financial and operational risks; ensuring that adequate risk management and control mechanisms are in place, and that the risks as mentioned in the Risk Management paragraph of this report are sufficiently assessed and managed. The Executive Board actively promotes our ethical principles and quality standards, including checks for all professionals across the Deloitte organisation. The Executive Board has reviewed and analysed the risks that Deloitte is exposed to, and it periodically reviewed the design and operational effectiveness of the internal control framework. The outcome of these reviews was shared with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. We have assessed the design and the operational effectiveness of our risk management and internal control framework. Based on the activities that took place in 2015/2016, the Executive Board considers the framework to have worked effectively, and that this provides sufficient assurance to state that we have been, currently are, and anticipate to be, in control of our key risks and that this 19 Our Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact imp 20 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Overview 22 ­Ensure quality 29 Become the number one career destination 36 Accelerate growth and innovation 44 Improve our client portfolio 47 Establish lean operations 54 Seek internationalisation 56 Our interactions with stakeholders 58 act 21 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Overview Overview Our stakeholders – employees, clients, regulators, the broader community and society at large – share their values and concerns with us through day-to-day interaction, direct engagement and specific communications, including events, surveys and questionnaires. 22 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Overview W e aim to be an organisation that all our stakeholders hold up as a role model for quality, integrity, and positive sustainable change. We recognise the importance of our on-going dialogue with our stakeholders as it helps us to understand what they consider important and how they perceive us and our activities. We actively participate in the market, the labour market and in the broader social and regulatory environment to further understand the elements that drive our performance and success. Society Media, Regulators opinion leaders & NGOs Clients & their Competitors shareholders Graduates Deloitte Suppliers Deloitte Our people network Financial Our partners institutions Trends, challenges and opportunities As a professional services firm, our market place is characterised by a degree of volatility. Our horizon for long-term value creation therefore spans a period of five years and longer. The trends, challenges and opportunities we see over this period are depicted in the chart below. 23 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Overview Challenges & Opportunities •• Innovation & •• Evolution of the audit profession technology •• Internationalisation Impact > •• Regulation and societal pressure •• Multidisciplinary model •• Talent •• Commodisation •• Security, integrity & confidentiality Challenge Opportunity These trends, challenges and opportunities have contributed to •• We serve clients with quality and distinction, making a how we define our purpose, aspirations and strategy. We have measurable and attributable impact. included a description of our challenges and opportunities in the •• We inspire to our people to deliver value — mentoring and risk management paragraph op page 72 of this Report. developing future leaders and colleagues for life. Our purpose •• We contribute to society, building confidence and trust, We believe our key stakeholders value us most when we make upholding integrity, and supporting the community. an impact that matters. This is our purpose, aspiration and •• We lead the profession by challenging ourselves to do what the starting point for our strategy. The trends, challenges and matters most, delivering innovative ideas that reflect our unique opportunities that we see are the basis for our Strategy 2020. Our capabilities. Purpose statement is a clear and compelling declaration of why we exist. It states: These purpose-driven behaviours are guided by our network’s shared values — integrity, outstanding value to markets and Deloitte makes an impact that matters. clients, commitment to each other, and strength through cultural diversity. We live our purpose when we make a positive and enduring impact every day for our organisation and its stakeholders. This requires To make an impact that matters on our clients, our talent and that: on society, we have defined our Strategy 2020. This strategy comprises six strategic pillars: Ensure quality Become Accelerate Improve client Establish lean Seek the number growth and portfolio operations internationalisation one career innovation destination 24 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Overview Materiality matrix •• Privacy •• Quality •• Public trust •• Data security •• Compliance Importance to our stakeholders •• Ecological footprint •• Independence •• Supply chain responsibility •• Innovation •• Diversity •• Client •• Indirect economic impact / engagement •• Waste social return •• Health & safety •• Use of materials •• Ethical standards •• Global network •• Employment •• Training & education •• Water •• Transparency •• Partnerships •• Local sourcing •• Impact on local communities •• Biodiversity •• Direct economic impact/ profitability Importance for our strategy Issues that are material to our stakeholders In the materiality analysis above, we have plotted the material Our stakeholders have raised a number of issues that are material issues that were identified in our stakeholder engagement to them. These have shaped our strategy and the way we create against their estimated importance for stakeholders as well as value. Through ongoing engagement with and analysis of our their relevance for the execution of our strategy. This results in stakeholders, we have created a list of material issues. We have the following issues that we deem material for our business. For plotted these and determined their impact on our strategy and more details on our selection of issues, please refer to the ‘Our capacity for value creation. interactions with stakeholders’ section on page 58 of this Report. •• Quality, compliance & ethical standards •• Privacy and data security •• Innovation •• Client engagement •• Diversity •• Training and education •• Health and safety •• Indirect economic impact •• Supply chain responsibility •• Ecological footprint It is essential that we address these material issues in our daily operations. Our success in doing so influences our ability to create value in the short, medium and long term. To explain how we do this, please refer to the table How our strategy impacts our material issues on page 28 of this Report. 25 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Overview Making impact through our resources We create value by converting our resources (financial, talent, intellect and strong relationships in society) into short, medium and long-term value by making an impact that matters for our clients, people, and society at large. Financial capital External environment Financial capital Client fees Changing demographics Client fees Equity Global warming Equity Economic balance shift Data driven decision making Regulatory environment Talent Society Talent People Mentoring and developing Skills Trust future leaders and Ability colleagues for life Knowledge Clients n Q t io va lit y no ua In Talent Intellect Intellect Regulation Technology Leading the profession by dg Expertise l e delivering innovative, high Va le Intellectual capabilities ues ow quality ideas that reflect our Kn Knowledge resources unique capabilities Stakeholder management Clients Trust Society Society Society Clients Building confidence and Brand promise trust Public trust Upholding integrity Stakeholder management Supporting the community Natural/manufactured Internal environment Natural/manufactured Infrastructure (office, cars) Governance Hold up as a role model for Office equipment Multidisciplinary model positive change Fuel & energy Attracting and retaining a diverse workforce Work-life balance 26 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Overview With limited resources, we have an ongoing challenge in selecting Our strategy enables us to maximise our impact. The six strategic our areas of greatest focus and making investments that achieve initiatives impact all capitals that are most relevant for Deloitte: optimal results in line with our strategic priorities. In this regard, financial, human and intellectual, as can be seen in the table below: we seek a balanced risk-reward approach to ensure sustainable performance while achieving our goals. How our strategy impacts Fin ll m Na t So ce an In te Hu cia ur resources ec ur a so cia al an es lres d re es tu re s lr re lr tu re s rce es ufac es ou rc ou rc es ou Man es rc rc ou ou Ensure quality Become the number one career destination Accelerate growth and innovation Improve client portfolio Establish lean operations Seek internationalisation 27 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Overview Consistent with our purpose to make an impact that matters and living this purpose in a sustainable way, it is clear that our limited capitals and resources must be fully employed if we are to succeed from a quality and talent perspective. This, in combination with the need to continue innovating, growing and ensuring that optimal investments are made to achieve this. Further internationalisation is another key factor for the achievement of our longer term goals. How our strategy re at io n lis impacts our material su io na En te rn at ek in Se n issues bl lea ish ns t a t io E s er a n t op clie ov e pr lio Im tfo r o wt h po ra te ngr on e ce A c nol e a t i o b er v um n & i n e th ina n t io m es co r d e t Be e ca r e ty qu ali Quality, compliance & ethical standard Privacy & data security Innovation Client engagement Diversity Training & education Health & safety Indirect economic impact Supply chain responsibility Ecological footprint Our Strategy 2020 has been developed so that the key issues of our stakeholders are addressed, while also delivering on our financial and non-financial KPIs. These issues, as well as our KPIs and performance in 2015/2016 are addressed in more detail below, each elaborating on one of our six strategic pillars. We explain our strategic priorities and how they address the material issues and contribute to value creation. 28 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Ensure quality Ensure quality Total client satisfaction For this KPI, we are in the process of developing a basis to report this KPI from financial year 2016/2017 on in a manner that it can be supported by evidence and audited externally. % practice reviews on norm For this KPI, we are in the process of developing a basis to report this KPI from financial year 2016/2017 on in a manner that it can be supported by evidence and audited externally. % regulatory reviews that are satisfactory As the external reviews are still ongoing, we cannot report this KPI at present. 29 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Ensure quality Quality is a primary value driver Our talent drives quality Quality is our license to operate. We believe that our clients Every year, we recruit more than 1,000 talented new professionals. choose Deloitte because they trust that we have the ability to Most of these are university graduates for whom Deloitte is deliver high quality services and, similarly, that society trusts our their first employer. Traditionally, many of our new hires have a judgement because it believes in the high quality of our services, background in finance, economics or tax but increasingly we see particularly audits and other assurance services and solutions. We engineers, social and data scientists and other graduates joining are convinced that our talent wants to work at Deloitte to make a Deloitte. All recruits have one thing in common: they expect measurable and attributable impact on our clients and on society to be able to learn and develop themselves further with us. at large, by working as a team and collaborating on demanding and Through extensive training and career development programmes, complex client engagements. we respond to these expectations. We challenge our diverse workforce to form multidisciplinary teams that utilise the wealth of Quality should therefore always be our main value driver and experience within Deloitte in order to impact our clients. the core string of our DNA. Our main challenge is to meet and as opportune exceed expectations in our actions taken on every Our learning curriculum components are designed as a continuous engagement we perform. We recognise that we continuously learning journey, including various delivery methods such as onneed to grow and improve to meet expectations on the quality of the-job training, classrooms, e-learning, and coaching, which we our services as well as regulatory requirements. Total compliance blend to achieve the optimal embedding of our content. with these requirements must conform the basis of our quality approach without any compromise. To develop and implement our learning curriculum, Deloitte University EMEA was established (Europe, Middle East and However, quality is about more than just compliance. Our ambition Africa). The co-operation of the EMEA member firms allows for an is to be the undisputed leader in professional services and to make integrated international learning experience with shared content an impact that truly matters, so we must aim to deliver quality that and philosophy. With the aid of Deloitte University EMEA, we goes above and beyond compliance and the general expectations offer our people the chance to learn in a challenging international of our stakeholders. This requires us to embed quality within our setting. Additionally, we offer local trainings to fulfil the specific culture and our behaviours. We want to foster a culture of quality needs for the Dutch market, such as training curriculums that are that delivers value to our stakeholders and is applied consistently aimed at compliance with national laws and regulations. across our performance management processes. Moreover, we seek to engage with respectable clients for whom we can make an impact, and if necessary, will turn down engagements that do not fit that description. The key challenges that we face in the area of quality are: •• To deliver a consistent high quality client experience •• To inspire our people to intrinsically embrace our quality ambition •• To set targets and measure quality in an efficient and effective way •• To create a safe but strict environment and fair processes when dealing with compliance Our Quality Plan 2020 addresses these challenges. 30 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Ensure quality Table 01: Average training hours per employee 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Total 65.7 61.2 57.3 By gender 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Male 70.4 66.6 63.4 Female 57.4 51.4 46.6 By category 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Partners 38.7 44.8 38.8 Directors 33.8 32.2 27.8 Senior managers 32.2 29.6 32.4 Managers 36.0 34.6 34.5 Aspirant / Jr. managers 65.4 55.6 55.0 Staff 85.7 83.0 76.6 By function (in training days) 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Audit* 17.6 14.3 13.1 Consulting 1.8 1.2 1.2 FAS 5.7 6.5 5.1 Tax & Legal 10.0 9.9 8.5 Others 1.4 1.8 1.8 * Figures FY16 cannot be compared with figures FY15 for Audit and Risk Advisory as training hours for Risk Advisory were included in the figures for Audit until FY15 From the table above it is clear that the training intensity in functions that are subject to regulation (Audit, Tax & Legal) is considerably higher than in the other functions and in our support organisation. By continuously investing in our talent, we enhance the knowledge, skills and competencies that allow our people to develop into future leaders in their field of expertise. We thereby create value for clients, for Deloitte, for society at large and ultimately, for our employees as well. 31 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Ensure quality Promoting the right culture and behaviour Measuring quality In order to deliver a consistently high quality client experience, For our Strategy 2020 we identified Quality as one of the six we aim to inspire our people to intrinsically embrace our quality strategic initiatives. To measure and monitor the effectiveness ambition. In addition, we look to create a safe but disciplined of our interventions, we included as a KPI that our quality meets environment for dealing with compliance issues. norm requirements (complies). Furthermore, as a learning and improving organisation, our goal is to annually show improvements Promoting a quality-focused internal corporate culture starts with in quality compared to the previous year. Given this is the first year clear, logical and regularly recurring measures and messages that of our Strategy 2020, we report that measuring our performance embed these important themes at all levels and across the full on quality is challenging given, among other reasons, in certain breadth of our organisation. This takes place by various means, instances that several external quality reviews did not take place including Deloitte TV, newsletters, discussion evenings, internal yet or are in progress. Also, in order to report comparative year on webcasts and presentations. We ensure that partners, directors, year improvements, 2015/2016 is considered the base year for the managers and professionals take sufficient time as a priority to comparison. work on the quality agenda, which illustrates that, in addition to communicating key messages, Deloitte is also willing to make the The data that we have gathered so far, for example on the results associated investments. of external inspections completed, practice reviews executed by our international network and practice reviews performed by some In terms of compliance, it is vital that we provide clarity to our of our Functions, indicate that we are moving in the right direction. talent on the behaviours we expect. To this end, we have our Code We are fully aware though, that in the area of quality we can never of Ethics and whistle-blowing procedure which is described in the be fully satisfied and that there is always room for improvement. ‘Ethics and integrity’ section on page 64 of this Report. In addition, we have developed tooling that enables employees to act in (preliminary) Results from DTTL practice reviews shows that certain compliance with relevant laws and regulations, for example, in the improvements are recommended for Audit and Tax & Legal and area of client and engagement acceptance. Quality is included in that for Consulting, Risk Advisory and FAS we are on norm. our performance management to underpin the importance of this strategic focus area to our talent. Thus compliance and enhancing For Audit, we also report on quality in our Transparency Report quality are incentivised. Furthermore, we will conduct a culture 2015/2016 that is available on our website. survey amongst our employees that will enable us to undertake concrete quality interventions in the next fiscal year. Embedding quality and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations is a prerequisite for public trust. By enhancing public To assess the quality of our work, we perform regular practice trust we create value for our clients, financial markets, regulators reviews. In a practice review for a partner, we periodically review and society at large. the quality of the work performed and the reporting and advice given to clients, as well as compliance with related Functionspecific policies on the basis of a sample of their engagements. The conclusions of the practice reviews are used as input for the partner appraisal and remuneration process. Responsibility for the practice reviews lies with the Function Leaders in cooperation with the Reputation & Risk Leader. 32 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Ensure quality Trusted to handle sensitive information Many of our clients entrust sensitive data to us so we can deliver our services. Our clients must therefore be able to rely on the complete integrity of our processes and systems. Maintaining robust processes and systems with the highest levels of data security is an important issue for Deloitte. On a continuous basis, we monitor our defences against data leakages and we have implemented strict protocols in case such leakages would occur. The prevention of data leakage is our top priority as this could harm our clients and our reputation as a trusted business partner, leading to significant monetary fines. To ensure compliance with regulatory provisions that include the Dutch Data Protection Act, Deloitte has adopted and implemented a policy on privacy and appointed a dedicated Privacy Officer. The National Privacy Officer is part of our Confidentiality, Privacy & Security Team within the Reputation & Risk Leadership Office. The tasks of the National Privacy Officer include, but are not limited to, examining privacy aspects of processes and systems through our internal Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), a tool that allows our Privacy Officer to perform a specific risk analysis for each new system. Secondly, all existing systems that have been assessed through our PIA are re-assessed in the event that changes have occurred regarding; 1) the data used; 2) the data processing procedure that the system is part of, or; 3) the system itself. Furthermore, as part of our Incident Response Process, we reassess systems when there is a suspected privacy breach or data loss. This way, we monitor privacy compliance of all our systems and processes with our policies and regulations. Thirdly, we train selected colleagues both within our Functions and in Group Support Centre on privacy and confidentiality aspects in relation to the processes and systems we employ. In the reporting year, we did not specifically evaluate our privacy related policies and no incidents arose that caused us to adapt our approach. In 2015/2016, we received a complaint regarding breaches of client privacy or loss of customer data that we were obliged to report under the Wet meldplicht datalekken. This complaint has not yet been resolved. 33 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016  34 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 A scientific, data-driven approach to change management Implementing a change programme, especially when “I put some ideas down on a piece of paper, which I was then allowed to develop. it implies a transformation in technology that requires These have recently been funded by our people to work in different ways with new systems, Innovation department and are now a workable client tool,” says Marjolein. “It is one of the greatest challenges an organisation can wasn’t easy to develop, but it’s the kind of face. When Human Capital Manager Marjolein Vlaming innovation that only an organisation like Deloitte can achieve.” joined Deloitte two years ago, she was determined to find solutions to help clients manage change more The new Change Adoption Profiler tool, which was developed in close collaboration successfully. with Cornell University, is a scientifically based, data-driven decision-making method that provides insights into a company’s attitude towards change. This enables them to devise ways to better target their efforts through tailored campaigns and interventions, and identify the main challenges and opportunities in each programme. “It is about using data, to be scientific and not rely on a gut approach to change and to target interventions because a one-sizefits-all approach never works,” she explains. “Using data in change management to measure the change capacity of organisation provides huge benefits and an understanding of how a change plan should be executed.” Marjolein Vlaming Manager Consulting Human Capital 35 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Become the #1 career destination Become the #1 career destination #26 Employer of choice in relevant ranking 6.9 Talent engagement score (on a scale from 0 to 10) 716 Deloitters that hold an additional position in volunteering or education approx. 30,000 Children reached through the Deloitte Impact Foundation since 2012 36 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Become the #1 career destination Making an impact through our talent 3. Commitment from our top executives Our partners and professionals define the impact we have on Our leadership demonstrated increasing attention for talent. Both clients, society and the profession and ultimately determine in the Executive Board and the Executive Committee, the role our level of value creation. Our capacity to attract and retain of our leadership in relation to attraction, retention, education the greatest talent is the basis of our success. Continuous and motivation of talent is frequently discussed. To express the development is key in this regard as it takes the best to get the desire of our leadership to give talent management the attention best. it requires, we established the Talent Committee to be one of the committees charged with the execution of our Strategy 2020. This We aim to become a premier career destination providing Committee comprises our CEO, COO, our Function Leaders, Clients the world’s best talent with challenging work and significant & Industries, our HR partner and the Corporate Strategy Officer. development opportunities in an informal and collaborative They meet every three weeks to discuss the progress of our Talent environment. Strategy. We are committed to creating a community of partners and 4. Learning and development professionals that is diverse with regards to gender, ethnicity, age Over the past year, we have encouraged our people to strengthen and educational background. We attract talent with our compelling their technical and soft skills to continuously grow the quality of story and apply a consistent selection, including a good eye for fit. our service delivery. For each job level, Deloitte has a development journey that has a strong and diverse curriculum focused on soft A truly distinctive experience is provided by offering career and leadership skills. We renewed our curriculum for pre-managers enhancing assignments, and broad development in a healthy workwith the pre-manager journey. A total of 2,500 employees went life environment. We recognise that a career model must reflect on this journey in the year. In addition, for levels above manager the needs of a new generation with reward systems that are more we collaborated with other Deloitte EMEA member firms within flexible, and that people leadership should be at the core of our Deloitte University, offering participants a sound professional leadership development efforts. curriculum and the opportunity to collaborate in an international platform. Taking pride The year 2015/2016 brought unprecedented growth for Deloitte. Our approach to training and education, where we combine formal As our business relies on our ability to deploy motivated people training with on-the-job training, regular feedback and coaching, who want to deliver quality services to our clients, growth has a makes Deloitters sought after on the labour market, creating value major impact on our talent management. We take particular pride for the people concerned and for society at large. in numerous achievements in this area: Global trends demand a structured response 1. Attracting talent with our employee value proposition We have identified five major trends in the area of talent that In a highly competitive market, we were able to recruit some 1,300 require us to ensure our continuity and safeguard our ability to talented, creative and highly educated employees. In recruiting, make an impact that matters: we not only look at the traditional academic studies (finance, economics and tax) but increasingly, at the smaller faculties. People 1. Search for purpose choose Deloitte because of the variety in clients and assignments The new generation of employees want a meaningful employment. and the innovations that we develop in our services. Deloitte is The desire to make a positive contribution to clients and society perceived as an environment that enables personal growth and has become stronger. Deloitte’s purpose of ‘making an impact that innovation while maintaining a ambitious yet informal, friendly and matters’ helps us convey our ambitions. professional atmosphere. 2. Open talent networks 2. High level of engagement More and more, there is a shift away from the traditional Growth puts stress on an organisation. In the past year we were relationship between employer and employee. We are part of an able to grow rapidly in Advisory services. We also implemented open network, where specialists form occasional relationships significant and necessary quality transformations within Audit. to solve a specific problem. In this way, we cooperate with others We were able to do so due to the high levels of engagement and either as a contractor or as sub-contractor. motivation of our employees. Throughout the year our people demonstrated quality, innovation and yes, they also worked 3. Leadership capability gaps extremely hard! Good leadership is critical to a company’s success. Increasingly, we are looking at broader leadership capabilities, which means that we look beyond traditional expertise such as professional, commercial and people capabilities, and also look for leadership within society. 37 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Become the #1 career destination The identification and development of leadership in this regard is Diversity in every possible aspect (gender, ethnicity, age, sexual an important element of our Talent 2020 strategy, which is partly orientation and culture) is important because we are convinced expressed in an increased attention for leadership capabilities in that diverse teams are able to deliver even better and more our training and education programmes. balanced services to our clients. It is our ambition to increase the level of diversity in our workforce over the next few years. 4. Skills shortages Given the breadth of our diversity definition and the nature and Increasingly, demanding areas such as the digital economy volatility of our business, it is impossible to provide specific targets and cybersecurity, require hyper specialisation that allows other than that we will gradually improve in areas such as gender organisations to make a difference by supplying deep knowledge. It and ethnic diversity. In line with the requirements from the GRI is impossible to have all the required knowledge under one roof, so G4 Guidelines, we will continue to provide data on gender and we team up with other highly specialised service providers to add ethnic diversity to our stakeholders so they can keep track of our value to our clients. progress against our stated commitment. 5. Global virtual talent pool We are increasingly becoming an integrated firm and actively cooperate with other member firms, especially within north-west Europe. This means that we can utilise the talent of other member firms and in turn, they can deploy our talent. Our Talent 2020 Strategy aims to address each of these trends, allowing Deloitte to fulfil its ambitions. In an environment where models other than the traditional employer-employee relationship are likely to play a more important role in our service delivery (see points 2, 4 and 5 above), it is likely that our talent department will extend its role to reward, support and control the quality of our flexible shield. Getting the right talented people on board We are active in the labour market to recruit talented future Deloitters through various media including our innovative recruitment website (www.werkenbijdeloitte.nl). We support this site with social media such as Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn. Furthermore, we actively seek the support of our 5,000 employees when searching for new talent. For the attraction of new – inexperienced – hires, our recruiters actively organise events on university campuses or we invite students to our offices to learn more about the possibilities of working with Deloitte in their area of expertise. Through these and other programmes we strive to provide future colleagues on the Deloitte culture and experience and what it feels like to be Deloitte. For experienced hires we have more tailored programs and criteria to ensure the right match between competencies, experience and Deloitte requirements. Strength from diversity One of the areas where we know we must improve is diversity. Despite our efforts over the past few years to make our processes diversity proof, we have not yet reached satisfactory results in this area. 38 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Become the #1 career destination Table 02: Gender diversity Diversity figures female (%) 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Partners 9% 9% 8% Directors 14% 12% 11% Senior managers 23% 22% 21% Managers 27% 27% 27% Aspirant / Jr. managers 36% 35% 33% Other staff 50% 52% 56% Table 03: Ethnic diversity* Employment category % Foreign % Native % Unknown Partners 2% 67% 31% Directors 10% 83% 7% Senior managers 10% 76% 14% Managers 14% 74% 12% Aspirant / Jr. managers 17% 71% 12% Other staff 18% 73% 9% Interns 24% 64% 12% * In line with the GRI Reporting Guidelines, we report Ethnic diversity on the basis of ancestry. ‘Native’ refers to those whose parents are originally of Dutch descent. ‘Foreign’ refers to persons from whom one or both parents are not originally of Dutch descent. ‘Unknown’ refers to those from whom the place of birth or origin of one or both parents is not recorded due to the voluntary nature of the provision of this type of information. 39 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Become the #1 career destination Providing a healthy and safe work environment online training, they learn to restore their own energy balance by Working for Deloitte can be demanding. As people are our multiplying positive energy sources and reducing the negative most important asset, it is of great importance that we keep ones. The result is a greater drive and motivation, less stress and our workforce healthy and fit. Next to physical fitness, we offer improved problem-solving abilities. subsidised memberships of fitness clubs, and increasingly have an eye for the mental fitness of our talent. In the context of team We have started to centrally coordinate existing sports activities resilience improvement, we offer vitality programmes to a number in order to reach a larger number of Deloitters. Prior to sporting of teams. These programmes have been developed in cooperation events, such as runs, we organise clinics and workshops to provide with our health insurer and are aimed at leadership and individual expert advice in areas such as training and nutrition. employees. At present, four teams have been enrolled as well as 40 individual employees. In order to reduce sickness leave, we deploy a number of activities. Our health coaches offer line managers a structured guidance from The purpose of the leadership programme is to build leadership the first day of sick leave of their direct reports. In addition, we use skills that strengthen the resilience of people. Leadership must be preventive measures such as workshops and coaching sessions aware that positive leadership makes a significant contribution to for managers to recognise and prevent downtime of employees. self-confidence and behavioural changes across team members, Furthermore, we maintain a robust operating model that involves and therefore leads to higher performance. company doctors, health coaches and managers working together on cases. On the level of individual employees, employees are taught skills to strengthen their vitality. Through one-on-one workshops and Table 04: Absenteeism 2015/2016 2014/2015 Total Male Female Total Male Female Lost days 35,878 15,530 20,348 31,921 15,303 16,618 Sickness leave 2.8% 1.8% 4.5% 2.7% 2.0% 4.1% 40 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Become the #1 career destination Creating value through the Deloitte Impact Foundation process of further defining our strategy and our PMO and expect For many years, we have made an impact on society through to be fully operational in the second half of 2016. Due to the startthe Fair Chance Foundation. Through partnerships in which we up of the Deloitte Impact Foundation, we have set an intermediate contributed time, money and expertise, we have actively engaged target of 15,000 hours for the fiscal year 2016/2017. Furthermore, with children from underprivileged areas, improving their chances we are exploring ways to make volunteering and pro-bono work in the labour market. In valuable partnerships with organisations part of our appraisal and career development programmes. such as JINC, Leeruniek, NJR and NIBUD, we have trained young To support our commitment, we have started working with the people on how to deal with money, how to behave in job interviews One Percent Club to set up a dedicated platform that offers userand more generally improve their skills. friendly tools to share time, knowledge and money. Once this platform is operational, Deloitte employees will be able to initiate Our purpose and Strategy 2020 has created a new momentum an action page, encouraging others to either participate or raise in our thinking about our impact on society. In 2015/2016 we funds for one of the projects on the platform (crowdsourcing & reassessed our ambitions in this area. As a result, we have crowdfunding). Deloitte employees will be given the necessary transformed the Fair Chance Foundation into the Deloitte Impact tools to enthuse their colleagues and the platform will list all Foundation, thereby articulating the link between our purpose projects (including experiences). Both progress and impact will and the foundation’s activities as a natural part of our way of doing become visible and we will have insight into Deloitte’s contribution business. as both engagement and social impact will be measured. The platform is also open to NGOs that can create projects for which The name change also reflects the giant leap we are taking. Where employees can offer their time, knowledge or money directly. until now, the activities of the foundation were modest in terms of Participating NGOs will keep our employees informed of the scope, number of Deloitte professionals involved and budget, we progress of the project. have committed to spend 1 percent of our direct hours to make a greater impact that matters on society. This implies that we aim for a total of 45,000 hours spent on activities that are in scope of this target. These activities include large projects, entrepreneurial projects and volunteering (additional positions/social functions) by Deloitte professionals. An example of a large project is our current pro-bono work for the Red Cross. This initiative is focused on improving the way refugees in the Netherlands make use of and gain access to information, digital communication and functionalities. The aim is to complete a detailed design of a tangible concept/prototype which could be implemented in later stages of the initiative. Examples of entrepreneurial projects are job interview trainings, Hacking for Charity, the National Money Exam and learning programmes that help to improve entrepreneurial skills. To achieve our 1 percent ambition, we have changed the governance of the Foundation. The board consists of our CEO Peter Bommel, our COO Mario van Vliet and Mrs Lizan Goossens on behalf of the partner community. The Board is supported by an Advisory Board and a Project Management Organisation (PMO). The Advisory Board is composed of four partners and five ‘transformers’, young Deloitte professionals who are passionate about making a societal impact that matters. The Advisory Board is tasked with advising the Board proactively and on demand on the suitability and eligibility of proposed projects. Once approved by the Board, the execution of the projects is overseen by the PMO. Project proposals can originate within and outside Deloitte. Every proposal is judged against our admission criteria. To this end we have defined three themes: education, scaling social innovation and a resilliant society. Projects that are in scope with one or more of these themes, are eligible for rewarding. The involvement of Deloitte allows for the collective deployment of our knowledge in line with the services that we render to our clients. We are in the 41 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016  42 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 Helping clients become leading edge The unstoppable rise of new technology has “Our strength is that we are on top of industry and markets developments, are transformed our world and is forging a bold new future able to offer strategic thinking, creative for businesses large and small. Companies turn to solutions and have the capability to build digital solutions. That is how we add value Deloitte Digital with the question: How can our business to our clients,” says Sunaina Braam, who succeed by using information and technology? Deloitte joined one year ago as a business analyst in the Deloitte Digital service line, after Digital helps organisations develop a clear vision and working as a communications advisor to a bring that vision to life. large telecommunications company. “I love the diversity of our multidisciplinary teams and the broad range of backgrounds that come together on digital projects,” she says. “Deloitte is exceptional in that regard because you find yourself surrounded by intelligent, hard-working, ambitious people who have the same goals in mind.” Deloitte is a dynamic environment in which you encounter a different setting and industry with each new mandate, Sunaina explains. It is an excellent environment for those looking to constantly improve themselves and find new ways to offer more value and make an impact for our clients. Sunaina Braam Business Analyst Digital Strategy 43 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Accelerate growth and innovation Accelerate growth and innovation 30 % W e want to make an ongoing shift towards premium clients in our client portfolio. This implies higher growth Revenue growth in Corporate Advisory in our corporate and upper mid-market segments. To stay relevant for these clients in a world of shortening product life cycles and digitalisation, we will continue to invest to build solutions and a reputation as the most innovative professional services firm. 45 % We will significantly and profitably grow our Advisory business in Average profitability in growth areas the corporate and upper mid-market business over the next three to five years. We have selected a focussed number of growth areas as our priority investments, for example, M&A/PMI, Digital and 16 % Cybersecurity. We have designed an investment plan that will of revenues from innovative offerings guarantee full and long-term support for these growth areas. Finally, we will also continue to invest more than 1 percent of our In line with the vision from DTTL, we apply a factor yearly revenue in ‘fundamental’ innovation and the improved 2 multiplier to calculate the effect from innovative commercialisation of our innovations. service offerings on regular services Accelerating growth 49 After years in a challenging market environment for our clients Publicly available reports in the corporate market, which we define as businesses with revenues that exceed €1 billion a year, we have achieved remarkable revenue growth in all sectors. This growth was facilitated by our industry-focused approach in Financial Services 44 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Accelerate growth and innovation (+ 29%); Consumer Business (+14%); Technology, Media & Telecom is our European Next Gen study that concentrates on the business (+ 15%); Manufacturing (+ 14%) and Energy & Resources (+ 23%). challenges next generation executives are – or will be – facing. The study covers 19 countries across Europe, the Middle East and Throughout 2015/2016, we contributed to large business Africa and is based on 92 in-depth, face-to-to-face interviews with transformations at the heart of our clients’ businesses. These often next generation representatives from family-owned companies. took place in the context of new regulations in Financial Services, a changing landscape in the Telecom sector, digital disruption in the For the ninth consecutive year we ran our successful BMCretail industry, and efforts to drive new innovation processes at programme, which recognises the Best Managed Companies large corporations. in the middle/large company segment. We also organised the widely recognised Deloitte Fast50 programme for the 16th time, In addition, we supported the ecosystem approach within the which profiles innovative fast-growing companies. Both BMC and technology space through our High Tech Competence Center Fast50 programmes contribute to our growth, especially in the situated at the High Tech Campus in Eindhoven and created longer term, not only in revenues but also in further improving our valuable partnerships with Singularity University and Cambridge relations with clients and creating a continuous awareness for our Innovation Center that actively contributed to the innovation brand within these segments. ecosystem. We are partner of the recently opened Singularity University in Eindhoven. Additionally, we also are founding partner Our innovative Ctrl platform offers a comprehensive set of online together with Shell and Rabobank of Startup Fest Europe. Deloitte services for a fixed and highly competitive price. Services include Center for the Edge is helping organisations with important accounting and advice, and cover topics including strategy, innovation projects and developing new business models across optimisation of accounting processes, and management and all industries and is proud to be the leading professional service control. Ctrl enables our clients to directly access Deloitte’s provider in this area. expertise and connect with business partners and authorities. Over the last year, the Ctrl client base increased significantly. We secured promising new mandates as part of the mandatory audit rotation, resulting in the largest number of AEX-listed We are proud that the potential of Ctrl is now also recognised in companies as our audit clients. Important reasons for clients that North America. Deloitte Canada chose Ctrl as their platform for choose Deloitte include our innovative audit approach with data providing the same services. Together, we can bring Ctrl to the analytics in its core. We also shared knowledge in our markets next level and make it a leading platform for SME companies in the and provided our clients with new insights through a number of Netherlands, Canada and beyond. dedicated activities, focusing on themes such as cybersecurity, data analytics and digital. The most innovative firm As part of our implementation of the Strategy 2020, in 2015/2016 Examples of these activities include our ‘Around the Boardroom’ we re-assessed our Innovation Strategy. It is the cornerstone of programme in which we covered trends, topics and developments this strategy that we continue our journey to become ‘the most affecting board executives, non-executive directors and regulators. innovative professional services firm in the Netherlands’ and to this Another example is our ‘Deloitte Center for the Edge’ programme. end, we will keep investing at least 1 percent of our total revenue As pressure grows on public and private organisations to meet on innovation. Our commitment to innovation is also expressed demands driven by public policy and exponential technologies, by our sponsorship of and knowledge sharing with the Nuon Solar this initiative aims to help executives make sense of emerging Challenge team. opportunities on the leading edge of business and technology. Governance to foster innovation Our Midmarket advisory business also continued to expand (+9.7%) As part of our Innovation Strategy we redesigned our innovation in the year as we benefitted from substantial growth opportunities, governance with a clear focus on innovation horizons. This especially in mergers & acquisitions. means our Functions / Industries focus on core & adjacent innovation and that Deloitte Innovation BV focusses on adjacent We continued – and intensified – our focus on family businesses & transformational innovations. For us, core innovations are through our EMEA Deloitte Family Business initiative that gathers improvements and a natural evolution of current services. Adjacent market information about this segment and looks to develop innovations are innovations linked to our current services but relevant new products and services. An example of this was our based on a new technology, delivery process, business model, etc. continued collaboration with FD Mediagroep to create a crossTransformational innovations are new to Deloitte and our clients, media production of financial newspaper het Financieele Dagblad and are based on completely new technologies that are often and radio station BNR, which follows ten next-generation leaders developed in-house, and usually take multiple years to develop. of family businesses and is entitled ‘De Opvolgers’. We continuously conduct research to guarantee we have first class and up-toTo progress innovation in the Functions, we have appointed date data on trends and developments that are crucial to family Innovation Leaders in all Functions. They are tasked with businesses, which we can share with our clients. An example of this developing innovation plans and budgets per Function and 45 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Accelerate growth and innovation monitoring progress on a monthly basis. Their efforts and the Our brand ‘breathes’ innovation activities of Deloitte Innovation are overseen by the Innovation Our aspiration is to be the undisputed leader in professional Committee that is led by our CEO and consists of our Function services. This includes being recognised as the most innovative Leaders, Industry Leaders and our Innovation Leader. partner by our clients and our (future) talent. To stay relevant for our clients in a world of shortening product life cycles and Understanding change digitalisation, we will continue to invest in our aspiration to be the In order to help our people and our clients fully understand the most innovative professional services firm. implications of fast-changing business environments and client demand, we take every opportunity to voice our opinion and to Where there have been opportunities to do so, we have associated contribute to a constructive debate. On a quarterly basis, our our brand with leadership and innovation and focused it on the Center for the Edge hosts events on disruptive innovations for the following growth areas for Deloitte: cybersecurity, data analytics CEOs of our leading clients. Furthermore, in 2015/2016, we hosted and digital. In doing so, we employ an innovative content-driven or participated in over 150 events, presentations and workshops strategy to reach our stakeholders in a more visible, innovative for Deloitte clients and our own people on disruptive innovations and personal way. We use online channels and social media to such as big data, blockchain, e-Health, smart traffic and crowd share our opinion, vision and knowledge about these themes on sourcing. a regular basis. Our online content campaign on Dutch news sites has highlighted our insights and perspectives in these areas. We Developing new capabilities, products and services to meet have also used online social networks to optimise the impact of client demands this campaign, which yielded strong results and excellent visibility In order to respond to our clients’ demands, we continuously in our markets. Deloitte is now one of the leading brands within invest in new capabilities and develop new products and services professional social networks for content impact among Dutch that are relevant to them. We are investing a great deal of time executives. and effort in building capabilities to enable clients to achieve the maximum advantage from upcoming technologies such as This content-driven strategy comprised several projects in the advanced analytics, data transformation, the internet of things and year. For example, in July 2015, we communicated new research blockchain. To this end, we are building and participating in various from our State of the State research programme, which included innovative ecosystems, including Singularity University, Cambridge published studies on education, the Dutch labour market, the Innovation Center (CIC), High Tech Campus, The Tipping Point and future of nursing homes and vacancy real estate. The research was The Garden, to name a few. Our participation in these ecosystems based on data analytics and communicated at executive round allows us access to innovative technological developments at an tables, via our website, and through newspapers and social media. early stage, and to co-create solutions and build partnerships. In addition, via the national media, we communicated our data research on the success factors of start-ups that we conducted In 2015/2016, our innovation efforts resulted in more than 30 new together with THNK (School of Creative Leadership). This study products and services delivered to market within almost every reveals the characteristics that can make a start-up a successful Function and Industry. Examples include WKR (fiscal labour costs) scale-up. Analytics, Digital Global Steps, Social Impact Bonds, Financial Crime Analytics, Assuring Medical Apps and Change Adaption Profiler. We To share our knowledge on new technologies and cybersecurity have also continued our efforts around working with fast-growing with future talent, as well as with clients, in the year we organised tech companies on behalf of our clients through the Deloitte several HackLab Highschool workshops for youngsters between ENTER programme that was started in May 2016. the ages of 12 and 16 who are interested in technology. HackLab Highschool is an interactive day about cybersecurity during which Recognition Deloitte shares the newest technologies and teaches children Our efforts in the area of innovation are recognised by our about the risks of our online world. Another example of our stakeholders and by DTTL, our global network organisation, which thought leadership in cybersecurity is our study on cyber value regards us as one of the two leading Deloitte member firms in the at risk in the Netherlands, which details and quantifies the risk of area of innovation worldwide. Our Deloitte Data Transformation losses from cyber-attacks within the Netherlands for the first time. Platform (DDTP) was selected to be Deloitte’s global standard for During the year we also published research about the digital data handling. One of our earlier innovations, Process x-Ray, was influence on the retail industry and on insurance companies. highlighted by Kennedy Research when they named Deloitte a Digitalisation not only changes the way consumers behave online, ‘Global Leader in Procurement Operations Consulting’. It is worth but has an impact on their needs and behaviour offline. Both noting that people who work with innovation at Deloitte also have studies focus on the digital transformation that companies must go higher engagement scores (7.3 out of 10 in Q2) compared with the through to meet the expectations of tomorrow’s consumers. average for the Deloitte community as a whole. 46 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Establish lean operations Establish lean operations 5.8 % Reduction of overhead as % of total revenue Relative position in international 11 8 network with regard to operational metrics 47 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Establish lean operations Maintaining a competitive edge Suppliers associated with a poor performance in the areas of Our goal is to be the undisputed leader in professional services. environmental management, labour conditions or human rights In a world where resources are scarce, this means that we actively are not aligned to our values and can cause damage to our seek opportunities to enhance our efficiency in every aspect of our reputation. In addition, we see that an increasing number of business. Only by working as efficiently as we can, can we maintain clients demand that we enhance our performance in supply chain our ability to create value for our stakeholders. responsibility. We need to constantly invest in quality, talent and innovation. In response to these concerns, we launched our Supplier Code By improving the efficiency of our operations, we reduce costs of Conduct in 2013. This Code contains the basic organisational and unlock funds to continue making necessary investments. requirements that we want our suppliers to comply with in the This implies that we have to be smarter in how we organise areas of environmental management, labour conditions, human our operations, avoiding unnecessary costs and deployment rights and business ethics. Each major supplier is asked to submit a of our talent. Working efficiently also implies that we limit our self-assessment based on our requirements and – if non-compliant consumption of natural resources to reduce our ecological with one or more provisions – to indicate what measures they will footprint. take to reach compliance, as well as the timeframe within which full compliance is expected. By the end of the reporting year, 65.0 % of A culture of cost consciousness our total supplier spend was covered by our compliance statement. Our overhead costs constitute a substantial part of our cost base. Next to sending out the self-assessment to existing suppliers By improving our cost efficiency, we aim to maintain the high where we have a significant spend (> €50,000 per annum), we have quality of our back office while reducing our costs to levels that are included supply chain responsibility in all new tenders initiated comparable with other Deloitte member firms. by our Procurement department. We safeguard independence towards our supplier-clients through our business relations Our aim is to reduce overhead costs both on a central and at assessment process. a Function level. Similarly, our support organisation aims to optimally support our practice. We also aim to enhance operational In last year’s Report, we described a dilemma concerning efficiencies in parts of Audit, Tax and the Public Sector. housing as our suppliers in this area are often foreign investment companies for whom the Supplier Code of Conduct is not relevant. One of the programmes under ‘Establish lean operations’ is Fit We indicated that we would benchmark how our peers are dealing for Growth. Our research shows that Deloitte in the Netherlands with this issue. This issue has yet been resolved. has further room for savings in overhead costs. We can achieve this by improving efficiency, for example, through automation and In addition to the organisational requirements as set out in our robotics, and by making choices in our support model and the Supplier Code, we have continued our approach of addressing services we offer. In the context of our Fit for Growth programme, relevant sustainability elements in the specifications that we we have mapped numerous efficiency-enhancing and cost-saving maintain for the goods that we purchase. For example, at our opportunities across various departments. This has been a new Amsterdam office ‘The Edge’ we have included sustainability conscious process. requirements in both the design of the building as well as for the inventory we have purchased. We do note that given the growth of the business, investments are also required. In this regard, we have approved increased Efficient use of natural resources reduces our ecological investments in innovation and growth, learning and development footprint and in the budget of the Deloitte Impact Foundation. We will do We use energy to heat, cool and power our offices, to run our this in combination with cost savings in operations and support. servers and to visit our clients or drive home after a working day. Energy consumption impacts the environment. The main impact Part of an ethical value chain comes from emissions of greenhouse gasses such as CO2. As a Our suppliers deliver goods and services that are critical to our professional services provider, our impacts are limited compared business. The main categories of goods and services that we to other industries. Nonetheless, Deloitte feels that it is the acquire include housing, insurance, lease cars, facility management, obligation of every economic actor to use scarce resources as ICT hardware and software, temporary staff, energy, fuel and efficiently as possible and to actively search for environmentally travel. We aim to avoid buying goods and services that jeopardise friendlier alternatives. This conviction is shared by our clients and our ambition to be the undisputed leader in professional services. our people, among other stakeholders. In addition, saving energy Our Purchasing Terms & Conditions contain provisions on issues and avoiding and recycling waste reduces cost and contributes to such as integrity, corporate responsibility, corruption and conflicts our strategic objectives. of interest. 48 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Establish lean operations Environmental management Average CO2 emissions have been determined for each fuel type To facilitate the reduction of our environmental footprint, in in each lease category. Employees receive a bonus if they opt for 2013 we adopted the Deloitte Environmental Policy Statement a company car with lower CO2 emissions. A penalty is calculated which we submitted to a review in 2015. In 2015, we obtained ISO in the event of higher CO2 emissions. On an annual basis, the CO2 14001 certification for our Environmental Management System. emissions are monitored – and where possible – further adjusted. This means that, besides monitoring, we periodically review our Additionally, all employees are issued an NS Business Card, which activities and implement improvements where necessary. allows them to travel by train. The use of the NS Business Card provided for over 136 thousand journeys by train, accounted for a Energy and CO2 total of 6.6 million train kilometres in the year. To limit energy related emissions in facilities where we are the main tenant, we purchase green electricity and gas, meaning that there are no direct and indirect emissions in relation to our energy consumption. In offices where we cannot purchase green energy, we offset related emissions through the acquisition of green certificates. Our energy coordinator is responsible for periodically collecting the energy data in our offices. To underpin our commitment to green energy, Deloitte participated in Earth Hour on March 19, 2016. During Earth Hour, the lights in and on our Head Quarters in Rotterdam were switched off together with the lights of the neighbouring buildings. When making housing decisions, we take environmental considerations into account. In the past, we have used the GreenCalc methodology for our offices in Rotterdam and Utrecht, and more recently, have applied the BREEAM framework to our offices in Amsterdam and Eindhoven. For a professional services provider such as Deloitte, mobility is vital. However, mobility, which includes lease cars, flights and public transport, is also an important contributor to our carbon footprint. For lease cars, Deloitte maintains a green lease policy that encourages eligible employees to choose energy efficient lease cars and discourages the lease of cars that do not meet our predefined criteria. In practice this means that we only include cars with a predetermined fuel economy on our preferred lease car list and, in addition to a maximum allowed CO2 emissions of 165 grams per kilometre, our lease car programme includes an environmental correction in the form of a bonus/penalty scheme. Furthermore, we have added electric cars to facilitate employees’ desire to limit their carbon footprint. Today, we lease 213 electric cars out of a total of 3,259 cars. All our offices are equipped with chargers for electric cars. 49 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Establish lean operations Table 05: Energy consumption and related emissions Related emissions 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 2016 Housing Total electricity 10,596,079 kWh 11,690,244 kWh 13,550,598 kWh consumption Specific electricity 122,9 kWh/m2 121.5 kWh/m2 128.5 kWh/m2 consumption Total thermal energy 19,556 GJ 24,016 GJ 29,268 GJ consumption Specific thermal energy 0.22 GJ/m2 0.25 GJ/m2 0.28 GJ/m2 consumption Mobility Total kilometres driven 97,312,625 km 93,250,713 km 90,842,707 km by lease cars Number of lease cars 3,259 3,069 3,036 electric cars (incl plug-in hybrids) *** 213 Kilometres/lease car 29,860 km 30,385 km 29,922 km Total petrol consumption 3,170,625 l 3,499,430 l 3,897,919 l 8,814 tonnes Total diesel consumption 2,527,930 l 2,410,966 l 1,945,362 l 7,925 tonnes Total LPG consumption 0l 0l 71 l Electricity consumption 298,782 kWh of electric cars Total kilometres travelled 37,781182 km 29,070,464 km 28,581,512 km 4,816 tonnes by air* Kilometres by air per FTE 7,858 km 6,430 km 6,616 km Total kilometres travelled 6,559,840 km 4,388,302 km 2,482,049 km 197 tonnes by train Train kilometres/FTE 1,364 km 971 km 575 km Direct CO2 emissions / 5,136 5,633 5,578 lease car in kg CO2 emissions 154 g CO2/km 170 g CO2/km 168 g CO2/km intensity** Totals Total direct energy 198,844 GJ 265,678 GJ 245,082 GJ consumption Total CO2 emissions 21,752 tonnes 21,563 tonnes 20,228 tonnes * The data for air travel exclude tickets that were purchased on behalf of DTTL. ** This is the sum of all mobility-related CO2 emissions divided by the total distance travelled by car, plane or train by Deloitte partners and employees *** Not measured for the years 2014/2015 and 2013/2014 50 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Establish lean operations Waste Office waste is categorised as follows to allow for recycling: • Paper • Swill (such as food remains) • Cardboard • Small hazardous waste (such as batteries) • Refuse (remaining after the separation of recyclable elements) Paper, refuse and cardboard are collected on every office floor. Swill and small hazardous waste are collected centrally per office building. We only use FSC certified paper for printing and in 2015/2016 further reduced the amount of paper we used to 96,298 kilograms, from 177,697 kilograms in 2014/2015. Our waste recycling rate stood at 49% compared to 58% in 2014/2015. The reason for this decrease is that our total collected waste has decreased more than the non-recyclable fraction in our waste. Table 06: Other environmental indicators 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Total paper consumption 96,298 kg 177,697 kg 220,443 kg Paper consumption/FTE 20.0 kg 39.3 kg 51.0 kg Total collected waste 271,368 kg 378,048 kg 380,470 kg Total waste collected for 132,205 kg 218,052 kg 227,502 kg recycling Waste recycling % 49% 58% 60% Hazardous waste 223 kg 222 kg 491 kg 51 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016  Validating technology for the healthcare industry The market for mobile medical apps has grown exponentially, driven by the widespread adoption of mobile computing among healthcare professionals. This has led to an increasing need by app developers to externally validate their technology before bringing their products to market. D eloitte Senior Manager and certified accountant Rob Peters first considered the possibility of offering a dedicated validation service for medical apps after attending a healthcare conference. He later presented his idea at a Deloitte Innovation Workshop, where it was selected for development and eventually launched as a service in 2015. “I was fascinated because the possibilities with digital health solutions were clearly endless, but there were many security and privacy issues,” he explains. “My view was, if we as auditors can validate financial figures for a company, then why not the privacy and security of an app?” The Assuring Medical Apps team comprises accountants, security and privacy experts and ‘ethical hackers’. They help to ensure apps are handling personal data correctly and are well protected against cybercrime. In doing so, they enable developers to market their products with confidence. “I’ve chosen to be at Deloitte for the last ten years because it is the sort of organisation that will give you a wide range of experiences,” says Rob. “If you want to and are willing to put in the effort, you can achieve a lot – even develop your own product for clients within Deloitte itself.” Rob Peters Senior Manager Risk Advisory Technology Enabled Solutions 52 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 53 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Improve client portfolio Improve client portfolio 54 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Improve client portfolio Making a meaningful impact on our clients Once there is a signed engagement letter and the team has been We create and maintain sustainable and rewarding client formed, the engagement can be executed. Deloitte has formal relationships in which we can have a meaningful impact. To free Quality Assurance policies for all services. These stipulate which up our resources to serve those clients and improve our returns type of engagements quality assurance procedures will apply to. we must continuously review the quality of our portfolio. We want to maintain our broad footprint across all our current market After the work has been completed, the engagement is closed and segments, but have become increasingly selective about who the engagement documents and files are archived. Client Feedback we serve. We aim to deliver high-quality, professional services is sought, for example, by means of a Client Service Assessment, at a price that is reasonable, which implies that we improve or using interviews and online questionnaires. This feedback is used terminate our commercial relationships with clients that do not to continuously improve our services to clients. value our quality or reward us accordingly. Client feedback is a dialogue between Deloitte partners and We continue to carefully review our portfolio to determine representatives and key client contacts that takes the conversation whether or not to maintain the relationship via a comprehensive beyond ‘what we are doing’ to ‘how we are doing’. It provides multidisciplinary process. Successful execution is actively clients with an opportunity to express whether Deloitte is meeting monitored. We have also conducted a detailed profitability their current needs, their overall perception of the organisation, assessment of our clients and based on this assessment and what actions should be taken to meet and exceed their commercial thresholds for absolute yearly fees and gross margin expectations. were determined. Clients that do not meet these thresholds are almost always non-profitable or below average profitability. During 2015/2016 we started open conversations with our clients Prospect and opportunity to discuss our impact and the fees we receive in return. The results were positive in that our returns have improved and additional actions have been identified to align our available capacity with the anticipated workload. Assignments that are too small and/or do not Client and engagement acceptance have a reasonable return will be discontinued to free up resources for the assignments we would like to focus on, especially in our audit business. This will allow us to further improve the quality of our services and the balance of the workload for our resources. Engagement team formation This project will continue in 2016/2017. The engagement lifecycle, our business process to ensure quality Engagement execution In general, our standard business process can be depicted as follows: Our market focus is based on building relationships with existing Quality assurance and potential clients. The start of our business lifecycle begins with the identification of a business opportunity with an existing or potential client. Finalise engagement Deloitte has strict client and engagement acceptance processes to ensure we comply with all applicable laws (such as independence regulations), but also to ensure we understand who we do business with, and that our clients and the type of services Client feedback we provide are consistent with our values, and do not pose reputational risks. During the acceptance phase, we also identify possible client and/or engagement risks and define mitigation measures. In combination with the formal acceptance of a client or engagement, the engagement team is formed. In this formation, the independence of the team members involved is reviewed. To enable us to provide a high quality service, the formation of the appropriate team is a critical step. 55 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Seek internationalisation Seek internationalisation 89.1 % Growth in interfirm revenue and teaming 56 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Seek internationalisation Globalisation calls for international integration Traditionally, firms in our industry are set up to serve national markets, and the vast majority of clients served in national markets. Audit standards and tax regulations at this time were also predominantly national affairs. Today, our market has changed dramatically. Our clients are increasingly active across markets and have to comply with audit and tax regulations in a variety of jurisdictions. Technology has created a global market place and a new reality for our clients. Our advisory service offerings help clients shift to this reality and prepare them for tomorrow. The new reality asks for new competencies and capabilities from professional service providers such as Deloitte. Without international cooperation, where member firms can use each other’s knowledge and expertise, it is increasingly difficult to serve our ever-globalising client base. This form of international cooperation has existed across Deloitte for many years now. International cooperation can sometimes be difficult given that local interests can outweigh cross border benefits. For many years, Deloitte has embraced a Lead Client Service Partner (‘LCSP’) model whereby a LCSP is empowered to deliver the firm covering resources, quality and economics; speaking with one voice for Deloitte across the globe. We do note opportunities to expand on our current model and way of working. One of several examples being that under the current business model of independent nationally organised member firms, it is sub-optimal to work with national centres of expertise into international centres of expertise that are able to provide top-end solutions to our international clients. To realise the opportunities, the Deloitte member firms in North West Europe are exploring ways for further collaboration to serve our clients better, offer better development opportunities for our talent, improve our service offerings and align investments. 57 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Our interactions with stakeholders Our interactions with stakeholders Understanding the context we operate in Our aspiration is to be held up as a role model for quality, integrity, and positive change. To help us understand the implications of this aspiration, we continuously seek the opinions of our stakeholders. Understanding their expectations and defining a timely and adequate response to their issues and concerns, enables us to remain relevant and contributes to fulfilling our purpose of making an impact that matters. 58 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Our interactions with stakeholders Evolving market landscape Changing regulatory environment Our clients face emerging technologies, disruptive business models Our regulatory environment is changing, which includes not only and highly connected networks that are spread across markets our regulators, but also opinion leaders, NGOs and the media. (distributed networks). The service needs of our clients and the Increased attention and pressure on transparency, quality, integrity way we work are affected by these developments and require and independence is inherently leading to further rules and an increased speed of change. In addition, our ability to deliver regulations for our organisation and industry as a whole. consistent, high quality services across the globe is becoming increasingly important. Neither our clients nor our competition are geographically bound or limited to traditional market players. Developing labour market The labour market is changing and so are our workforce requirements. The profile of the professionals that we need to be successful is more diverse than before as both our clients and the offerings we need to provide are changing. This means that we also have to engage engineers, psychologists, scientists and other specialists to address today’s business challenges. The nature of labour relationships is also evolving. Millennials have different career perspectives and online platforms provide mechanisms to collaborate without boundaries. It is up to us to remain compelling to the talent of the future and offer an outstanding career experience that attracts, retains and develops the best people. Society Media, Regulators opinion leaders & NGOs Clients & their Competitors shareholders Graduates Deloitte Suppliers Deloitte Our people network Financial Our partners institutions 59 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Our interactions with stakeholders We actively seek our stakeholders’ views Deloitte is an integral part of society. As such, we participate in a wide range of formal and informal dialogues. Next to this, we constantly scan the horizon for emerging issues to be able to define a timely response. Table 07: Means of stakeholder engagement Stakeholder group How we seek their views Clients & their shareholders Client Service Assessments Client meetings and events Requests for proposals Clients & Markets research External research and ratings Media scanning Our people Talent survey Works Council Formal and informal meetings Receiving feedback Our partners Formal and informal partner meetings Receiving feedback Graduates Surveys and research Participation in campus events Recruitment sessions Deloitte network Active participation in key DTTL governance bodies International cooperation around issues or assignments Regulators Formal and informal meetings Media scanning Media, Opinion leaders & NGOs One-on-one engagements Cooperation with knowledge institutes such as universities Media scanning Society Active participation of Deloitters in society Media scanning Competitors Active participation in trade and industry platforms One-on-one sessions around themes or issues Media scanning Suppliers Contract management Media scanning Financial institutions One-on-one engagements Media scanning 60 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our impact Our interactions with stakeholders Issues raised by our stakeholders Table 08: Material issues Our stakeholders voice their views and expectations. In Annex Final selection of material issues 2, we have included a table in which we summarise the main expectations and issues per stakeholder group. We also provide Quality, compliance & ethical standards our response to these expectations and issues and indicate how Privacy & data security we address them in our strategy. Innovation Client engagement Materiality matrix Diversity For the compilation of this report, we have mainly used the insights that we have obtained during the stakeholder engagement process Training & education that we concluded in 2014, which we have enriched with the Health & safety insights from key senior partners and staff. Indirect economic impact Supply chain responsibility We have plotted the issues raised by our stakeholder in a matrix, Ecological footprint taking into account the importance that each issue has for our stakeholders and its relevance to our strategy. We have grouped the issues in the top quadrant into the following list of issues that Making an impact that matters to our stakeholders are addressed throughout this report: Through our business model, strategy and corresponding execution we aim to make an impact that matters for all our stakeholders, addressing their expectations and concerns. Please refer to Annex 4 for highlights and key data on the impact we made in 2015/ 2016. Gaining insights and setting targets In last year’s Sustainability Report, we indicated that we would set new sustainability targets during 2015/2016 and would consult our stakeholders on these targets. Unfortunately, we were unable to finalise this consultation in the reporting year. We will finalise our stakeholder consultation in the new reporting year and will therefore issue our new targets in next year’s report. Materiality matrix •• Privacy •• Quality •• Public trust •• Data security •• Compliance Importance to our stakeholders •• Ecological footprint •• Independence •• Supply chain responsibility •• Innovation •• Diversity •• Client •• Indirect economic impact / engagement •• Waste social return •• Health & safety •• Use of materials •• Ethical standards •• Global network •• Employment •• Training & education •• Water •• Transparency •• Partnerships •• Local sourcing •• Impact on local communities •• Biodiversity •• Direct economic impact/ profitability Importance for our strategy 61 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Our w worki 62 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working ay of ng Ethics and integrity Roles and responsibilities Risk management 64 66 72 63 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working E  thics and integrity Ethics and integrity Ethics and integrity are part of our identity Our Code of Ethics is based on our Shared Values and our Global Code. The Code of Ethics determines our attitudes and behaviours as a professional business services provider. The National Ethics Officer heads our Ethics Office and is responsible for the design and implementation of our national Ethics & Compliance Programme, which is fully aligned with the Deloitte Global Ethics & Compliance Programme. 64 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working E  thics and integrity The activities of our Ethics Office include, but are not limited Anti-corruption to, being available for our colleagues to report and/or discuss A robust anti-corruption framework is vitally important to comply ethical dilemmas. The Ethics Officer is supported by a team of with national and international legislation. Furthermore, it four internal counsellors (‘vertrouwenspersonen’). To support our comprises processes aimed at preventing bribery and corruption, National Ethics Officer, we appointed a Deputy Ethics Officer in the for example in the areas of procurement and hiring new beginning of 2016. employees. An important element of our framework consists of training and awareness activities. To this end, in 2015/2016 we As part of our internal policies, the National Ethics Officer is started the roll-out of our online anti-corruption training that is involved in the performance management process for our mandatory for all partners and employees. Through the respective partners. For all partners, ethical behaviour is part and parcel of Function Leaders, our partners and employees were invited to the annual appraisals. At the end of 2015, we conducted our annual enrol in a mandatory e-learning aimed at avoiding corruption. Ethics Survey. An overall conclusion of this Survey is that awareness and familiarity levels in the job grades below manager are currently Reporting unethical behaviour insufficient. In response to this finding, our internal counsellors Employees, clients and other third parties have the possibility have engaged in awareness sessions throughout our firm. to file a complaint about unethical behaviour, or they can ask the (Deputy) Ethics Officer or one of the counsellors for advice. Global Code Clients and other third parties are encouraged to solve an issue In May 2016, we started the introduction of the Global Principles with their counterpart within Deloitte, but can also address the of Business Conduct. This Global Code outlines the commitments Complaints Committee if the issue is not solved according to their that every Deloitter makes and is based on our Shared Values expectations. Table 09 provides an overview of the number of (Integrity, Outstanding value to markets and clients, Commitment incidents that were brought to the attention of the Executive Board to each other and Strength from cultural diversity). The Global by the Ethics Officer. Code reflects our core belief that, at Deloitte, ethics and integrity are fundamental and non-negotiable. The Global Code applies throughout our international network and provides the foundation Table 09: Incidents, number of occurrences for how our people behave. Each member firm commits to the Type 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Global Code and, as appropriate, builds on it through one or more detailed codes of conduct. Sexual harassment 2 0 2 Intimidation 10 8 11 The twelve Global Principles address three categories of Deloitte stakeholders – our clients, our people and society –and are further Stalking 0 1 1 elaborated on in our Global Code: Other disrespectful •• Integrity treatment of 51 43 52 colleagues (incl. •• Quality bullying) •• Professional behaviour •• Objectivity Besides the incidents mentioned in table 10, in 35 instances the Ethics Officer was pro-actively consulted by the organisation. We •• Competence welcome the increase in consultations as in our view this indicates •• Fair business practice that in a growing number of cases, ethical dilemmas are recognised and addressed at an early stage, which helps prevent incidents •• Confidentiality, privacy and data protection from occurring. •• Respect, diversity and fair treatment •• Professional development and support •• Anti-corruption •• Responsible supply chain •• Social responsibility 65 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Roles and responsibilities Roles and responsibilities Good corporate governance is essential to ensuring economic growth in a global environment. Companies and industries that operate according to clear and effective codes of conduct will be more competitive, better prepared for challenges and will inspire investor confidence. Corporate governance is not only a matter of rules and regulations, but of quality of management, transparency, accountability and integrity. Adherence to a code that governs these areas is essential to ensuring that an organisation is managed in the best interests of its stakeholders. 66 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Roles and responsibilities Structure In order to optimise our structure as of June 1, 2015, the group structure of Deloitte was changed and a new Cooperative, Coöperatief Deloitte U.A., was introduced at the top of the organisation. As a result, the partners have exchanged their shares in Deloitte Holding B.V. for a membership of the cooperative. The new legal structure allows more flexibility. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Deloitte Holding B.V. Deloitte Deloitte Deloitte Deloitte Deloitte BelastingDeloitte Deloitte Financial Deloitte Group Innovation Risk Advisory Accountancy en Accountants adviseurs Consultancy Advisory Services Support Center Holding B.V. Advies B.V. B.V. B.V. Holding B.V. B.V. B.V. B.V. Deloitte Deloitte Forensic Ctrl B.V. Deloitte Legal. B.V. Deloitte Deloitte Benefits Deloitte Education Innovation & Dispute Services Consulting B.V. & Pension B.V. B.V. B.V. Advisory B.V. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. is the single shareholder of Deloitte Holding B.V. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of the Cooperative and Deloitte Holding are identical, creating a personal union between the two entities. The Dutch Corporate Governance Code Deloitte applies the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code to a large extent and in addition to applicable Dutch Civil Law. As a non-listed company, Deloitte is different to the companies for which the Code was intended. All its members contribute their labour and expertise, in addition to the provision of capital and subordinated loans. For this reason, Deloitte has modified its implementation of the Code in certain areas, two of which are described below. Deviations from the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board includes up to three internal members, who are members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. working within the company. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the majority of the members are external members. All external members, including the Chairman, are independent members as defined by the Code. All members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting at the nomination of the Supervisory Board, according to the procedures laid down in the Articles of Association. Specific rules and procedures have been drawn up to resolve any conflict of interest that may arise between an 67 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Roles and responsibilities internal member’s duties as a member of the Supervisory Board Executive Board and the member’s interest as member of the Coöperatief. Internal Deloitte is managed by an Executive Board that is responsible, members receive no remuneration for their activities as members among other areas, for creating a strategic and policy framework of the Supervisory Board. In March, 2016, the Deloitte Members and objectives, monitoring the implementation of policies and voted to approve a Supervisory Board comprising external maintaining cohesion between the company’s various service members only, to take effect in October 2016. Furthermore, a lines. The Executive Board reports to the Supervisory Board and Partner Committee will be formed to support the Supervisory to the General Meeting. The members of the Executive Board are Board in its new composition. collectively responsible for managing the company. The members of the Executive Board are appointed for a period of no more than Best practice four years, but may be re-appointed for one consecutive four-year Given the nature of the company, some of the best practices terms. required by the Dutch Corporate Governance Code cannot be applied in identical form within Deloitte, such as protective Responsibilities within the Executive Board are allocated as measures against takeovers, the certification of shares, the follows: publication of price-sensitive information and the information P.J. Bommel Chief Executive Officer and Chair supplied to and discussions held with parties in the financial M. van Vliet Chief Operations Officer markets. Furthermore, neither Executive Board nor Supervisory C.J.G.M. de Boer Chief Quality Officer (with Engelhardt Board members are granted share options. Robbe succeeding Cees de Boer, effective June 1, 2016 ) Governance Code for audit firms and the Public Interest Committee In June 2012, the Dutch auditing professional body (NBA) and a number of major audit firms, including Deloitte Accountants B.V., signed the Governance Code for audit firms. In April 2013, Deloitte introduced a Public Interest Committee pursuant to that Code. The Public Interest Committee comprises the external members of the Supervisory Board. The Committee focuses on public interest matters that may affect our firm, and supervises the implementation of regulations contained in the Audit Firms Governance Code. The Committee has an important role in our stakeholder dialogue. We refer to the Transparency Report for a full description of the activities of the Public Interest Committee and its focus point in rebuilding trust in the audit profession. The Minister of Economic Affairs has announced new legislation concerning inter alia the composition and authorities of supervisory boards of audit firms. Per October 1, 2016, Deloitte will implement a number of changes in anticipation of such legislation. One of these changes as previously discussed, is that as of October 1, 2016, our Supervisory Board will comprise external members only, with one seat reserved for a member firm from our international network. As per October 1, 2016, the Public Interest Committee will be dissolved and its tasks will be transferred to the Supervisory Board. Until then, the Supervisory Board and its Public Interest Committee remain dedicated to their public interest roles. 68 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Roles and responsibilities CEO CQO COO Executive commitee Function leads Market leads Support leads IL Public FL Audit FL Tax & Legal FL Consulting IL FSI HR lead Finance lead sector FL Risk IL Private Midmarket/ FL FAS RRL CSO Services sector SME Lead The performance of the Executive Committee is evaluated annually by the Executive Board. The Committee structure is flexible in order to meet the changing needs of the organisation. The Executive Board acts in the company’s best interest at all times when fulfilling its duties, taking into account the relevant interests of all stakeholders. It is responsible for observing relevant laws and regulations, managing the risks involved in the company’s activities and overseeing its financial affairs. The Executive Board reports on these matters to the Supervisory Board. Effective June 1, 2016 Engelhardt Robbe succeeded Cees de Boer as Chief Quality Officer. Avoiding conflicts of interest No member of the Executive Board takes part in discussions or decision-making processes that may give rise to a conflict of interest between the Board member and Deloitte. In such cases, Deloitte is normally represented by another person, who is appointed specifically for this purpose by the Supervisory Board. No transactions involving any potential or real conflict of interest, as defined by the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, took place in the year under review. Remuneration The remuneration of all members of the Executive Board is determined by the Supervisory Board, based on remuneration policies approved by the General Meeting on proposal of the Supervisory Board. In line with proposals made by the Dutch auditing professional body (NBA) (see below), the remuneration of the Executive Board members is fixed, and not related to the results of the company, except for a small part (below 20%) which is dependent on certain mid-term goals linked to quality and other public interest objectives. 69 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 | Our way of working Roles and responsibilities Executive Committee Appointment of Supervisory Board members The Executive Committee supports the Executive Board and has a Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General role with regards to decisions that affect the group as a whole. The Meeting on the basis of nominations made by the Supervisory Executive Committee currently consists of 16 members, reflecting Board. Members are appointed for a period of no more than four our present operating structure: years. An external member may serve for no more than three fouryear terms, an internal member for no more than two four-year •• Three members of the Executive Board (CEO, COO, CQO); terms. •• Function Leads, Market Leads and Support Leads Gender diversity in the Executive Board and Supervisory Supervisory Board Board The Supervisory Board consists of four independent external The Executive Board is presently composed of three men. The members and three internal members (partners). The Supervisory Supervisory Board will continue to look for diversity in the event Board oversees and advises the Executive Board and supervises of future re-appointments. In this respect it is important to note all general developments at Deloitte. The Supervisory Board that Deloitte pursues a number of management development is collectively responsible for the performance of its tasks and programmes aimed at increasing the number of women in Deloitte reports to the General Meeting. The Supervisory Board has a leadership positions. During the financial year 2015/2016, the number of Committees: Supervisory Board consisted of two women and five men. 1. Audit Committee General Meeting 2. Remuneration Committee The General Meeting brings together the entire member community. The General Meeting helps maintain Deloitte’s ‘checks 3. Selection & Nomination Committee and balances’ system. The Company’s budget, the company’s long4. Committee Partner Affairs term policy and various other matters referred to in the Articles of Association require the approval of the General Meeting. 5. Public Interest Committee (until October 1, 2016) 6. Quality & Risk Committee (as of October 1, 2016) External auditor The external auditor is appointed by the General Meeting, on Tasks of the Supervisory Board the recommendation of the Supervisory Board, advised by the In fulfilling its duties, the Supervisory Board always acts in the Executive Board and the Audit Committee. The same procedure company’s best interests, taking account of the relevant interests applies to the performance of any non-audit activities by the of all stakeholders. The Supervisory Board supervises the activities external auditor. At least once every four years, the Executive of the Executive Board, inter alia in relation to the following: Board and the Audit Committee evaluate the performance of the •• The realisation of the company’s objectives external auditor, paying particular attention to any other business relations the auditor maintains. The main conclusions of this •• The strategies pursued by the company and the risks involved evaluation are then submitted to the General Meeting as part •• The design and implementation of internal risk management, of the procedure for the appointment or re-appointment of the quality and control systems external auditor. The external auditor attends at least that part of the Supervisory Board meeting in which the external auditor’s •• Quality, independence, ethics and other public interest matters report on the financial statements and the assurance on non•• The company’s financial reporting process financial information is discussed and in which a decision is made as to whether to approve them. The external auditor attends the •• The company’s compliance with laws and regulations. General Meeting. The Supervisory Board is responsible for ensuring that it performs its duties as effectively and efficiently as possible. It has therefore drawn up guidelines for its size and composition. These guidelines take into account the nature of the company and the expertise and experience required of Supervisory Board members. The Supervisory Board evaluates its own collective performance as well as the performance of individual Board members at least once a year. 70 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Roles and responsibilities Changes per 1 October 2016 In its meeting of March 29, 2016, the General Meeting approved a number of changes in the governance structure to be effective per October 1, 2016. These changes are approved as follow-up to the governance proposals made by the Dutch auditing professional body (NBA). The most significant changes can be summarised as follows: •• The Supervisory Board will consist only of independent, external members, with the possibility of appointing one external, nonindependent member from our international network. •• Supervisory Board members will be appointed by the General Meeting following a binding nomination by the Supervisory Board. Only with a two-thirds majority, representing at least half the votes that can be cast, can such a nomination be overruled. •• The Public Interest Committee will cease to exist. Its tasks will be transferred to the entire Supervisory Board. •• Executive Board members will be appointed by the General Meeting following a binding nomination by the Supervisory Board. Only with a two-thirds majority, representing at least half the members, can such a nomination be overruled. •• The following Executive Board decisions will require Supervisory Board approval: –– ­ Association and termination of Audit partners –– ­ Remuneration policy of Audit partners and employees –– ­ Quality policy and assurance –– ­ Appointment and appraisal of the Compliance Officer Audit •• Supervision on quality, independence and other public interest matters will be explicitly included in the objectives of the Supervisory Board. •• The requirement that Executive Board members are also partners of Deloitte will be removed. •• The Executive Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, will appoint a Partner Committee that consists of a maximum of five partners. The Partner Committee is charged with giving support and advice to the Supervisory Board. International association Deloitte Holding B.V. is the Netherlands’ member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited by guarantee. For a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms, please refer to www.deloitte.com/about. The member firms of DTTL are all separate and independent legal entities, and through their affiliates provide services in a certain geographic areas subject to applicable local laws and regulations. 71 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Risk management Risk management Risk management is key to sustaining our current and future performance. Maintaining the highest standards for quality and integrity are essential to our brand and reputation and to make a lasting impact that matters for our stakeholders. In our ever-changing market landscape we actively pursue new business opportunities, invest in innovation and manage risk and our reputation. The Supervisory Board, the Executive Board, and the Executive Committee proactively oversee these opportunities and related uncertainties, and seek to anticipate them through a structured risk management approach that is aligned with our Strategy 2020. 72 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 | Our way of working Risk management Context importance of a comprehensive and robust risk management The environment that we and our clients operate in is eversystem. This requires that the root causes of such incidents be changing. Change is not linear but exponential and disruptive. In analysed, and any lessons learned are translated into measures our aspiration to make an impact that truly matters and deliver that help prevent similar incidents occurring in the future. In this the right solutions and excellent quality to our clients, it is vital to context, the strengthening of our governance and culture of quality stay abreast of emerging risks. Trends such as cyber and data, and integrity has been a top priority for Deloitte in the year. increasing regulation and the adoption of new technologies and delivery models, continue to offer business opportunities while Risk governance: roles & responsibilities also affecting our risk profile. Risk governance is embedded in our overall governance structure. The primary responsibility for identifying and managing risks Continued economic recovery and our strategic choices and resides with line management, the Executive Committee and investments have led to significant growth in many parts of our ultimately the Executive Board with oversight from our Supervisory business, primarily in the advisory practice. This brings risk in Board. relation to being able to attract and retain talent by being a leading professional services firm to work for, and continue to deliver the In October 2015 the members of our new Executive Board were highest quality to all our clients. Mitigation strategies defined in elected. In the Executive Board, a new role, the Chief Quality relation to these risks, including our Talent Strategy and Quality Officer (CQO), was introduced. The CQO, who is responsible for Plans, continue to be top priorities in rolling out the Strategy 2020 overseeing quality and risk management, also introduced a Risk & and managing our priority risks. Quality Committee, both on executive level as well as Supervisory Board level (starting in October 2016). These committees meet Incidents occur that are inherent to any business. We have faced periodically to maintain oversight of all quality and risk initiatives, increased stakeholder and regulatory scrutiny, incurred fines and and report, through the CQO to the Board. The Risk & Reputation have had to address ethical incidents and information security Leader (RRL), who reports to the CQO, has day-to-day responsibility breaches. Although the magnitude of this impact has been limited for overseeing the Enterprise Risk Framework and corresponding to below materiality levels, these events emphasise the vital risk and control system. Finance & Strategic Operational Compliance Reporting Quality Are we doing the right Are we doing the Do we have accurate Do we preserve our things? things right? and transparant license to operate (financial) reporting? (by complying)? Value preservation: Unrewarded risk Value creation: Rewarded risk Rewarded Risk provides a premium if managed well. Unrewarded Risk provides limited premium if managed It relates to risks in areas such as innovation, M&A, new well and penalties if not. It relates to risk areas such as product development, -markets and -business models. financial misstatement, compliance with laws and regulation. 73 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Risk management On an annual basis, the Executive Board evaluates the We strongly believe that risk management is an enabler for both performance of and acknowledges its overall accountability for the value preservation and creation and we broadly distinguish effectiveness of the risk and control system through an in-control between two categories of risk: statement. To substantiate the evaluation, the Board obtains input •• Unrewarded risks that provide limited premium but are critical from both line management, the RRL as well as the internal auditor, to our brand and reputation, e.g. in compliance to rules and who provides assurance on the key elements of the risk and regulations. control system. The Executive Board also gives consideration to the findings and reporting of the external auditor on the functioning of •• Rewarded risks that provide a premium if managed well, e.g. internal controls as part of their annual audit engagement. through innovation of our services. Risk framework Risk appetite Through our Enterprise Risk Framework we address the full To support us in maintaining the right balance between risk and spectrum of our business, from strategy to execution. We actively reward, we have defined a risk appetite across four main risk challenge ourselves whether we are doing the right things and categories: strategic, operational, finance & reporting, and quality that we do those things with excellence. The Risk Framework helps & compliance. Our risk appetite subsequently guides our strategy us to ensure we have the right information available, comply with to mitigate related risks and monitoring that risk exposure remains applicable laws and regulations and meet our own high quality within tolerable boundaries. standards. We aim to prevent risks from materializing where possible, and try to anticipate and respond appropriately when they do occur. To support this we strive for a culture where people intrinsically embrace our quality and integrity ambition. Area Risk appetite Guiding measures Strategy We seek for a sound balance between risk and reward. • Robust strategic planning process Business opportunities inherently bring uncertainty, • Clear strategic KPIs resulting in a focus on having a balanced portfolio of • Business case process for investments clients and services. • Portfolio management for clients and services Operations We aim for lean operations, while securing our quality • Fit for Growth strategy through streamlining standards, that go beyond the minimum that our operations and costs while maintaining quality stakeholders expect (i.e. being competitive through • Management information systems and systematic operational excellence). reporting and analysis Our approach to financial accounting is balanced in Finance & reporting nature, striving for minimal audit adjustments. Should • Policy framework including policies on internal and known audit adjustments be required by the auditor, external reporting and communication these will be recorded. • A robust internal control environment and (‘AOIC’) Our approach to reporting is to seek transparency monitoring system, including a proactive approach and reliability in our reporting for our stakeholders to identify breaches as well as improvement areas on Deloitte’s strategy, as well as corresponding • Systematic internal audits against a normative risks and rewards and on financial and non-financial framework performance. • Risk & Reputation Leadership function monitoring Quality & compliance Our goal is to achieve the highest quality standards policies and metrics, applying disciplinary action if feasible, comply with legal and regulatory standards, needed. Also, we reward quality excellence and inspire our people to intrinsically embrace our • Organisation-wide quality programme with clear quality and integrity ambitions. KPIs • Learning from non-compliance indications and incidents, through root-cause analysis 74 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Risk management Risk universe Our risk profile is formally assessed each year by the Executive Board. In a facilitated workshop, the Executive Board and Executive Committee members assess our risk profile in context of our Strategy 2020 and our risk appetite, giving explicit consideration to the balance between risk and reward. Mitigation strategies are challenged and where needed additional actions are defined and/ or adapted. The outcome of the assessment is shared with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. The table below represents the main (not limitative) risk areas of our risk universe as input for the annual assessment. Risk universe Strategic Operational Finance & Reporting Quality & Compliance •• Strategy execution & change •• Talent: attraction & retention, •• Financial and non-financial •• Audit Quality & Regulatory leadership development, KPIs changes •• Competitor moves, succession planning, diversity market dynamics & •• Economic developments, •• Override of systems & internationalisation •• Data protection & client competitor moves, and controls confidentiality growth in defined offerings •• Client & products portfolio •• Independence and client risk and innovation. quality •• Business continuity – reward profile •• Valuation of WIP, working •• Talent – to become the •• Contracting terms & •• Integrity & living our values capital number one career conditions destination •• Bank financing & meeting our covenants •• Innovation (incl. new business models) •• Reputation misalignment with public interest 75 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Our way of working Risk management Priority risks Executive Board Statement Resulting from the annual assessment the Executive Board and We refer to the Report from the Executive Board section for the members of the Executive Committee agreed on priority risks Board’s In Control statement. and opportunities related to our strategy. Risks that both have a material impact and for which there is room for improvement in the current risk mitigation strategy. Each of these risks have been extensively assessed. Risk owners were assigned and relevant mitigating actions identified. •• Living our values Potential dilution of our culture of integrity and risk awareness and even individual misbehaviour can have severe consequences for our clients, our people and our brand. Beyond increased scrutiny of systems, processes and procedures, it is of utmost importance to consistently live as well as advocate our shared values in our communication from the top and throughout the organisation. •• Quality / Regulatory / Reputational cluster Quality is our license to operate. Evolving standards set by regulators and high expectations of both clients and society demands global consistent professional service delivery of the highest standards. The Chief Quality Officer in the Board reflects our key focus on quality, and oversees our organisation wide quality and risk programmes. •• Talent & leadership development In order to achieve our ambition to become the premier career destination we need to attract, hire and retain sufficient talent with the appropriate integrity, skills, experience and potential and develop leaders through training and mentoring. Our Talent strategy as a key pillar of our Strategy 2020 addresses the risks and opportunities we have identified. •• Security & confidentiality Adequate security of pertinent information is crucial for our stakeholders’ confidence and compliance with confidentiality and privacy requirements. To prevent data leakage of and unauthorised access (e.g. cybercrime, loss of laptop, data leakage, privacy breach) we run various programmes to raise awareness and assess and monitor our security capabilities, both in technical terms and in behaviour. •• Innovation & product portfolio We need to continuously develop our portfolio of service/market offerings and/or business models that include the development of appropriate data and technology to support these new offerings that are aligned with our strategy. Both within our separate Innovation unit as well as within the Functions we have focused innovation initiatives that are being supported and monitored for progress. •• Internationalisation The further integration of Member Firms and alignment of processes, people and systems is a high priority of both the Dutch and global Executive. 76 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annexes Annexes Annex 1: Financial statements 78 Annex 2: GRI table and related sustainability information 116 Annex 3: Other information 146 Annex 4: Key numbers in value creation by stakeholder category 152 77 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Financial statements Annex 1: Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 79 Consolidated balance sheet as of May 31, 2016 79 Consolidated profit and loss account for the period 80 June 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016 Consolidated cash flow statement for the period 81 June 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 82 Company financial statements 106 Company balance sheet as of May 31, 2016 106 Company profit and loss account for the period 107 June 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016 Notes to the company financial statements 108 78 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated balance sheet as of May 31, 2016 (before result appropriation) Pro forma Assets (in € thousands) Note May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets [1] 14,104 15,630 Tangible fixed assets [2] 65,184 68,355 Financial fixed assets [3] 25,395 4,941 104,683 88,926 Current assets Receivables, prepayments and accrued income [4] 206,452 198,223 Cash and cash equivalents 66,602 18,971 273,054 217,194 377,737 306,120 Pro forma Equity and liabilities (in € thousands) Note May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Group equity *) [5] (35,149) 6,650 Provisions [6] 8,115 6,377 Long-term liabilities: [7] Subordinated loans Stichting Financiering Deloitte *) 117,800 114,475 Bank loans 66,800 Deferred income 35,912 40,266 220,512 154,741 Current liabilities, accruals and deferred income [8] 184,259 138,352 377,737 306,120 [ ] The figures between brackets refer to the corresponding notes on the specific items of the consolidated balance sheet. *) The group equity and the subordinated loans represent the group’s capital base €82,651 (May 31, 2015 €121,125) 79 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated profit and loss account for the period June 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016 Pro forma in € thousands Note 2015/2016 2014/2015 Net turnover [9] 785,325 656,804 Own production capitalised 336 255 Other operating income 2,584 478 Total operating income 788,245 657,537 Costs of subcontracted work and other external costs 131,199 78,335 Salaries and social security charges [10] 343,321 302,366 Amortisation of intangible and depreciation of [11] 18,219 16,224 tangible fixed assets Impairments of in-/tangible fixed assets [1] [2] 2,317 Other operating expenses [12] 170,892 158,759 Total operating expenses 665,948 555,684 Operating result 122,297 101,853 Share in result of non-consolidated associated companies (16) 28 Financial income and expenses [13] (6,964) (6,331) Result before taxation 115,317 95,550 Corporate income tax [14] (5,699) (344) Management fee members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. [15] (97,764) (95,206) (former Shareholders’ Associate Fee) Net result after taxation 11,854 [ ] The figures between brackets refer to the corresponding notes to the specific items of the consolidated profit and loss account As there are no items of other comprehensive income to be recognised directly in Equity, Total Comprehensive Income is equal to the Net result after taxation. 80 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the period June 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016 (Prepared using the direct method) Pro forma in € thousands Note 2015/2016 2014/2015 Cash flow from business activities: Receipts from customers 777,563 638,934 Payments to suppliers and personnel (595,246) (513,894) Cash flow from business activities 182,317 125,040 Interest received 810 82 Interest paid (5,874) (7,065) Dividend received [3] 41 35 Corporate income tax received 595 Corporate income tax paid (10,000) (15,023) (6,353) Cash flow from operating activities 167,294 118,687 Investments in intangible fixed assets (2,065) (2,838) Investments in tangible fixed assets [16] (7,788) (18,418) Disposal of tangible fixed assets 9 301 Disposal of activities 546 Investments of Group Activities [1] (2,343) (500) Investments in other financial fixed assets (292) (392) Cash flow from investment activities (11,933) (21,847) Stichting Financiering Deloitte: Management fee (former Shareholders’ Associate Fee) (97,764) (95,206) Increase in subordinated loans 3,800 4,065 Changes in current account (15,112) 2,945 Net cash outflow to members (109,076) (88,196) Changes in members’ capital (250) Cash flow used for financing activities (109,326) (88,196) Net cash flow 46,035 8,644 Cash received from acquired company Stichting InterNos [16] 1,596 Movements in cash 47,631 8,644 Cash at start of financial year 18,971 10,327 Movements in cash 47,631 8,644 Cash at end of financial year * 66,602 18,971 * Cash at end of financial year relates to cash and cash equivalents. 81 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements and other factors, and may secure the provision of professional services in its territory through subsidiaries, affiliates, and/or other General entities. Activities Shareholders’ structure Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. is a cooperative which has its Up to May 31, 2015 the shares in Deloitte Holding B.V. were held registered office and its principal place of business in Rotterdam, by shareholding companies owned by partners who have signed a Wilhelminakade 1, and is registered with the Chamber of so-called “Associate Agreement” with Deloitte Holding B.V. These Commerce with number 63086174. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. is shareholding companies are referred to as “shareholders” or the ultimate parent of Deloitte Holding B.V. and its subsidiaries. partners. The activities of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and the companies in its group consist mainly of Audit, Tax & Legal, Financial Advisory In addition, Stichting Financiering Deloitte held non-voting shares Services and Consulting, as well as other forms of professional in Deloitte Holding B.V. acquired from former shareholders on a financial services. These activities are conducted by and for the temporary basis. account of the respective group companies of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and Deloitte Holding B.V. which acts as holding companies and Under the Associate Agreement each shareholding company has do not themself conduct any activities in the field of professional placed (the workforce of) each partner at the disposal of Deloitte financial services as referred to in the previous sentence. Holding B.V. and its group companies in which the relevant professional activities for that partner are performed. Formation of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. On June 1, 2015 the shareholders of Deloitte Holding B.V. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. was founded on April 10, 2015. In its first exchanged their shares in Deloitte Holding B.V. for membership statutory financial reporting period ended May 31, 2015 there have rights in Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. at nominal value. Also on June 1, been no activities. 2015 the remaining non-voting shares of Deloitte Holding B.V. held by Stichting Financiering Deloitte were cancelled. On June 1, 2015 the shareholders of Deloitte Holding B.V. exchanged their shares in Deloitte Holding B.V. for membership Under the previous Associate Agreement, until May 31, 2015 an rights in Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. at nominal value, being €25 per Associate Fee was payable equal to the consolidated net amount member, in total €6,150. of operational and financial income and expenses of Deloitte before deduction of the Associate Fee itself. This Associate Fee Since this merely concerns a change in the legal structure on behalf was recognised as an expense therefore resulting in a net profit of the ultimate owners of Deloitte Holding B.V. and Coöperatief amounting to nil. Deloitte U.A. respectively, in the consolidated financial statements, the transaction was accounted for using the pooling of interests Based on the revised Associate Agreement as of June 1, 2015 method. a management fee, which approximates 80% of the expected The impact thereof is that Deloitte Holding B.V. activities for the consolidated net amount of operational and financial income year ended May 31, 2015 are fully reflected and presented in the and expenses of Deloitte Holding B.V., is paid to the members of current year and comparative period of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A., Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. through Stichting Financiering Deloitte with the prior year presented on a pro forma basis. (as further explained in the following paragraph). The net result for the year after management fee and corporate income tax is to be In the company financial statements the transaction was paid by Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. to the members as distribution of accounted for using the carry over accounting method at June 1, profits. 2015. Financing structure and Stichting Financiering Deloitte International relationships In addition to the members’ capital, members of Coöperatief Deloitte (Deloitte Holding B.V.) is a member firm of Deloitte Deloitte U.A. (and the previous shareholders of Deloitte Holding Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited B.V.) finance Deloitte with subordinated loans. These loans are by guarantee. Each member firm provides services in a particular provided through Stichting Financiering Deloitte. geographic area and is subject to the laws and professional regulations of the particular country or countries in which it Payments of management fees (formerly associate fees) by virtue operates. DTTL does not itself provide services to clients. DTTL and of the Associate Agreement and other payments (with exception each DTTL member firm are separate and distinct legal entities, of distribution of profits) to members also take place through which cannot obligate each other. DTTL and each DTTL member Stichting Financiering Deloitte. firm are liable only for their own acts or omissions and not those of each other. Each DTTL member firm is structured differently in Up to May 30, 2016, Stichting Financiering Deloitte has re-issued accordance with national laws, regulations, customary practice, the brought-in loans to Deloitte Holding B.V.; starting from May 31, 82 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 2016 these loans are re-issued to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. This change in Board composition results in Deloitte Holding These loans are subordinated to all creditors and lender banks. B.V. controlling Stichting InterNos with Stichting InterNos being consolidated into Deloitte Holding B.V. and Coöperatief Deloitte As part of the restructuring, Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. as U.A. respectively. Subsequent to the change in control of Stichting shareholder of Deloitte Holding B.V. contributed €70 million InterNos, the Board voted to legally merge Stichting InterNos into of these subordinated loans into Deloitte Holding B.V. via an Deloitte Holding B.V. and this is in process of being effected in the additional paid in capital contribution, the rest of the partner 2017 financial year, subject to finalizing related legal formalities. subordinated loans received from Stichting Financiering Deloitte are issued to Deloitte Holding B.V. as subordinated loans. On July 1, 2016 the members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. approved the legal merger between Stichting InterNos and Deloitte Holding Stichting Financiering Deloitte was established by the (former-) B.V. subject to approval of the court. Deloitte partners, members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. as an entity to protect the interests of the members collectively from a In combination with the above, the new group structure also financing perspective should a calamity arise that could affect the provides a transparent basis for potential combination of the members. The control over Stichting Financiering Deloitte lies with Deloitte Netherlands and other Deloitte member firms in the the members who have the right at all times to elect and dismiss future should this become an option. its board members. Consequently, Stichting Financering Deloitte is not controlled by Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. group and therefore is Accounting consequences of the restructuring not included in these consolidated financial statements. For further As explained in more detail in the previous section, Stichting information on Stichting Financiering Deloitte, reference is made to InterNos is a vehicle with a sole purpose for the ultimate owners note 7. of Deloitte Holding B.V. and Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. in settling certain rights of former partners/shareholders. The liabilities on the balance sheet of Stichting Financiering Deloitte contain long-term and short-term subordinated loans On May 24, 2016, the members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. from members which for the same amounts and under the same approved the restructuring of Stichting InterNos. On May 23, 2016, conditions are provided to Deloitte. Other current liabilities are Deloitte Holding B.V. was appointed as the sole board member of short-term deposits and interests to be paid which are equal to Stichting InterNos and therefore obtained control over Stichting the current liabilities owed to Stichting Financiering Deloitte by InterNos. Since the collectivity of members of Coöperatief Deloitte Deloitte. In the situation that Stichting Financiering Deloitte would U.A. and Stichting InterNos are identical the restructuring merely be controlled and consolidated there would be an insignificant concerns an internal change of the organisational structure effect on the balance sheet and no effect on the financial results of that affects the legal structure under common control, the legal Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. merger is recognised under the carry over accounting method, applying book values in accordance with Coöperatief Deloitte U.A.’s Acquiring control over Stichting InterNos accounting policies. Stichting InterNos is responsible for the settlement of former goodwill rights. This foundation is partly financed by Stichting Effect consolidation Stichting InterNos on (in Financiering Deloitte, which has been authorised by the members Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. balances: € thousands) to withhold a proportion of the management fee (former Associate Long-term Bank loan 66,800 Fee) due to these members to finance Stichting InterNos. Until May Repayment on long-term bank loan in following year 6,000 23, 2016 Stichting InterNos was not part of the Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. group of companies and therefore was not included in the Total bank loan 72,800 consolidated financial statements. Cash (1,596) Write-off to equity 71,204 After a review of the Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. group structure Deferred tax (17,801) and the Stichting InterNos structure during the 2016 financial year, it was recommended to further optimise the current structure. Net effect on equity 53,403 Specifically, to simplify the structure, also for possible future collaboration with other Deloitte member firms, on March 29, On May 31, 2016, Stichting InterNos balances included 2016, the members voted on a restructuring of the group and prepayments on settlements with former partners/shareholders of Stichting InterNos. This combined with the Stichting InterNos Board €72.8 million and total bank liabilities of €72.8 million. Coöperatief agreeing to the restructuring. On May 23, 2016, with the conditions Deloitte U.A. as the parent of Deloitte Holding B.V. assumed and for restructuring being met, Deloitte Holding B.V. was appointed consolidated the assets and liabilities of Stichting InterNos with as sole board member of Stichting InterNos and gained control approximately €53 million (net of deferred tax) being written-off to thereof. equity. As a consequence, this restructuring had a negative impact of approximately €53 million on equity of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 83 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements As of financial year 2016/2017 the members have agreed to are valued at the fair value on that date. The goodwill paid is retain yearly €6.9 million (€5.3 million after tax) of future annual capitalised and amortised over the useful economic life. Results Coöperatief Deloitte U.A.’s earnings until such time that the equity from participating interests that have been disposed are included reduction caused by the restructuring is recovered. in the consolidation until the date that control ceases. As part of the restructuring, Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. as General accounting principles used for the preparation of shareholder of Deloitte Holding B.V. contributed €70 million of the the consolidated financial statements subordinated loans into Deloitte Holding B.V. via an additional paid The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in capital contribution, the rest of the partner subordinated loans in accordance with the requirements of Title 9, Book 2 of the received from Stichting Financiering Deloitte are issued to Deloitte Netherlands Civil Code. Assets and liabilities are valued and results Holding B.V. as subordinated loans. are determined on the basis of historical cost. Unless a different accounting principle is specified for the specific item on the balance Given the change in control in May 2016, the profit and loss sheet, assets and liabilities are carried at their face value. Income account of Stichting InterNos is excluded for the period prior to and expenses are allocated to the year to which they relate. Profits the change of control. For the financial year 2016/2017, the impact are only recorded if they have been realised on the balance sheet on the profit and loss account resulting from the restructuring of date. Losses originating before the end of the year under review Stichting InterNos is a decrease in management fee members of are taken into consideration if they were known before the financial approximately €11 million partly offset by an increase in financial statements were prepared. All amounts in the financial statements expenses of approximately €4 million. Furthermore the members are shown in thousands of euros, unless stated otherwise. of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. agreed to retain the difference of approximately €5.3 million after deduction of €1.8 million corporate Going concern income tax as group equity, therefore the restructuring does not As explained in the previous paragraphs, the acquisition of have a cash flow impact for the members. Stichting InterNos had a negative impact of approximately €53 million on equity of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. As of financial year Deloitte Holding B.V. continues to be in compliance with all its bank 2016/2017 the members have agreed to retain yearly €6.9 million covenants and for the Base Equity covenant, a waiver for the 12 (€5.3 million after tax) of future annual Deloitte Holding B.V’s month period following the financial year 2015/2016 balance sheet earnings until such time that the equity reduction caused by the date was received from the banks. restructuring is recovered. Including subordinated loans, the positive capital base of the group amounts to €82,651. Group relationships As a result of obtaining all the shares of Deloitte Holding B.V., as The restructuring is a non cash event and does not impact the of June 1, 2015 Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. is the ultimate parent of liquidity of the group. Deloitte Holding B.V. continues to have Deloitte Holding B.V. and its subsidiaries. After this transaction positive equity as a basis to distribute its earnings annually to the consolidated financial statements of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Furthermore in financial year 2015/2016 are a continuation of the existing group of Deloitte Holding B.V. and financial year 2014/2015 Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. generated (including comparatives). As a result of this, Deloitte publishes €167 million and €119 million respectively in operating cash flow her consolidated financial statements at the level of Coöperatief with approximately between €12 million and €22 million in annual Deloitte U.A. from now on. In these consolidated financial investments. For financial year 2016/2017 and the years to follow statements Deloitte refers to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and its the same level of net cash inflow is expected. subsidiaries. For a list of subsidiaries required by articles 2:379 and 2:414 of the Netherlands Civil Code reference is made to the notes The cash generating ability of the group based on past to the company balance sheet. performance and future planned performance continues to show growth in cash generation and is expected to form a solid Basis of consolidation basis for distributing funds annually from Deloitte Holding B.V. to The financial data of entities that form part of the group are Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and from Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. to its included in the consolidated financial statements of Coöperatief members. Deloitte U.A. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the accounting principles for valuation and for The Executive Board is confident about the future outlook for the determining results of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. The company Deloitte Netherlands Group. The financial statements are prepared financial statements of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. are included in the applying the going concern assumption. financial statements. The financial data of the group companies are included in full in the consolidated financial statements, eliminating intra-group relationships and transactions. Newly acquired group companies are consolidated from the date of their acquisition. The assets, provisions and liabilities of these acquired group companies 84 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Comparative figures The effective part of derivatives that have been assigned for As these are the first consolidated financial statements of cost price hedge accounting is valued at cost. By comparing the Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. is a critical comparative features of the hedge instrument with the continuation of the existing group of Deloitte Holding B.V. the critical features of the hedged position on balance sheet date, it financial year 2014/2015 figures of the consolidated financial is determined whether there is an indication for ineffectiveness. statements of Deloitte Holding B.V. are stated as pro forma In the event the critical features of the hedge instrument and the comparative figures. critical features of the hedged position are not equal, this is an indication that the cost price hedge contains an ineffective part. In No adjustments to comparative figures have been made with that case a quantitative ineffectiveness measurement is carried out regard to Stichting InterNos because Deloitte Holding B.V. only by comparing the cumulative change of the fair value of the hedge obtained control as of May 23, 2016. instrument with the cumulative change of the fair value of the hedged position since the designation of the hedge relationship. Changes in accounting policies Ineffectiveness is recognized in the profit and loss account if and As a result of the new EU Directive on the Annual Financial insofar as the quantitative ineffectiveness measurement shows a Statements (Directive 2013/34/EU), several sections of Title 9 (cumulative) loss. Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code have been amended. Some Decrees have been amended too, including the Decree on Current Foreign currencies Value and the Decree on Financial Statements Formats. Although The functional currency of the company and its group companies the amendments apply to financial years beginning on or after 1 is the euro. Receivables, liabilities and obligations in foreign January 2016, early application with effect from the 2016 financial currencies are translated at the exchange rate prevailing as of the year is allowed. Deloitte has decided to early apply. balance sheet date. Transactions in foreign currencies during the The early application does not have a financial impact period under review are recognised in the financial statements at on the financial year 2015/2016 and comparative figures, but does the rates of exchange at transaction date. Exchange-rate gains and have an impact on the disclosures. losses arising from such translations are taken to the profit and loss account. Financial instruments Financial instruments are both primary financial instruments (such Principles for the valuation of assets and liabilities as receivables and debts), and derivative financial instruments (derivatives). The notes to the specific items of the balance sheet Intangible fixed assets disclose the fair value of the related instrument if this deviates from Goodwill paid for companies acquired from third parties is included the carrying amount. If the financial instrument is not recorded in under intangible fixed assets. Goodwill is presented at cost less the balance sheet the information on the fair value is disclosed in accumulated amortisation and, if applicable, less impairments the notes to the ‘Contingent assets and liabilities’. in value. Amortisation is charged at a fixed percentage of cost, as specified in more detail in the notes to the balance sheet. The Primary financial instruments useful life and the amortisation method are reassessed at the end For the principles of primary financial instruments, reference is of each financial year. made to the recognition per balance sheet item of the ‘Principles for the valuation of assets and liabilities’. Capitalised development costs included under intangible fixed assets are amortised over their estimated useful life of Derivative instruments (derivatives) approximately 5 years on a straight line basis, and as applicable, Financial derivatives whose underlying value is not listed are reduced by impairment losses. Development costs comprises recognised at cost. If the fair value is lower than the cost price or direct labour cost and the attributable share of other direct negative as at balance sheet date, the derivative is written down to operating costs. the lower fair value and recognised in the profit and loss account, unless cost price hedge accounting has been applied. When Tangible fixed assets determining the lower fair value the effect of current interest is not Tangible fixed assets are valued at acquisition cost or production taken into account. cost, less accumulated depreciation and, where applicable, impairment losses. Depreciation is based on the estimated useful Hedge accounting life of the asset and calculated using the straight-line method The group applies hedge accounting based on individual based on the cost, taking account of any residual value. The asset documentation per individual hedge relationship. starts to depreciate from the date that it is taken into use. Tangible The group documents how the hedge relations suit the risk fixed assets under construction are valued at production cost. management goals, the hedge strategy and the expectation in Production cost comprises licensing costs, direct labour costs respect of the hedge’s effectiveness. expenditure on services from third parties and the attributable share of other operating costs. Grants for the purchase of 85 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements (tangible) fixed assets are deducted from the investment and liability relates to the liabilities from claims. This provision is amortised through depreciation. calculated per claim based on the estimated future expenditure, including the cost of obtaining legal advice, subject to a maximum Financial fixed assets amount per claim equal to the uninsured own risk. The provision The financial fixed assets comprise participating interests for unoccupied premises relates to offices not used or that will not and amounts owed by participating interests and loans. The be used in the short term and is calculated based on the term of participating interests over which significant influence is being vacancies and possible rent-free periods. This provision is calculated exercised on business and financial policy are valued at net asset at net present value using a discount rate of 0.3% (prior year 0.3%). value. The other participating interests are valued at cost, taking The provision for the dismantling costs is based on management’s into account where necessary any impairment losses. Upon initial best estimate. The provision for reorganisation is based on the recognition amounts owed by participating interests and loans cost of staff redundancies, in accordance with the reorganisation are valued at fair value and then valued at amortised cost, less plan. The actuarial calculations for pension provisions include an provisions deemed necessary for the risk of non-collectability. estimated future annual increase of the pension entitlements by Deferred tax assets are presented under the financial fixed assets 1.0% (prior year 1.0%). A discount rate is set at 0.96% (prior year to the extent it is probable that the temporary tax differences can 1.4%). The provision occupational disability relates to liabilities be realised in due course. These deferred tax assets are valued at existing as at balance sheet date regarding own risk for continued nominal value and have a predominantly long-term character. payment of the salaries (including employer’s contribution) of personnel that as at balance sheet date is expected stay totally Receivables, prepayments and accrued income or partial disabled and former personnel who left disabled or got Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently disabled within 28 days after leaving the company. A provision has valued at amortised cost, less provisions deemed necessary for the been formed for the amount expected to be due in the future, risk of non-collectability. Unbilled amounts for client work is valued the provisions include an estimated future annual increase of the at the estimated realisable value of services already performed but disability entitlements by 2.0% (prior year 2.0%). A discount rate is not yet invoiced, less advance payments invoiced. set at 1.4% (prior year 2.5%). Amounts paid concerning disabled personnel are deducted from this provision. Cash and cash equivalents Cash represents cash at bank and is valued at face value and is at Long-term liabilities the free disposal of the group, unless stated otherwise. Long-term liabilities have a term of more than one year. Liabilities falling due within one year are considered to be current liabilities. Pension schemes Loans are initially valued at fair value and subsequently at Contributions payable to the pension plan administrator amortised cost. are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account. Contributions payable or prepaid contributions as at year-end are Principles for determining the net results recognised under current liabilities and accruals, and receivables and prepayments, respectively. A provision is formed for liabilities Concept of profit and taxation other than the contributions payable to the pension plan Under the General Terms and Conditions of Deloitte, the Rules on administrator if, as at the balance sheet date, the group has a legal Financial Relationships and the Associate Agreements, Deloitte or constructive obligation towards the pension plan administrator, Holding B.V. is obliged to pay out management fees (former if it is probable that settlement of these liabilities will lead to an Associate Fees) to the members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Until outflow of resources and if a reliable estimate can be made of the last year the fees paid to members (shareholders) for services amount of the liabilities. The provision for additional liabilities to rendered were equal to the net amount of operational and the pension plan administrator is based on a best estimate of the financial income and expenses of Deloitte Holding B.V., before amounts required to settle these liabilities at the balance sheet deduction of Associate Fees. The management fees for services date, applying established actuarial methods and assumptions. rendered are generally recognised as operating costs in the profit The provision is carried at present value with the discount rate and loss account. The management fees are presented separately before taxation reflecting the current market rate. For back service as the last item in the profit and loss account. Presenting the liabilities for a closed group former employees faced with total or management fees as last item in the profit and loss account partial disability status (“Arbeidsongeschiktheid”) a provision is provides a better insight of the results the members are entitled maintained. The main actuarial assumptions are explained under to. The management fees to be paid to members through Stichting ‘Provisions’. Financiering Deloitte are treated as operating expenses for tax purposes. As a consequence the amount of corporate income Provisions tax paid is based on results after deducting management fees, The provisions relate to professional liability, pensions, reference is made to note 15. The management fees members reorganisations, unoccupied premises contracts and dismantling receive are subject to corporate income tax, whereas the costs and occupational disability. The provision for professional distribution of profits they receive are deductible for tax. 86 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Net turnover Net turnover is the income from services rendered to third parties during the year and includes the cost of work that Deloitte subcontracts to others. Operating expenses Operating expenses are calculated on a historical basis and allocated to the year to which they relate. Share in result of non-consolidated associated companies For participating interests over which a significant influence is being exercised on business and financial policy, the result amounts to the share in the result of these participating interests that is attributable to the company. This result is determined on the basis of the accounting principles of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. For participating interests over which no significant influence on business and financial policy is being exercised, any dividend received is treated as financial income. Taxation Corporate income tax is calculated at the applicable rate on the result for the financial year, taking into account permanent differences between profit calculated according to the financial statements and profit calculated for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets (if applicable) are only valued insofar as their realisation is likely Principles for preparation of the consolidated cash flow statement The cash flow statement is prepared using the direct method. Cash consists of the balance of cash and cash equivalents. Tax on profits, interest received and paid, and dividends received are included under cash flow from operating activities. The acquisition cost for acquired group companies is included under cash flow from investment activities. Existing cash and cash equivalents of these group companies are deducted from the acquisition cost. 87 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the specific items of the consolidated balance sheet 1) Intangible fixed assets A summary of the movements of intangible fixed assets is presented below: Development in € thousands Goodwill *) costs **) Total Acquisition cost as of June 1, 2015 38,934 6,632 45,566 Accumulated amortisation and impairments as of June 1, 2015 (28,377) (1,559) (29,936) Book value as of June 1, 2015 10,557 5,073 15,630 Additions ****) 3,210 2,065 5,275 Amortisation (4,115) (664) (4,779) Impairment ***) (1,162) (860) (2,022) Book value as of May 31, 2016 8,490 5,614 14,104 Accumulated amortisation and impairments as of May 31, 2016 (33,315) (3,083) (36,398) Acquisition cost as of May 31, 2016 41,805 8,697 50,502 Amortisation percentages 6 2/3%-20% 20% *) Goodwill is amortised over the period where related economic benefits are expected to be realised, This results in amortisation periods for goodwill of 5 (20%), 7 (14 2/7%) and 15 (6 2/3%) years, **) Development cost relates to product development, ***) In financial year 2015/2016, it was determined based on the outcome of the annual impairment review that certain investments in goodwill and development costs did not provide sufficient future cash flow and as a result an impairment charge of €1,162 for goodwill and €860 for development costs has been recorded. ****) Development costs: additions development costs relates to project Brisq. Goodwill: acquisitions are recognized in the financial statements according to the purchase accounting method, whereby all assets and liabilities are valued at the fair value ruling at the acquisition date. On June 1, 2015 Deloitte acquired all activities, assets and liabilities of FCTB B.V. Furthermore, on September 1, 2015 Deloitte acquired all activities, assets and liabilities of Indicia Talent & Performance B.V. The following Financial data relates to the two acquisitions in aggregate: in € thousands Total purchase price: 2,985 Fair value of nets assets/liabilities acquired: 225 Goodwill: 3,210 Total acquisition amount: 2,985 Deferred payment (642) Net cash outflow (ref Cash Flow Statement) 2,343 88 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 2) Tangible fixed assets The movements in the tangible fixed assets are as follows: Leasehold improvements, Fixed assets fixtures and Office Other fixed under in € thousands fittings equipment assets construction Total Acquisition cost as of June 1, 2015 67,539 23,754 43,365 156 134,814 Accumulated depreciation and impairments as (27,986) (11,297) (27,176) (66,459) of June 1, 2015 Book value as of June 1, 2015 39,553 12,457 16,189 156 68,355 Additions 1,193 567 2,866 5,959 10,585 Book value of assets disposed of (71) (25) (19) (115) Depreciation (4,853) (1,829) (6,758) (13,440) Impairment (201) (201) Book value as of May 31, 2016 35,621 11,170 12,278 6,115 65,184 Accumulated depreciation and impairments as (32,978) (13,101) (33,923) (80,002) of May 31, 2016 Acquisition cost as of May 31, 2016 68,599 24,271 46,201 6,115 145,186 Depreciation percentages 62/3%-20% 62/3%-20% 121/2%-50% The group has beneficial ownership of the leasehold improvements, fixtures and fittings but not legal ownership. Other fixed assets mainly relate to hardware and software. Additions in fixed assets under construction primarily relates to the replacement of laptops in June 2016. 89 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 3) Financial fixed assets A summery of the movements in the financial fixed assets is presented below: Other Other receivables, participating prepayments and in € thousands interests **) Deferred tax *) accrued income **) Total Book value as of June 1, 2015 2,331 2,610 4,941 Movements: Additions 181 19,125 4,128 23,434 Interest accrual 152 152 Impairment (1,721) (329) (2,050) Dividend received (41) (41) Share in result of participating interests (16) (16) Repayments (1,001) (1,001) Exchange rate differences (24) (24) Book value as of May 31, 2016 734 19,125 5,536 25,395 *) Additions in deferred tax mainly relates to temporary tax differences of €17,801 on assets of Stichting InterNos which have been written-off to equity and are deductible for corporate income tax. The temporary tax differences of €17,801 are expected to be settled annually until financial year 2025/2026. **) The other participating interests are minority interests of 12% in Nautilus Indemnity Holdings Ltd, established in the Bermudas, 0.3% in Deloitte University EMEA CVBA, established in the Belgium and 12.4% in Deloitte CIS Limited via a 31% participating interest in IHC Interposed Holding Company 1 S.A.S., established in France, a 40% shareholder of Deloitte CIS Limited. All minority interests are valued at cost or lower realisable value. Other receivables mainly relates to receivables from IHC Interposed Holding Company 1 S.A.S., a shareholder of Deloitte CIS Limited and accrued income relating to incentives granted in the connection with entering into sub-rental agreements for office buildings. The incentives are related to the sub-rental agreements and are therefore amortised over the term of the sub-rental agreement. It was concluded that given related uncertainties on repayment, an impairment on the investment and on the loan of 50 % has been recorded for €2,050. 4) Receivables , prepayments and accrued income in € thousands May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Accounts receivable 144,508 134,015 Unbilled amounts for client work 49,589 49,564 Corporate income tax 3,301 322 Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income 9,054 14,322 206,452 198,223 The provision for the risk of non-collectability of accounts receivable is €3,159 (May 31, 2015 €3,218) There are no receivables and prepayments with an original term of more than one year. 90 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 5) Group equity Statement of changes in equity of the legal entity as part of the group equity over 2015/2016 Capital Legal Other Result for in € thousands accounts reserves reserves the year Total Shareholders’ equity Deloitte Holding B.V. as of May 31, 2015 6,650 5,073 (5,073) 6,650 Cancellation of shares (500) (500) Initial contribution of members' capital and reserves **) 6,150 5,073 (5,073) 6,150 Consolidated net result after taxation 11,854 11,854 Total comprehensive income 11,854 Movement in equity Restructuring of InterNos through transfer of prepayments to (71,204) (71,204) members *) Deferred income tax *) 17,801 17,801 Net effect on equity of the restructuring of Stichting InterNos (53,403) Movement in capital accounts due to changes in members’ capital 250 250 Movement in capitalised costs 541 (541) Total movement of equity 250 541 (53,944) (53,153) Members' equity as part of group equity as of May 31, 2016 6,400 5,614 (59,017) 11,854 (35,149) *) see notes to the consolidated and company financial statements for reference **) The members’ capital classify as puttable instruments. In accordance with RJ 290.808 these rights are classified as equity. For a detailed explanation on the group equity reference is made to the notes to the members’ equity in the company financial statements. For an explanation of the capital base (group equity and subordinated loans) see note 7. 6) Provisions Unoccupied premises/ Professional dismantling Occupational in € thousands liability costs Reorganisation Pensions disability Total Balance as of June 1, 2015 1,400 2,286 1,857 549 285 6,377 Additions 3,128 336 2,369 18 1,191 7,042 Charged (2,302) (583) (1,653) (11) (4,549) Released (78) (67) (199) (193) (218) (755) Balance as of May 31, 2016 2,148 1,972 2,374 374 1,247 8,115 With the exception of the provisions for reorganisation the expected term of the provisions is mostly over one year. The provision for unoccupied premises and dismantling cost is related to the reduction of the office network and future dismantling costs. 91 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 7) Long-term liabilities Subordinated loans Stichting Financiering Deloitte The subordinated loans can be specified as follows: May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 in € thousands Total Interest rate Total Interest rate Subordinated loans Stichting Financiering Deloitte after deduction of repayments in the following year 117,800 4.00% 114,475 4.15% Repayment commitments included under current liabilities can be specified as follows: in € thousands May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Subordinated loans Stichting Financiering Deloitte 3,325 2,850 Members who enter into an Associate Agreement with Deloitte loans for the remaining amount, after annual €6,000 repayments, are obliged to grant a subordinated loan to Stichting Financiering every five years until at May 31, 2026 the remaining €18,800 will Deloitte. In turn this Foundation grants a subordinated loan for be redeemed. The interest rate swap is designated in an effective the same amount and under the same conditions to Deloitte. hedge relationship with the bank loans and is therefore not The subordination relates to all third party creditors and banks. recognised on the balance sheet. The loans amount to €117,800 as per May 31, 2016 (May 31, 2015: €114,475) and are subordinated to all existing and future liabilities Deloitte also has a credit agreement with ING Bank and Rabobank, of Deloitte and, together with the group equity, make up the capital the maximum credit facility according to this agreement is a base of Deloitte. revolving loan facility of €101,200, including current account facilities. The credit facility is partly used to provide guarantees, the The interest paid is equal to a 3-month Euribor plus 4% with a remaining €97 million is not used as of May 31, 2016. minimum of 4% and a maximum of 8%. The loans are repaid at the termination of the Associate Agreement. The maturity date As a security for the amounts owed to credit institutions, the of these loans depends on joining and leaving of members and current account facility and the bank loans various covenants therefore cannot be expressed in years. have been agreed regarding the balance sheet and the result ratios as well as certain security covenants, including a negative Bank loans pledge covenant and granting of securities in the event of default As a result of the restructuring of Stichting InterNos, Deloitte has under the credit agreement. As of May 31, 2016 Deloitte was in bank loans provided by ING Bank and Rabobank, each participating compliance with the covenants in the credit agreements with a for 50%. After repayments to date, the loans amount to €72,800 waiver received from the banks relating to the solvency ratio until as of May 31, 2016. On a yearly basis €6,000 will be repaid until May 31, 2017. The securities agreed consist of the joint and several May 31, 2018 at which time the remaining €66,800 is due for liability of Deloitte Accountants B.V., Deloitte Belastingadviseurs redemption. The repayment of €6,000 due May 31, 2017 is included B.V., Deloitte Consultancy Holding B.V., Deloitte Consulting B.V., in the current liabilities. It’s expected that remaining bank loans of Deloitte Financial Advisory Services B.V., Deloitte Group Support €66,800 will be extended for another five years. Center B.V., Ctrl B.V., Deloitte Forensic & Dispute Services B.V., Deloitte Risk Advisory B.V., Deloitte Benefits & Pension Advisory The interest on the loans is equal to 3 months Euribor-rate B.V., Deloitte Legal B.V. and Deloitte Accountancy & Advies B.V. increased by a surcharge between 2.00% and 3.25%. An interest rate swap was entered into resulting in an effective interest rate Deferred income on the loans of 3.03% (excluding surcharge). Market value of the Deferred income relates to incentives received in the connection interest rate swap as of May 31, 2016 is negative €12,642 (May 31, with entering into rental agreements for new office buildings and 2015 negative €11,080). The interest rate swap is based on the operational lease contract for cars and copying/printing machines. bank loans amount of €72,800 as of May 31, 2016 and will reduce The incentives are related to the rental agreements and the with €6,000 annually until at May 31, 2026 the remaining €18,800 operational lease contract and are therefore amortised over the will mature. It’s expected Deloitte will be able to renew its bank term of the rental agreement and the operational lease contract. 92 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 8) Current liabilities, accruals and deferred income Current liabilities, accruals and deferred income can be specified as follows: in € thousands May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Salaries and other personnel costs *) 59,450 29,614 Tax and social security contributions 40,482 33,388 Accounts payable 35,509 29,639 Management fees to be paid to members 14,498 Repayments on long-term loans in the following year ***) 9,325 2,850 Deferred income short-term 4,730 4,736 Stichting Financiering Deloitte **) 1,731 16,843 Liabilities for pensions 374 622 Other liabilities and accruals 18,160 20,660 184,259 138,352 *) The profit sharing to be paid to personnel increased form €13 million to €41 million. **) Due to the changes in organisation structure Stichting Financiering Deloitte is no longer responsible for the settlement of the former Associate fees, therefore the current account is considerably lower than last year. ***) Repayments on long-term loans in the following year contains €6 million bank loan repayment due May 31, 2017 and €3,325 short-term subordinated loans to be repaid to Stichting Financiering Deloitte. 93 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Off-balance sheet commitments the first request of Stichting Financiering Deloitte. With respect to the ranking of these securities rights, covenants have been agreed Lease and rental obligations between Deloitte, Stichting Financiering Deloitte, ING Bank and Rabobank (as lenders under Deloitte’s credit facility). This entails The group has entered into long-term rental agreements for that the rights of Stichting Financiering Deloitte are subordinated offices, operational lease contracts for cars and copying/printing to those of third party creditors and the lender banks. machines and facility services. The Supervisory Board These future (minimum lease) payments amount to: Deloitte has indemnified the members of the Supervisory Board from the financial consequences of claims from third in € thousands May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 parties (including defense costs) resulting from or related to the supervisory task of the members of the Supervisory Board and Within 1 year 64,000 77,000 to the extent the insurance of Deloitte does not cover matters concerned. Between 1 and 5 years 124,000 148,000 After 5 years 91,000 99,000 Bank guarantees Bank guarantees amounting to approximately €3,983 279,000 324,000 (May 31, 2015 €4,489) have been issued to third parties. Facility services Other guarantees As of 1 December 2006 Deloitte outsourced facility Following past acquisitions guarantees have been agreed for the services to a third party. A large number of maximum amount of €10,779 (May 31, 2015: €10,779) on balance staff was transferred to the new service provider. The sheet date. Nationale Borg issued guarantees on behalf of the contract was renewed for 5 years as of June 2012. material subsidiaries of Deloitte to Tax-authorities covering the Deloitte has undertaken to re-employ the former own-risk of the Return to Work (Partially Disabled) Regulation employees or to employ them with a succeeding facility (“WGA”). As security for these guarantees the material subsidiaries supplier if the contract is not renewed after 5 years. of Deloitte issued a joint and several liability undertaking. Membership Claims Deloitte is a member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and Claims have been submitted against the legal entities that belong Deloitte EMEA Co-operation Limited. Deloitte is obliged to pay to the Deloitte organization in the Netherlands for alleged poor annual subscription and services fees. performance of activities. A strong defense will be mounted against these claims. The Deloitte organization has professional indemnity Guarantees insurance for claim coverage. If considered necessary, provisions will be formed to cover the difference between any potential claims Stichting Financiering Deloitte and the related insurance payment. Members who enter into an Associate Agreement with Deloitte are obliged to provide a subordinated loan to Stichting Financiering Deloitte. In turn this foundation provides a subordinated loan for the same amount and under the same conditions to Deloitte. The subordination relates to all third party creditors and banks. The loans amount to €117,800 as per May 31, 2016 (May 31, 2015: €114,475) and are subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of Deloitte and, together with the group equity, make up the capital base of Deloitte. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and its subsidiaries are jointly and severally liable to members for what is owed to them by Stichting Financiering Deloitte with regard to the financial resources borrowed from the members by Stichting Financiering Deloitte and re-issued to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Deloitte has agreed certain security covenants with Stichting Financiering Deloitte, including a negative pledge covenant as well as the granting of securities at 94 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Financial instruments Credit risk The financial instruments shown on the balance sheet mainly Inherent to the nature of Deloitte’s activities is its exposure to regard financial fixed assets, receivables, cash, subordinated longcredit risk. These risks mainly regard uncollectable debts on term and current liabilities and amounts owed to suppliers and debtors, for which adequate provisions have been recognised. The trade credits. risk of non-collectability is mainly restricted by the multitude and diversity of parties owing to the group. Exchange rate risk Exchange rate risks, mainly dollar risks, arising from future Fair value operational cash flows and financing activities in foreign currencies Unless stated otherwise, the estimated fair value of the financial may be hedged by means of forward exchange contracts if instruments included in the balance sheet as of May 31, 2016 considered necessary. No hedging activities took place in the year approximate their book value. under review. For disclosure of the market value of the interest rate swap see Interest rate risk note 7 bank loans. Interest rate risks relate mainly to: •• short-term debit and credit facilities carrying variable Euribor based interest with a surcharge; •• subordinated loans, carrying variable Euribor-based interest with a surcharge capped at 8% for the compulsory subordinated loans. •• long-term loans to IHC Interposed Holding Company 1 S.A.S. •• long-term bank loans with ING Bank and Rabobank; with variable interest rate, these interest rate risks are hedged using an interest rate swap. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Deloitte Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. will be unable to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due. Liquidity risks arises from the ongoing financial obligations of Deloitte, including settlement of financial liabilities such as trade and other payables, as well as bank loans and subordinated loans of members. Deloitte’s liquidity management policy is to ensure as far as possible that there are sufficient liquid funds available to be able to meet its liabilities when due without incurring unacceptable losses or damaging its reputation. The aim of Deloitte’s treasury policy is to ensure that there are sufficient funds available to finance day-to-day activities. Deloitte has a credit agreement with ING Bank and Rabobank, since November 2013 the maximum credit facility is a revolving loan facility of €101,200, including current account facilities. The credit facility is partly used to provide guarantees, the remaining €97 million is not used as of May 31, 2016. 95 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the specific items on the consolidated profit and loss account 9) Net turnover: The net turnover breaks down over the functions as follows: in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 Audit 219,073 208,496 Tax & Legal 185,515 167,247 Consulting 193,762 148,995 Risk Advisory 113,492 79,169 Financial Advisory Services 70,516 49,405 Support/Other 2,967 3,492 785,325 656,804 Net turnover is mainly realised in the Netherlands. 10) Salaries and social security charges: in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 Salaries *) **) 286,723 245,576 Social security charges 35,149 32,481 Pension costs 21,449 24,309 343,321 302,366 *) Salaries contains €2,675 costs of reduction in personnel headcount (2014/2015 €1,967). **) Salaries contains €1,475 (2014/2015 €0) fixed remuneration of the Executive Board 96 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Workforce The average number of partners and employees working in the group, in FTE’s, and broken down by activity: 2015/2016 2014/2015 Fee Support Fee Support Partners earners Staff Total Partners earners Staff Total Audit 80 1,452 23 1,555 84 1,413 20 1,517 Tax & Legal 68 708 18 794 67 661 20 748 Consulting 47 878 8 933 40 789 8 837 Risk Advisory 22 518 6 546 20 405 2 427 Financial Advisory Services 22 217 1 240 21 190 1 212 Support/Other 11 35 694 740 9 43 728 780 250 3,808 750 4,808 241 3,501 779 4,521 Virtually all employees are based in the Netherlands. 11) Amortisation of intangible and depreciation of tangible fixed assets in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 Intangible fixed assets: Amortisation 4,779 3,887 Tangible fixed assets: Depreciation 13,440 12,337 18,219 16,224 97 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 12) Other operating expenses Other operating expenses can be specified as follows: in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 Accommodation costs *) 31,668 34,311 Staff cars 39,894 38,685 Employee benefits 25,576 22,232 International member firm fees 15,761 13,359 Office costs 10,532 10,031 Other costs **) 47,461 40,141 170,892 158,759 *) Accommodation costs contain a release of provisions for dismantling costs of €67 (2014/2015 €687) **) In April 2016, Deloitte paid the AFM a fine of €1,810 in connection with the results of their 2013/2014 inspection regarding 2012 audits (AFM report September 25, 2014). The financial year 2014/2015 financial statements of Deloitte Holding B.V. included a provision for a potential fine. The auditor’s fee included in the office costs can be specified as follows: in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 Audit of the financial statements 174 137 Other audits 107 86 281 223 The auditors fee is based on the agreed upon fees for the audit and other engagements for the year under review and any additional fees for out of scope work regarding the prior year. 13) Financial income and expenses in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 Interest income and similar income 941 213 Interest paid and similar costs (5,855) (6,544) Changes in value of receivables forming part of the financial fixed assets *) (2,050) (6,964) (6,331) *) see note 3 for reference 98 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 14) Taxation on the result from ordinary activities The corporate income tax due has been calculated as follows: in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 25% of the taxable amount 5,945 333 Adjustments prior years 500 Movement deferred tax assets (746) 11 (246) 11 Taxation according to the profit and loss account 5,699 344 The effective tax burden is 31% and can be broken down as follows: 2015/2016 2014/2015 % in € thousands % in € thousands Result before taxation and management fee 115,317 95,550 Management fee members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. (former Shareholders’ Associate Fee) *) (97,764) (95,206) Result before taxation 17,553 344 Tax burden based on Dutch nominal rate 25% 4,388 0% Application local, nominal rates (higher/lower rates) 0% (10) -3% (10) Non-tax deductible costs 5% 831 106% 363 Exempted income 0% (10) -3% (9) Prior financial years tax income/(charge) 3% 500 0% 31% 5,699 100% 344 Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries in the Netherlands form one tax group for company tax purposes. There are no losses available for setoff against tax liabilities. *) The management fee (last year Associate Fee) will be taxed at the member level. The consolidation of assets and liabilities of Stichting InterNos resulted in approximately €71.2 million of goodwill being written-off to equity. This goodwill is deductible for corporate income tax, therefore €17.8 million temporary tax differences were added as deferred tax resulting in a net write-off to equity of €53.4 million. These temporary tax differences of €17.8 million are expected to be settled annually until financial year 2025/2026. 99 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 15) Management fee because Deloitte pays corporate income tax based on the result before taxation. Based on the revised Associate Agreement as of June 1, 2015 a management fee, which approximates 80% of the expected Under the previous Associate Agreement, until May 31, 2015 an consolidated net amount of operational and financial income Associate Fee was payable equal to the consolidated net amount and expenses of Deloitte Holding B.V., is paid to the members of of operational and financial income and expenses of Deloitte Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. through Stichting Financiering Deloitte. before deduction of the Associate Fee itself. This Associate Fee The net result after management fee and corporate income tax is was taxable for members. For the years 2015/2016 and 2014/2015 proposed to be paid by Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. to the members the management fee is before deduction of €10,463 respectively as distribution of profits. The management fee is taxable for €10,903 distributed to Stichting InterNos. members. The distribution of profits is non-taxable for members, The members distribution can be specified as follows: in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 Result before management fee (former Associate Fee) and taxation 115,317 95,550 Management fee members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. (97,764) (95,206) (former Shareholders’ Associate Fee) Result before taxation 17,553 344 Corporate income tax (5,699) (344) Net result after taxation 11,854 Management fee distributed to members 97,764 95,206 Proposed profit to be distributed to members 11,854 Total proposed distribution to members 109,618 95,206 Average number of members in fte's *) 249 241 Average management fee and proposed profit distribution before tax per member 463 396 *) Members of the Executive Board who received a fix remuneration are not included. For the management fee (former Associate Fee) and transactions with related parties reference is also made to the accounting principles for determination of the result. Deloitte has transactions with the members for which the nature and scope are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements 100 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements 16) Notes to the specific items on the consolidated cash flow statement The acquiring of control over Stichting InterNos The acquiring of control over Stichting InterNos is a non-cash transaction and comprises bank loans of €66,800 long-term and €6,000 short-term, also deferred tax of €17,801 and a resulting negative equity of €53,403, the received cash of €1,596 is displayed as cash received from acquired companies below net cash flow. Investments in tangible fixed assets Under the investments in tangible fixed assets only those investments are presented where cash and cash equivalents were spent. In 2015/2016 investments amounting €3,088, mainly related to new laptops, were paid after the end of the financial year. In 2014/2015 investments amounting to €16,851 were deducted from the received incentives related to rental agreements for new office buildings. Included under Investments 2014/2015 in tangible fixed assets is the net effect of investments in new offices, in particular the new office in Amsterdam ‘The Edge’. The net effect of received incentives in 2014/2015, €19.8 million, related to rental agreements for new office buildings are included under payments to suppliers and personnel. 101 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Segmented information cost of fixed assets, accommodation-, office-, ITand innovation expenses are the responsibility of the Support/Other segment and The aggregated operating segments of Deloitte comprises of are allocated on a reasonable basis to the five business segments. Audit, Tax & Legal, Consulting, Risk Advisory and Financial Advisory Services which engages business activities for external clients As Deloitte mainly operates in the Netherlands, there is only one and Support/Other which mainly provides internal services. All geographic segment. operating segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by The pricing of transactions between the different segments the Executive Board to assess their performance for which there is is determined in accordance with objective and commercial discrete financial information available. principles. There are no differences the principles for the valuation of assets Segment results that are reported to the Executive Board include and liabilities in the financial statements and the segmented items directly attributable to a segment. Corporate costs, such as information. Segmented profit and loss account for the period for the period June 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016 Financial Tax & Risk Advisory Support/ in € thousands Audit Legal Consulting Advisory Services Other Elimination Total Net turnover 219,073 185,515 193,762 113,492 70,516 2,967 785,325 Net turnover between 17,627 6,051 12,855 12,344 1,829 159,053 (209,759) segments Own production capitalised 254 82 336 Other operating income 290 60 2,234 2,584 Total operating income 236,990 191,626 206,617 126,090 72,345 164,254 (209,677) 788,245 Costs of subcontracted work 40,759 32,703 40,469 36,465 21,978 21,933 (63,108) 131,199 and other external costs Salaries and social security 104,479 67,034 76,723 42,940 19,112 47,908 (14,875) 343,321 charges *) Amortisation of intangible and depreciation of tangible 940 1,403 1,772 14,104 18,219 fixed assets Impairments 183 978 1,156 2,317 Other operating expenses 77,061 51,622 48,577 29,586 13,641 82,099 (131,694) 170,892 Total operating expenses 223,239 152,945 168,519 108,991 54,731 167,200 (209,677) 665,948 Operating result 13,751 38,681 38,098 17,099 17,614 (2,946) 122,297 Share in result of nonconsolidated associated (16) (16) companies Financial income and (3,915) (6,257) (4,289) (1,783) (1,186) 10,466 (6,964) expenses Result before management fee and 9,836 32,424 33,809 15,316 16,428 7,504 115,317 taxation *) The cost of Executive Assistants, which are allocated to the business categories are included 102 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Segmented balance sheet as of May 31, 2016 Financial Tax & Risk Advisory Support/ in € thousands Audit Legal Consulting Advisory Services Other Elimination Total Assets Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 940 1,270 6,280 5,374 240 14,104 Tangible fixed assets 65,184 65,184 Financial fixed assets 81 5 114,166 (88,857) 25,395 1,021 1,275 6,280 5,374 179,590 (88,857) 104,683 Current assets Accounts receivable 39,071 38,440 33,712 17,106 13,822 2,973 (616) 144,508 Unbilled amounts for client 6,726 28,841 11,565 2,397 422 (362) 49,589 work Other current assets 1,147 351 575 209 6,959 117,589 (47,873) 78,957 46,944 67,632 45,852 19,712 21,203 120,562 (48,851) 273,054 Total assets 47,965 68,907 52,132 25,086 21,203 300,152 (137,708) 377,737 Equity and liabilities Capital base 7,859 27,820 27,035 12,239 13,904 82,651 (88,857) 82,651 Provisions 2,366 1,612 201 17 295 3,624 8,115 Liabilities, accruals 37,740 39,475 24,896 12,830 7,004 213,877 (48,851) 286,971 and deferred income Total equity and liabilities 47,965 68,907 52,132 25,086 21,203 300,152 (137,708) 377,737 103 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Segmented profit and loss account for the period for the period June 1, 2014 to May 31, 2015 Financial Tax & Risk Advisory Support/ in € thousands Audit Legal Consulting Advisory Services Other Elimination Total Net turnover 208,496 167,247 148,995 79,169 49,405 3,658 (166) 656,804 Net turnover between 18,868 5,016 12,508 7,201 1,556 154,482 (199,631) segments Own production capitalised 89 166 255 Other operating income 450 28 478 Total operating income 227,814 172,291 161,503 86,459 50,961 158,140 (199,631) 657,537 Costs of subcontracted work 36,246 24,880 26,389 16,959 5,935 17,764 (49,838) 78,335 and other external costs Salaries and social security 95,714 62,513 67,567 30,840 16,013 46,486 (16,767) 302,366 charges *) Amortisation of intangible and depreciation of tangible 953 1,058 1,249 (64) 13,028 16,224 fixed assets Other operating expenses 81,706 52,601 42,575 25,312 12,185 77,406 (133,026) 158,759 Total operating expenses 214,619 141,052 137,780 73,047 34,133 154,684 (199,631) 555,684 Operating result 13,195 31,239 23,723 13,412 16,828 3,456 101,853 Share in result of nonconsolidated associated 28 28 companies Financial income and (4,138) (5,400) (3,304) (1,338) (944) 8,793 (6,331) expenses Result before management fee and 9,057 25,839 20,419 12,074 15,884 12,277 95,550 taxation *) The cost of Executive Assistants, which are allocated to the business categories are included 104 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Consolidated financial statements Segmented balance sheet as of May 31, 2015 Financial Tax & Risk Advisory Support/ in € thousands Audit Legal Consulting Advisory Services Other Elimination Total Assets Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 1,880 2,856 5,820 3,309 1,765 15,630 Tangible fixed assets 68,355 68,355 Financial fixed assets 74,061 (69,120) 4,941 1,880 2,856 5,820 3,309 144,181 (69,120) 88,926 Current assets Accounts receivable 37,319 36,466 30,492 13,550 13,512 2,676 134,015 Unbilled amounts for client 8,917 23,132 13,489 2,185 6,705 242 (5,106) 49,564 work Other current assets 3,208 511 128 109 4,041 111,766 (86,148) 33,615 49,444 60,109 44,109 15,844 24,258 114,684 (91,254) 217,194 Total assets 51,324 62,965 49,929 19,153 24,258 258,865 (160,374) 306,120 Equity and liabilities Capital base 4,971 26,751 7,571 9,678 15,544 121,125 (64,515) 121,125 Provisions 1,977 1,053 42 65 175 3,065 6,377 Liabilities, accruals 44,376 35,161 42,316 9,410 8,539 134,675 (95,859) 178,618 and deferred income Total equity and liabilities 51,324 62,965 49,929 19,153 24,258 258,865 (160,374) 306,120 105 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements Company financial statements Company balance sheet as of May 31, 2016 (before result appropriation) Assets in € thousands Note May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Fixed assets Financial fixed assets [1] 82,476 Current assets Receivables and prepayments [2] 6,832 89,308 Equity and liabilities in € thousands Note May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Members’ equity [3] Capital accounts *) 6,400 Legal reserve 5,614 Other reserves (59,017) Result for the year 11,854 (35,149) Long-term liabilities [4] Subordinated loans Stichting Financiering Deloitte *) 117,800 Current liabilities and accruals [5] 6,657 89,308 [ ] The figures between brackets refer to the corresponding note to the company financial statements. ‘*) The members’ equity and the subordinated loans represent the capital base €82,652 (May 31, 2015 €0). 106 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements Company profit and loss account for the period June 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016 in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 Net turnover 516 Salaries and social security charges 206 Other operating expenses 293 Total operating expenses 499 Operating result 17 Share in results of participating interests 11,854 Financial income and expenses (17) Result before taxation 11,854 Corporate income tax Result after taxation 11,854 Notes to the company financial statements Under the carryover method, Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. has recognised its interest in Deloitte Holding B.V. at the merger date General accounting principles for the preparation of the at book value in accordance with the book values recognised financial statements in the consolidated financial statements without adjusting the The company financial statements have been prepared in comparative figures. We believe that using the carryover method accordance with Title 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. For and therefore not adjusting the comparative figures in the an explanation of the general accounting principles used in the company financial statements method explains the effect of the preparation of the financial statements, the policies for valuation of transaction on the financial position of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. the assets and liabilities and for determining the result, as well as better than using the pooling of interests. for the notes to the various company assets and liabilities and the results reference is made to the notes to the consolidated financial Financial fixed assets statements, unless stated otherwise. Participating interests in group companies are carried at net asset value, determined on the basis of group accounting principles. Comparative figures On June 1, 2015 the shareholding companies of Deloitte Members’ equity Holding B.V. exchanged their shares in Deloitte Holding B.V. with The membership rights classify as puttable instruments. In Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. at nominal value, as a settlement of their accordance with RJ 290.808 these rights are classified as equity. newly acquired membership of €25 per member, in total €6,150. Net turnover Since this merely concerns an internal change to the organisation The net turnover relates to the management fee received from structure that affects the legal structure, in the company financial Deloitte Holding B.V. statements the transaction was accounted for using the carry over accounting method at June 1, 2015. Salaries and social security charges Salaries and social security charges includes remuneration of the external members of the Supervisory Board. 107 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements Notes to the specific items on the balance sheet 1) Financial fixed assets A summary of the movements in the financial fixed assets is presented below: Participating interests Receivables in group from group in € thousands companies companies Total Book value as of June 1, 2015 Movements: Additions: transferred shares 6,150 6,150 Additions: prepayment of equity (53,403) (53,403) Additions: contributed share premium 70,000 70,000 Issued loans 51,375 51,375 Share in result of participating interests 11,854 11,854 Repayments on long-term loans in following year (3,500) (3,500) Book value as of May 31, 2016 34,601 47,875 82,476 Amounts owed by group companies are unsecured subordinated loans. On May 31, 2016 the subordinated loans were repaid by Deloitte Holding B.V. to Stichting Financiering Deloitte and Stichting Financiering Deloitte provided these subordinated loans directly to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Also on May 31, 2016 Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. contributed share premium of €70,000 to Deloitte Holding B.V. and provided the remaining subordinated loans (after deduction of €70,000) to Deloitte Holding B.V. These transactions are all non-cash transactions and settled in current accounts. Additions relates to investments in Deloitte Holding B.V. On June 1, 2015 246 members transferred their share in Deloitte Holding B.V. to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. as a settlement of their members capital of €25 per member, in total €6,150. On May 23, 2016 Deloitte Holding B.V. obtained control over Stichting InterNos, therefore Deloitte Holding B.V. assumed the assets and liabilities of Stichting InterNos with approximately €53,403 (net off deferred tax) being written-off to equity. This former goodwill of Stichting InterNos is considered a prepayment to members regarding their capital (goodwill) repayments to former partners and is therefor stated as prepayment of equity resulting in a negative equity. On May 31, 2016 Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. contributed share premium of €70,000 to Deloitte Holding B.V. 108 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements Consolidated companies The following subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements: Share in the issued capital Name Registered office May 31, 2016 Deloitte Holding B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Deloitte Accountants B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Salarisverwerking B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Deloitte Belastingadviseurs B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Belastingadviseurs New York B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Belastingadviseurs Hong Kong B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Legal B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Deloitte Consultancy Holding B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte & Touche Acquisition B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Consulting B.V. Amsterdam 100% -Vivens Groep B.V. Joure 100% -Vivens ICT B.V. Joure 100% -Vivens CRM B.V. Joure 100% -Deloitte Innovation Holding B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Innovation B.V. Rotterdam 100% PXR B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Deloitte Financial Advisory Services B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Benefits & Pension Advisory B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Deloitte Group Support Center B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Education B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Group Support Center Overseas Services B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Deloitte Risk Advisory B.V. Rotterdam 100% Deloitte Forensic & Dispute Services B.V. Amsterdam 100% -Deloitte Accountancy & Advies B.V. Rotterdam 100% Ctrl B.V. Amsterdam 100% -Deloitte Overseas Projects I B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Deloitte Overseas Projects II B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Deloitte Overseas Projects III B.V. Rotterdam 100% -Stichting Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation Rotterdam -Stichting InterNos Rotterdam Changes in the financial year under review B.V. changed its name into Deloitte Accountancy & Advies B.V. and On June 1, 2015 the shareholding companies of Deloitte was transferred by Deloitte Belastingadviseurs B.V. to Deloitte Holding B.V. exchanged their shares in Deloitte Holding B.V. with Holding B.V. and Deloitte Pension Advisory B.V. changed its name Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. into Deloitte Benefits & Pension Advisory B.V. On May 23, 2016, Deloitte Holding B.V. was appointed as the sole On June 1, 2016 Deloitte Risk Services B.V. changed its name into board member of Stichting InterNos and therefore obtained Deloitte Risk Advisory B.V. control over Stichting InterNos. On June 1, 2015 Deloitte Management Support B.V. changed its name into Ctrl B.V. and was transferred by Deloitte Accountants B.V. to Deloitte Accountancy & Advies B.V., Deloitte Family Office 109 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements 2) Receivables and prepayments in € thousands May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Current accounts owed by group companies 3,500 Corporate income tax 3,301 Other receivables and prepayments 31 6,832 Annual interest is charged on the current accounts owed by group companies at approximately 1.8% (prior year 2.0%). There are no receivables or prepayments with an original term longer than 1 year. 3) Members’ equity Capital accounts On June 1, 2015, 246 members transferred their share in Deloitte Holding B.V. to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. as a settlement of their members’ capital of €25 per member, in total €6,150. On May 31, 2016 there are 256 members, resulting in a total capital account of €6,400. A summary of the movements in capital accounts is presented below: Total members’ Total number capital in € of members thousands Balance as of June 1, 2015 Transferred share's Deloitte Holding B.V. in members’ capital on June 1, 2015 246 6,150 New memberships during the financial year 24 600 Retired memberships during the financial year (14) (350) Balance as of May 31, 2016 256 6,400 110 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements Legal reserve During the financial year 2015/2016 Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. capitalised developments costs for project Enterprise Strategy Programme through its wholly owned subsidiary Deloitte Group Support Center B.V. and for project Brisq through its wholly owned subsidiary Deloitte Risk Advisory B.V. for the amount to €2.3 million and added the existing legal reserve of Deloitte Holding B.V. as of June 1, 2015 of €5.0 million. In accordance with article 389.6 Title 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code a legal reserve for associated companies has been recognised for the amounts which cannot be distributed due to legal reserves developments costs of subsidiaries. Due to the absence of available undistributed profits and as stipulated by RJ 240.230 the amount of the legal reserve has been charged to the Other reserves, resulting in a negative amount. The movements in the legal reserves for associated companies are as follows: in € thousands Legal reserve Balance as of June, 1 2015 Movements: Capitalised costs subsidiaries 7,138 Amortisation/Impairments of capitalised costs subsidiaries (1,524) Balance as of May 31, 2016 5,614 Other reserves The movements in the other reserves are as follows: in € thousands Other reserve Balance as of June, 1 2015 Movements: Movement in legal reserves (5,614) Change in equity of Deloitte Holding B.V. (53,403) as a consequence of obtaining control over Stichting InterNos *) Balance as of May 31, 2016 (59,017) *) On May 23, 2016 Deloitte Holding B.V. obtained control over Stichting InterNos, therefore Deloitte Holding B.V. assumed the assets and liabilities of Stichting InterNos with approximately €53,403 (net of deferred tax) being written-off to equity. This former goodwill of Stichting InterNos is considered a prepayment to members regarding their capital (goodwill) repayments to former partners and is therefore stated as prepayment of equity resulting in a negative equity. Also see note 1 Financial fixed assets for reference and notes to the consolidated financial statements, general sections Acquiring control over Stichting InterNos and Accounting consequences of the restructuring and Going concern section. 111 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements 4) Long-term liabilities The long-term liabilities can be specified as follows: May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 in € thousands Total Interest rate Total Interest rate Subordinated loans Stichting Financiering Deloitte after deduction of short-term repayment 117,800 4,00% 0,00% commitments On May 31, 2016 the subordinated loans were repaid by Deloitte Holding B.V. to Stichting Financiering Deloitte and Stichting Financiering Deloitte provided these subordinated loans directly to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Also on May 31, 2016 Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. contributed share premium of €70 million to Deloitte Holding B.V. and provided the remaining subordinated loans (after deduction of €70 million) to Deloitte Holding B.V. These transactions are all non-cash transactions and settled in current accounts. 5) Current liabilities and accruals in € thousands May 31, 2016 May 31, 2015 Current accounts owed to group companies 3,288 Repayments on long-term loans in following year 3,325 Other liabilities and accruals 44 6,657 112 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements Off-balance sheet commitments Fiscal unity The legal entity and its wholly-owned subsidiaries make up a fiscal unity for corporation tax and V.A.T. purposes and for that reason are jointly and severally liable for the tax payable by the fiscal unity as a whole. Guarantees Stichting Financiering Deloitte Members who enter into an Associate Agreement with Deloitte are obliged to provide a subordinated loan to Stichting Financiering Deloitte. In turn this foundation provides a subordinated loan for the same amount and under the same conditions to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. The subordination relates to all third party creditors and banks. The loans amount to €117,800 as per May 31, 2016 (May 31, 2015: €114,475) and are subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of Deloitte and, together with the group equity, make up the capital base of Deloitte. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. and its subsidiaries are jointly and severally liable to members for what is owed to them by Stichting Financiering Deloitte with regard to the financial resources borrowed from the members by Stichting Financiering Deloitte and re-issued to Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Deloitte has agreed certain security covenants with Stichting Financiering Deloitte, including a negative pledge covenant as well as the granting of securities at the first request of Stichting Financiering Deloitte. With respect to the ranking of these securities rights, covenants have been agreed between Deloitte, Stichting Financiering Deloitte, ING Bank and Rabobank (as lenders under Deloitte’s credit facility). This entails that the rights of Stichting Financiering Deloitte are subordinated to those of third party creditors and the lender banks. The Supervisory Board Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. has indemnified the members of the Supervisory Board from the financial consequences of claims from third parties (including defence costs) resulting from or related to the supervisory task of the members of the Supervisory Board and to the extent the insurance of the cooperative does not cover matters concerned. 113 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements Other notes to the financial statements Remuneration of members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board The remuneration of members of the Executive Board comprises an Associate Fee plus a fixed expense allowance. As of October 1, 2015 the members of the Executive Board receive a fixed annual Associate Fee, chair €800 and members €650, plus fixed expense allowance. This remuneration also includes pension allowance. Total remuneration of the individual members of the Executive Board in the year under review was as follows: in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 P.J. Bommel 790 639 M. van Vliet 675 602 C.J.G.M. de Boer (until May 31, 2016) 673 599 M.J. van der Vegte (until September 30, 2015) 251 602 W.L. Smit (until September 30, 2015) 250 600 R.A.J. Roovers (until September 30, 2015) 250 598 M. Beelen (until September 30, 2015) 249 596 S.H.C. Heuts (until September 30, 2015) 248 594 Total 3,386 4,830 Number of members of the Executive Board in FTE's 5 8 The external members of the Supervisory Board were remunerated as follows: in € thousands 2015/2016 2014/2015 F.G.H. Deckers 70 70 A.F. van der Touw 44 44 J.P. Rijsdijk 44 44 F. Eelkman Rooda 44 44 Total 202 202 Number of external members of the Supervisory Board per May 31, 4 4 114 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 1 Company financial statements Appropriation of result for the financial year April 10, 2015 until May 31, 2015 The annual report 2015 was adopted in the general meeting of members held on May 25, 2016. The general meeting of members has determined the appropriation of result in accordance with the proposal being made to that end. Proposed appropriation of result for the financial year June 1, 2015 until May 31, 2016 The Executive Board proposes, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, that the result for the financial year 2015/2016 amounting to €11,854 to be distributed as profits. While noting that Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. has a negative equity as of May 31, 2016, the financial year 2015/2016 results and financial year 2016/2017 plan forms a sound basis for profit distribution. The financial statements do not yet reflect this proposal. Subsequent events On July 1, 2016 the members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. approved the legal merger between Stichting InterNos and Deloitte Holding B.V. subject to approval of the court. This transaction can be qualified as a transaction under common control. Since this merely concerns an internal change to the organization structure that affects the legal structure, the transaction will be recorded under the carry over accounting method. Rotterdam, September 2, 2016 Executive Board Supervisory Board F.G.H. Deckers (Chair) P.J. Bommel (Chair) A.L.J.M. van Berkel (Vice-Chair) E.M. Robbe F.E. Eelkman Rooda M. van Vliet S. Kloosterhof C.A.M. Renne J.P. Rijsdijk A.F. van der Touw 115 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Preface Annex 2: GRI Table and related sustainability information Preface 117 GRI Reference Table 118 General standard disclosures Specific standard disclosures Performance indicators Disclosures on management approach Selected information 137 G4-10 G4-15 and G4-16 G4-27 G4-LA1 G4-LA3 G4-LA11 Basis of reporting 144 Offices in the Netherlands 145 116 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Preface Preface This annex contains the disclosures that are relevant in the context This Annex has been subject to external assurance. Please refer to of our GRI G4 In accordance – comprehensive option. The inclusion the Assurance Report on page 146. of this information reflects our continued support for the work of Global Reporting Initiative and the UN Global Compact that is Transitioning from separate Financial and Sustainability Reports endorsed by Deloitte. to an Integrated Report, means that we are also reassessing the materiality as defined in our previous Sustainability Report and We disclose sustainability related information on three levels: are in the process of defining targets for the period 2016-2020 1. In the Integrated Annual Report: where possible, we have that we will discuss in a new stakeholder dialogue as follow up included a page reference; of the dialogue that we have conducted in 2014. For the sake of 2. Directly in the GRI Reference Table: in some case a short reply or completeness, we include an overview of the targets 2016 as set in data is provided in the GRI Reference Table itself; 2012 and still deemed important. 3. In the section “Selected information’: where we have done so, we refer to the page number(s) concerned. Target 2016 Status 2015/2016 Level of completion Level of completion 2015/2016 2014/2015 Deloitte is highest ranked Deloitte has improved its absolute score professional services company in the from 108 in 2014 to 147 in 2015. This ‘Transparantiebenchmark’ improvement means that we are currently ranked 4th in the relevant benchmark group (profesional services providers) and have narrowed the gap with our peers. Due to the publication of our Integrated Report in 2015, we expect our score to further improve in 2016. Development, improving and testing of a We are participating in the discussion methodology to calculate the monetary around true costing yet a generally accepted value for the impact of our services on model is not yet at hand sustainability 75% score in employee engagement as Employee engagement score is based on measured by our Talent Survey quarterly measurement and averaged 69% in 2015/2016 Eight diversity initiatives are embedded Target was already achieved in 2015 in business practices Sickness leave below 3.0% as measured Sickness leave amounted to 2.8% in on an annual basis 2015/2016 70% of office space BREEAM certified to BREEAM certification stands at 35.1%. We will the level of at least “very good” continue to use our experiences gained with BREEAM certification but intend to reduce this target in the future 117 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table Target 2016 Status 2015/2016 Level of completion Level of completion 2015/2016 2014/2015 15% reduction of carbon emissions Mobility related CO2 emissions have caused by mobility increased with 11.6% as compared to the reference year 2011/2012. This is mainly caused by an increase both in mobility and in the number of employees CO2 intensity dropped from 170 g CO2/km in 2014/2015 to 154 g CO2/km in 2015/2016 Deloitte to reach Advanced level in Target was already achieved in 2015 Global Compact 100% of major suppliers in conformity 65% of our total spend is covered by the with Deloitte Supplier Code Deloitte Supplier Code. Total of 1,500 volunteers deployed. We estimate to have reached approximately 12,500 children in underprivileged areas 30,000 children deploying around 1,440 have benefited from the foundation’s volunteers since 2012 activities GRI Reference Table General standard disclosures GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the organisation’s most Integrated Annual Report, pages 14-19 No omissions senior decision-maker G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and Integrated Annual Report, pages 24, 26 and No omissions opportunities 72-75 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation Integrated Annual Report, page 7 No omissions G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Integrated Annual Report, page 67 No omissions G4-5 Location of the organisation’s Integrated Annual Report, page 145 No omissions headquarters G4-6 Number of countries where the Integrated Annual Report, page 7 No omissions organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Integrated Annual Report, page 67 No omissions 118 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 | Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Integrated Annual Report, pages 14-19 No omissions breakdown, sectors served and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the organisation, including: Integrated Annual Report, pages 79-81 and No omissions Total number of employees 96-97 Total number of operations Net sales Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity Quantity of products and services provided No omissions G4-10 a. T otal number of employees by Annex 2: GRI Reference Table, pages 137 and The number of Principle 4 employment contract and gender 138 self-employed b. T otal number of permanent employees workers is not by employment type and gender material hence c. T otal workforce by employees and not reported. supervised employees and by gender There is no d. T otal workforce by region and gender seasonality in e. P ortion of work performed by selfour employment employed workers, or by individuals numbers other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. S  ignificant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered Deloitte has its own, company specific No omissions Principle 3 by collective bargaining agreements compensation and benefits agreement, established in agreement with the Works Council (Ondernemingsraad). It is laid down in our Compensation, Benefits & Pension Agreement that is part of each employee contract. G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply Our suppliers deliver goods and services No omissions chain which are critical to our organisation. This is further secured by our internal procurement department. To safeguard independence towards our clients, our Risk & Reputation Leadership Office is always involved in major procurement processes. We aim to have a positive impact through our procurement and prevent negative (in-)direct side effects. To this end, all our major suppliers must sign our Supplier Code of Conduct. 119 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Integrated Annual Report, pages 82-84 No omissions Principle 7 period regarding the organisation’s size, Principle 8 structure, ownership or it’s supply chain, including: • Changes in the location of, or changes in During the reporting year, we have closed operations, including facility openings, our office in Joure. Over the reporting year, closings and expansions we reduced our office space from 95,728 m2 in 2014/2015 to 86,921 m2 on average • Changes in the share capital Integrated Annual Report, page 7 structure and other capital formation, maintenance and alteration operations • Changes in the location of suppliers, There are no major changes in the location the structure of the supply chain or in of our suppliers, the structure of the supply relationships with suppliers, including chain or in relationships with suppliers, selection and termination including selection and termination COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES G4-14 How the precautionary approach or Our potential environmental impact is No omissions principle is addressed by the organisation addressed by monitoring and managing our greenhouse gas emissions with focus on reduction in CO2 emissions caused by mobility. See also our Integrated Annual Report, pages 48-51 G4-15 Externally developed economic, Annex 2: GRI Reference Table, pages 138 and No omissions environmental and social charters, 139 principles or other initiatives that the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Membership of associations (such as Annex 2: GRI Reference Table, pages 138 and No omissions industry associations) and national or 139 international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: • Holds a position on the governance body • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantial funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic 120 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 a. E ntities included in the organisation’s Integrated Annual Report, page 109 No omissions financial statements or equivalent documents b. D  isclosure of entities included in the financial statements or equivalent documents that are not covered by the report G4-18 a. E xplanation of the process for defining Integrated Annual Report, page 7 No omissions the report content and Aspect Boundaries b. E  xplanation of how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process Integrated Annual Report, page 61 No omissions for defining report content G4-20 For each material aspect, report the Integrated Annual Report, pages 7 and 61 No omissions Aspect Boundary within the organisation, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material within the organisation • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: • The list of entities or the group of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or • The list of entities or the group of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is material • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organisation 121 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Integrated Annual Report, pages 7 and 61 No omissions the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organisation • If the Aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of Integrated Annual Report, page 7 No omissions information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Report significant changes from previous There are no changes in scope or No omissions reporting periods in the Scope and boundaries as compared to previous years. Aspect Boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups Integrated Annual Report, page 60 No omissions engaged by the organisation G4-25 Report the basis for identification and Integrated Annual Report, page 59 No omissions selection of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach Integrated Annual Report, pages 58-61 No omissions to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that Annex 2: GRI Reference Table, pages 140-142 No omissions have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns 122 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or Integrated Annual Report, pages 6-7 No omissions calendar year) for information provided G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if Integrated Annual Report, page 6 No omissions any) G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Integrated Annual Report, pages 6-7 No omissions G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions Integrated Annual Report, page 15 No omissions regarding the report or its contents G4-32 a. R  eport the ‘in accordance’ option the Integrated Annual Report, page 7 organization has chosen b. R eport the GRI Content Index for the chosen option c. R  eport the reference to the External Integrated Annual Report, Annex 3 Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines G4-33 a. R  eport the organisation’s policy and Integrated Annual Report, page 7 No omissions current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. If not included in the assurance report Integrated Annual Report, Annex 3 accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided c. R  eport the relationship between Integrated Annual Report, Annex 3 the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest The findings of the external auditor (EY) have governance body or senior executives been discussed with a representative from are involved in seeking assurance for the Executive Board, in the Audit Committee the organisation’s sustainability report and in the Supervisory Board 123 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS G4-34 Report the governance structure of the Integrated Annual Report, pages 9, 66-71 No omissions organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-35 Report the process for delegating Integrated Annual Report, pages 66-71 No omissions authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Report whether the organisation has Sustainability falls under the responsibilities No omissions appointed an executive-level position of our Chief Operations Officer who is part or positions with responsibility for of the Executive Board economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Report processes for consultation Integrated Annual Report, page 60 No omissions between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Report the composition of the highest Integrated Annual Report, pages 8-11 and No omissions Principle 6 governance body and its committees by: 66-71 • Executive or non-executive • Independence • Tenure on the governance body • Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments • Gender • Membership of under-represented social groups • Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts • Stakeholder representation G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest The chairman of the Executive Board (Mr No omissions governance body is also an executive Peter Bommel) is the Managing Partner officer (and, if so, his or her function in the Netherlands. The chairman of the within the organisation’s management Supervisory Board (Mr Floris Deckers) holds and the reasons for this arrangement) no executive responsibilities within Deloitte. 124 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC G4-40 Report the nomination and selection Integrated Annual Report, pages 12-13 and processes for the highest governance 66-71 body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: • Whether and how diversity is Integrated Annual Report, page 70 considered • Whether and how independence is All partners and employees are required to considered confirm their independence on an annual basis. These confirmations are checked using random testing. • Whether and how expertise and Candidates for the Executive Board are experience relating to economic, required to be seasoned experts. Due to environmental and social topics are the strategic nature of the board’s tasks this considered always entails significant knowledge of either the national economy and/or the broader business environment of Deloitte. Having such in-depth knowledge is thus inherent to being a board member. • Whether and how stakeholders Members of the Executive Board are (including members) are involved appointed by the General Meeting of Members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. G4-41 Report processes for the highest Integrated Annual Report, page 69 No omissions governance body to ensure conflicts As an Audit firm, we maintain strict policies of interest are avoided and managed. and procedures regarding independence. Report whether conflicts of interest are All partners and employees are required to disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a confirm their independence on an annual minimum: basis. These confirmations are checked • Cross-board membership using random and selective testing. In • Cross-shareholding with suppliers and addition, all partners and employees are other stakeholders required to disclose their private holdings • Existence of controlling shareholder and financial investments including those • Related party disclosures that their direct dependants hold 125 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s Integrated Annual Report, page 68 No omissions and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop There are no specific programmes in this No omissions and enhance the highest governance area body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 a. R  eport the processes for evaluation Integrated Annual Report, page 69 No omissions of the highest governance body’s As the majority of the member of our performance with respect Supervisory Board are independent, to governance of economic, we deem their evaluation independent. environmental and social topics. In addition, in Fall 2015, we performed Report whether such evaluation is an independence review with all our independent or not, and its frequency. Supervisory Board members Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment b. R  eport actions taken in response to Integrated Annual Report, pages 66-71 evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organisational practice G4-45 a. R  eport the highest governance Integrated Annual Report, pages 66-71, 73 No omissions body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes b. R  eport whether stakeholder See G4-37 consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 126 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 | Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s Integrated Annual Report, pages 66-71, 73 No omissions role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest The Executive Board meets in principle No omissions governance body’s review of economic, every week to discuss all issues relevant to environmental and social impacts, risks, Deloitte. Meetings of the Supervisory Board and opportunities have taken place 12 times in the reporting year (also see Integrated Annual Report, pages 11 and 41) G4-48 Report the highest committee or position Our CFO, who is a member of the No omissions that formally reviews and approves the Executive Committee, is responsible for the organisation’s sustainability report and preparation of the Integrated Annual Report. ensures that all material Aspects are Sign-off takes place in the Supervisory covered Board. G4-49 Report the process for communicating We maintain formal and informal ways No omissions critical concerns to the highest of raising critical concerns. Formal ways governance body include the General Meeting of Members of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A., functional meetings and the Works Council meetings. Our culture is characterised by low thresholds. This is illustrated by open communication channels between the Board and employees. During special focus meetings and in internal media such as townhall meetings and other channels, employees are always invited to give their constructive feedback on policies and organisational performance. G4-50 Report the nature and total number Critical concerns are raised on Board level No omissions of critical concerns that were and the ethical incidents are reported on communicated to the highest governance pages 64 and 65 of the Integrated Annual body and the mechanism(s) used to Report. address and resolve them 127 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC G4-51 a. R  eport the remuneration policies for Integrated Annual Report, page 13 and 112 No omissions the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: • Fixed pay and variable pay: Integrated Annual Report, page 114 • Performance-based pay • Equity-based pay • Bonuses • Deferred or vested shares • Sign-on bonuses or recruitment No such bonuses or payments have incentive payments occurred • Termination payments No termination payments have occurred • Clawbacks Integrated Annual Report, pages 11-12 • Retirement benefits, including the All partners, including the members of the difference between benefit schemes Executive Board are responsible for their and contribution rates for the highest own retirement provisions. governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in Annual Report 2014/2015, pages 13, 15 and the remuneration policy relate to the 68 highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives G4-52 Report the process for determining See G4-51 No omissions remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organisation G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are Quality and compliance are two important No omissions sought and taken into account regarding criteria in determining the profit share for remuneration, including the results of partners. They are assessed internally as votes on remuneration policies and well as externally by independent regulators proposals, if applicable such as AFM and PCAOB. G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total The ratio within Deloitte is 8.6 No omissions compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country 128 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 | Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table GRI Description Reference/answer Omissions UNGC G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase As this is the first year in which the Executive No omissions in annual total compensation for the Board members are paid a fixed salary, we organisation’s highest-paid individual in cannot provide such calculations. each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, Integrated Annual Report, pages 64-65 No omissions principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Report the internal and external Integrated Annual Report, pages 64-65 No omissions mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external Integrated Annual Report, pages 64-65 No omissions mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines 129 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table Specific standard disclosures Omissions and , if applicable, reason Material issue GRI Aspect DMA Indicators for omission UNGC Indirect economic Indirect economic Integrated Annual Report, page G4-EC7 No omissions impact impacts 41 G4-EC8 Only qualitative as we lack the methodology to quantify our indirect economic impact. We do not have plans to develop and implement such a methodology in the near future Customer privacy Product Integrated Annual Report, page G4-PR8 No omissions Responsibility: 34 Customer privacy Employment Labour Practices People are crucial to Deloitte. G4-LA1 No omissions an Decent Work: Without the right people we G4-LA2 No omissions Employment would not be able to deliver our G4-LA3 No omissions purpose. Therefore, creating a unique and distinctive talent experience is at the heart of our talent strategy. We actively hire new employees, both graduates and experienced hires. This is important to our growth strategy as new talent deliver new insights and new experiences, which are vitally important to maintain our position as an innovative professional services provider. The responsibility for our people strategy lies with our Talent Partner, who is end-responsible for the Talent department, run by our Talent Director. In 2013/2014, we have redefined our Career and Remuneration Policy to allow for greater flexibility and differentiation. Training and Labour Practices Integrated Annual Report, pages G4-LA9 No omissions education an Decent Work: 31 and 32 G4-LA10 No omissions Training and G4-LA11 No omissions education 130 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table Omissions and , if applicable, reason Material issue GRI Aspect DMA Indicators for omission UNGC Diversity and Labour Practices To support our high performance G4-LA12 No omissions 6 equal opportunity an Decent Work: culture, Deloitte believes in a Diversity and culture where diverse talent Equal Opportunity thrives. Diversity is critical to innovation and long term success. We see diversity not primarily as a demographic issue, but as variety in thinking, feeling and acting. Gender, ethnic background and sexual orientation are all indicators of potential diversity. Deloitte recognises and appreciates these differences. As diversity covers so many aspects, it is impossible to capture all the different elements of our definition of diversity in measurable performance indicators. To encourage diversity, within our Talent department we have appointed diversity managers who are tasked with setting the conditions that allow for a diverse workforce. Our aim is to improve our diversity performance and inclusiveness in the coming years. Health and safety Labour Practices The health and wellbeing of our G4-LA5 No omissions an Decent Work: employees are important to G4-LA6 No omissions Occupational Deloitte as healthy employees G4-LA7 No omissions Health and Safety have a higher productivity and G4-LA8 Not applicable absenteeism comes at a cost. Our Labour Circumstances Policy (Arbeidsomstandighedenbeleid) defines roles and responsibilities in the implementation of the policy. Certified external experts assist in the Risk Inventory and Evaluation (RI&E) that is location specific. On the basis of this RI&E, an action plan is drawn up that is executed within a 3-5 year period. Each year, conform this plan, a concrete detailed year plan is drawn up capturing all planned measures. The overall policy was updated in September 2013. 131 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table Omissions and , if applicable, reason Material issue GRI Aspect DMA Indicators for omission UNGC Supply chain Environmental: Integrated Annual Report, page G4-EN32 No omissions 8, 9, 10 responsibility Supplier 48 G4-EN33 Partly covered as 8, 9, 10 Environmental we have only began Assessment implementation in 2013/2014 Social: Supplier G4-LA14 No omissions 4, 5, 6 Assessment for G4-LA15 Partly covered as 4, 5, 6 Labour Practices we have only began implementation in 2013/2014 Social: Supplier G4-HR10 No omissions 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 Human Rights G4-HR11 Partly covered as 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 Assessment we have only began implementation in 2013/2014 Anti-corruption Society: AntiIntegrated Annual Report, page G4-S03 No omissions 10 Corruption 65 G4-SO4 No omissions 10 G4-SO5 No omissions 10 Energy Energy We have set targets in 2012. Every G4-EN3 No omissions 8, 9 year, an environmental action G4-EN4 No omissions 8, 9 plan is drawn up holding the G4-EN5 No omissions 8, 9 planned activities for the fiscal G4-EN6 No omissions 8, 9 year. Progress is measured on a G4-EN7 No omissions 8, 9 quarterly basis and if necessary discussed with and between the relevant issue owners. See also: Integrated Annual Report, pages 48-50 CO2 emissions Emissions We have set targets in 2012. Every G4-EN15 No omissions 8, 9, 10 year, an environmental action G4-EN16 No omissions 8, 9, 10 plan is drawn up holding the G4-EN17 No omissions 8, 9, 10 planned activities for the fiscal G4-EN18 No omissions 8, 9, 10 year. Progress is measured on a G4-EN19 No omissions 8, 9, 10 quarterly basis and if necessary G4-EN20 Not material discussed with and between the G4-EN21 Not material relevant issue owners. See also: Integrated Annual Report, pages 48-50 132 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table Omissions and , if applicable, reason Material issue GRI Aspect DMA Indicators for omission UNGC Waste Effluents and We have set targets in 2012. Every G4-EN22 Not material 8, 9, 10 waste year, an environmental action G4-EN23 No omissions plan is drawn up holding the G4-EN24 Not material planned activities for the fiscal G4-EN25 Not material year. Progress is measured on a G4-EN26 Not material quarterly basis and if necessary discussed with and between the relevant issue owners. See also: Integrated Annual Report, page 50 Omissions and, if applicable, GRI reason for Code Description Reference or direct answer omission UNGC G4-EC7 Development and impact of The Deloitte Impact Foundation has spent No omissions infrastructure investments and services €188k in 2015/2016. Integrated Annual supported Report, page 40 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, Integrated Annual Report, page 41 Only including the extent of impacts qualitative as we lack the methodology to quantify our indirect economic impact. We do not have plans to develop and implement such a methodology in the near future. Environmental G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Integrated Annual Report, page 50 No omissions organization G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the Integrated Annual Report, page 50 No omissions organization 133 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table Omissions and, if applicable, GRI reason for Code Description Reference or direct answer omission UNGC G4-EN5 Energy intensity Integrated Annual Report, page 50 No omissions G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Integrated Annual Report, page 50 No omissions G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of Integrated Annual Report, page 49-50 No omissions products and services G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Integrated Annual Report, page 50 No omissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Integrated Annual Report, page 50 No omissions emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Integrated Annual Report, page 50 No omissions emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Integrated Annual Report, page 50 No omissions emissions G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Integrated Annual Report, page 51 We only disposal method distinguish between waste and hazardous waste and provide figures for collected and recycled G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Integrated Annual Report, page 48 No omissions screened using environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Integrated Annual Report, page 48 Partly covered environmental impacts in the supply as we have chain and actions taken only began implementation in the previous reporting year Social: Labour practices and decent work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Annex 2: GRI Reference Table, pages 137 and No figures hires and employee turnover by age 142 provided for group, gender and region hires per age category as we do not believe that age is a differentiator G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees There are no differences in benefits provided No omissions that are not provided to temporary to full-time employees as compared to partor part-time employees, by significant time employees locations of operation 134 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table Omissions and, if applicable, GRI reason for Code Description Reference or direct answer omission UNGC G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after All employees are entitled to take parental No omissions parental leave, by gender leave in accordance with Dutch law. Also see Annex 2: GRI Reference Table, page 142 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce Deloitte does not have formal jointNo omissions represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety management–worker health and safety committees. When necessary, health committees that help monitor and and safety policy and related issues are advise on occupational health and safety discussed in the Works Council programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Integrated Annual Report, page 40 No omissions occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk Due to the nature of our work, all our No omissions of diseases related to their occupation employees run risks of Repetitive Strain Injuries (RSI). As opportune or necessary we take measures to limit this risk and impact. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in We have no formal agreements with trade Not applicable formal agreements with trade unions unions G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee Integrated Annual Report, page 31 No omissions by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Integrated Annual Report 2015/2016, pages No omissions lifelong learning that support the 30 and 37-38 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Annex 2: GRI Reference Table, page 143 No omissions regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Integrated Annual Report, pages 9, 38-39 breakdown of employees per employee and 70 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Integrated Annual Report, page 48 No omissions screened using labor practices criteria 135 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information GRI Reference Table Omissions and, if applicable, GRI reason for Code Description Reference or direct answer omission UNGC G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative Integrated Annual Report, page 48 Partly covered impacts for labor practices in the supply as we have chain and actions taken only began implementation in the previous reporting year Social: Human rights G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Integrated Annual Report, page 48 No omissions screened using human rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative Integrated Annual Report, page 48 Partly covered human rights impacts in the supply chain as we have and actions taken only began implementation in the previous reporting year Social: Society G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Our anti-bribery and insider trading policies No omissions operations assessed for risks related are embedded in our daily operations and to corruption and the significant risks cross all our service lines identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiIntegrated Annual Report, page 65 No omissions corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and No incidents were reported in 2015/2016 actions taken No omissions Social: Product responsibility G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated Integrated Annual Report, page 33 No omissions complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 136 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information Selected information G4-10 Employment and turnover 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Average FTE’s 4,808 4,521 4,320 Average headcount 5,182 4,876 4,666 Total experienced hires (incl. partners) 347 311 221 < 30 years old 132 117 67 30 40 years old 167 139 101 40 50 years old 44 45 42 > 50 years old 4 10 11 Total partner hires 12 8 9 Total graduate hires 826 760 576 < 30 years old 797 739 559 30 40 years old 23 13 12 40 50 years old 4 8 3 > 50 years old 2 0 2 Total internship 340 290 227 Total exits 899 778 700 < 30 years old 444 377 319 30 40 years old 313 284 253 40 50 years old 87 63 84 > 50 years old 55 54 44 Total divestments 0 0 0 Part-time / Full time population (%) Part-time 2015/2016 Full-time 2015/2016 Part-time 2014/2015 Full-time 2014/2015 Population of Fee-earners 18% 82% 18% 82% Population of Support 48% 52% 49% 51% Population of Deloitte 23% 77% 24% 76% 137 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information Headcount male / female (excl. internships) Employment category 2015/2016 Male Female 2014/2015 Male Female Partners 253 231 22 244 223 21 Directors 258 221 37 247 220 27 Senior managers 591 453 138 570 458 112 Managers 728 530 198 704 534 170 Aspirant / Jr. Managers 1,402 895 507 1,339 902 437 Other Staff 1,816 917 899 1,658 926 732 G4-15 and G4-16 GRI We are an organisational stakeholder of the Global Reporting Memberships and charters Initiative (GRI) and have published external sustainability reports Deloitte Netherlands fully supports the commitments made by the based on the GRI Reporting Guidelines for a number of years. Due global DTTL organisation to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the to our continued support, we were awarded inclusion in the GRI World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative Gold community. (PACI) Principles, the Global Corporate Citizenship Initiative (GCCI), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Wherever possible, we In 2012, Deloitte Netherlands launched the GRI Taxonomy which translate these initiatives into local activities and initiatives and allows sustainability reporters to report on sustainability in an share our knowledge and experience with other member firms and XBRL format. This gives users of the report the chance to compare our clients. and analyse data electronically. Additionally, the electronic format can assist the reporting organisation in the data collection phase, Our support for these commitments enables us to: as XBRL can be linked with existing data information systems that the reporting organisation may use. We have used the taxonomy to •• Have an understanding of sustainability initiatives undertaken by publish our XBRL Sustainability Report since 2012. other member firms and identify opportunities to leverage and learn from these activities MVO Nederland •• Translate the commitments made by DTTL to the UNGC, We are an active member of the network of Sustainably World Economic Forum’s PACI Principles and Global Corporate Responsible Organisations (MVO) in the Netherlands. Citizenship Initiative and the GRI, into activities for Deloitte Netherlands World Economic Forum Deloitte supports the World Economic Forum and its initiatives. In •• Set targets for Deloitte Netherlands. 2015, Deloitte continued to focus on the role of business in society; •• UN Global Compact (UNGC) a theme that was originally introduced in 2012 and has consistently been built on since then. This year we specifically focused on the The UNGC is a voluntary international network of corporations, role that business can play in solving big issues in collaboration UN agencies, trade unions and non-governmental organisations with other stakeholders. that supports ten universal principles. Deloitte has made a public pledge to promote corporate responsibility in the areas of human International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Deloitte has joined the IIRC, an international body that aims to develop standards for integrated reporting. Integrated Reporting The Netherlands Network of the UNGC is an initiative of Dutch is a new approach to corporate reporting that demonstrates business leaders that aims to further the contribution of the linkages between an organization’s strategy, governance private business – within its sphere of influence – to sustainable and financial performance and the social, environmental and development. We actively participated in the Steering Committee economic context within which it operates. By reinforcing these of the Netherlands Network. This sustainability report serves as connections, Integrated Reporting can help business to take more the annual communication on progress regarding the UNGC. sustainable decisions and enable investors and other stakeholders 138 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information to understand how an organisation is really performing. On an international level, Deloitte is part of both the Council and the Working Group. Nederlandse Klimaat Coalitie In 2015/2016, Deloitte joined the Dutch Climate Coalition, a group of organisations that have vowed to work towards zero emissions. Our CEO Peter Bommel joined a group of influential politicians, scientists and business leaders on the Train to Paris for the final negotiations during the climate summit. G4-27 Issues raised by our stakeholders Our stakeholders voice their views and expectations. In the table below, we list the main expectations and issues per stakeholder group. We also provide our response to these expectations and issues and indicate how we address them in our strategy. In our Strategy 2020, we have identified six business priorities. The numbers in the table below refer to the number of the business priority: Ensure quality Become Accelerate Improve client Establish lean Seek the number growth and portfolio operations internationalisation one career innovation destination 139 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 | Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information Stakeholder Issues / expectations Deloitte response Links to business priorities Our clients and their Trustworthy partner Investment in long-term 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 shareholders High value products and relationships services Quality and teaming Fair price Cost optimisation programmes Quality, integrity and independence Undisputed reputation Our partners Return on investment Cooperative model for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Lead teams that make an decision-making impact that matters on the Global network of resources, client enabling each partner to Business synergies, being able be successful in his or her to find required additional professional domain expertise within the firm Strong partnership culture, Being part of a network that both in business and as provides, develops, challenges, colleagues for life teaches and coaches Our professionals Challenging projects Working in diverse and 1, 2, 3, 6 Personal, professional and multidisciplinary teams leadership development Continuous learning Rewarding and healthy workA diverse client portfolio life balance To have a collective impact with personal strengths Graduates Learning and coaching Working in diverse and 1, 2, 3, 6 Professional and leadership multidisciplinary teams development Continuous learning and onRecognition and reward thejob coaching High moral standards Competitive reward package Investments in ethics and sustainability Deloitte network Serve global and local clients in We are ranked eighth out of 1, 3, 4, 6 accordance with global policies the 42 members firms in terms and procedures of revenues Contribute to global revenues We contribute to the Build knowledge and local network in areas like experience that can be applied innovation, knowledge sharing, globally international management positions and client service collaboration We maintain strict procedures to comply with all relevant global policies 140 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information Stakeholder Issues / expectations Deloitte response Links to business priorities Regulators Improve quality Significant investments in a 1, 4 Reduce risks of auditing culture of the highest quality failures and compliance, with high Enhance public trust in the levels of awareness and the audit profession right tone at the top Full cooperation in case of investigations Open and transparent communication Society Deliver high quality services in Quality as number one priority 1, 4 both audit and advisory across the business Uphold high norms regarding Significant investments ethics, integrity and in culture, processes and independence procedures that strengthen ethics, integrity and independence Showing leadership by proactive participation in public debates, a.o. on ethical taxing and the future of audit Open and transparent communication and dialogue Media, Opinion leaders and Open, transparent and Issue and stakeholder 1, 2, 3, 6 NGOs relevant communication focused reporting (Annual Report, Sustainability Report, Transparency Report, Integrated Report Sharing insights through sector and industry reports Financial institutions Secure partnership with Long-term contracts within 1, 3, 4, 5 Deloitte when providing loans the regulatory boundaries or insuring our business risks related to issues such as Trust in audit opinions independence regarding organisations in Open and transparent their portfolio communication and dialogue Suppliers A fair chance to do business Long-term open relationships 1, 3, 5 with Deloitte with suppliers that support Long-term partnership that is our vision, and are able to mutually beneficial provide an optimal mix in quality, service, continuity and price Strict maintenance of regulatory requirements regarding independence 141 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information Stakeholder Issues / expectations Deloitte response Links to business priorities Competitors Level playing field Significant investments in a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Ethical market behaviour culture of compliance, with Maintaining a quality system high levels of awareness and that prevents events that the right tone at the top affect the reputation of the -We welcome a level playing industry as a whole field and differentiate through a culture of innovation and unique combinations of skills and competencies -We analyse the market in which we operate and assess to what extent activities of our competitors reflect on us and our reputation. G4-LA1 Employee Turnover Employment category Turnover male Turnover % male Turnover female Turnover % female Partners 8 3% 1 5% Directors 26 12% 4 11% Senior managers 69 15% 18 13% Managers 96 18% 35 18% Aspirant / Jr. Managers 159 18% 108 21% Other Staff 201 22% 174 19% G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 2015/2016 2014/2015 Male Female Male Female Employees who were entitled to parental leave 3,330 1,852 3,131 1,745 Employees who took parental leave 65 131 61 118 Employees returning from parental leave 19 61 27 54 Of the 27 Male, 54 Female returning to work in FY15, ultimo FY16 still 18 Male, 29 Female were still employed, this is 67% Male, 54% Female 142 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information G4-LA11 % of employees receiving regular performance & career development reviews 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Total 77% 79% 82% By gender 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Male 76% 79% 82% Female 78% 81% 83% By category 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Partners* 42% 39% 37% Directors 96% 92% 93% Senior managers 95% 96% 94% Managers 96% 98% 94% Aspirant / Jr. Managers 93% 94% 94% Other Staff 59% 63% 75% *All partners are reviewed on an annual basis. Allocation in partner category takes place every two years and the figures stated in the table refer to this allocation 143 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 | Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information Basis of Reporting The information presented in this report is collected from various –– Diesel: caloric vale per litre is 35,964 MJ online and offline, internal and external resources. In many cases, –– LPG: caloric value per litre is 24 MJ interviews with partners and employees took place in order to write •• Total kilometres travelled by plane are obtained from our travel the text. For the data, a variety of systems were used, including agents. It is standing policy that we use the most recent conversion but not limited to our SAP systems, the Runbook scenario for factirs. Hence, for the calculation of the related CO2 emissions, sustainability that is part of our quality controls and specific project we have used the 2013 conversion factors as provided by DEFRA data. (www.defra.gov.uk) using a classification that distinguishes economy, premium economy, business class and first class and Our people categorises air travel in domestic, short-haul international and The employee engagement score is calculated by taking the average long-haul international flights. For the various subgroups, the scores of the third and fourth quarters of 2015 and the first quarter following CO2 conversions are used: of 2016. –– Domestic average: 0.1583 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger –– Short-haul international average: 0.0933 kg CO2/kilometre per Lost days is the total of absent planned work days in one year. passenger Sickness leave is calculated by dividing the number of lost days by –– Short-haul international economy class: 0.0889 kg CO2/kilometre the total planned work days in one year. per passenger –– Short-haul international business class: 0.1334 kg CO2/kilometre Ecological footprint per passenger The data included in the ecological footprint chapter of this report is –– Long-haul international average: 0.1098 kg CO2/kilometre per gathered through a number of means: passenger •• Total electricity consumption is measured through metering in –– Long-haul international economy class: 0.0802 kg CO2/kilometre our offices. In multi-tenant buildings the electricity consumption per passenger of public spaces is allocated on the basis of the relative share of –– Long-haul international premium economy class: 0.1283 kg CO2/ the surface we rent in such buildings. All occupied offices have kilometre per passenger metering installed meaning that the figures for 2015/2016 can be –– Long-haul international business class: 0.2325 kg CO2/kilometre compared with those for 2011/2012 but not with the preceding per passenger years –– Long-haul-international first class: 0.3207 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger •• In single tenant buildings, the total gas consumption is obtained by reading the available gas meters. In multi-tenant buildings, gas •• The total kilometres travelled by train are obtained from our consumption is allocated on the basis of occupied office space by supplier Nederlandse Spoorwegen. For the calculation of Deloitte related CO2 emissions, we used a conversion factor of 0.030 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger as published by Nederlandse •• In buildings where Deloitte has full control, we purchase green Spoorwegen. electricity and gas. For other buildings, CO2 emissions are offset by purchasing green certificates so that total CO2 emissions are zero. •• In multi-tenant buildings, we do not have individual metering for water. This means that water consumption in such building is •• Total kilometres driven by lease cars as well as the number of lease attributed on the basis of the surface that Deloitte has in use cars in use are obtained from our supplier •• Total litres of petrol, diesel and LPG are obtained from our Other strategic KPIs supplier. For conversion of petrol to CO2 emissions we used the •• For determining our ranking as Employer of choice, we use the most recent conversions as published by SKAO. For the current Employer Rankings of Deloitte The Netherlands as published by report these conversions are published in the Handboek CO2 Universum Global for the category business students. Prestatieladder 2.2 (www.skao.nl): –– Petrol: 1 litre equals 2.78 kilogrammes CO2 •• Average profitability in growth areas is calculated by dividing the –– Diesel: 1 litre equals 3.135 kilogrammes CO2 gross margins by the turnover for PSI and FSI advisory clients. –– LPG: 1 litre equals 1.86 kilogrammes CO2 •• % of revenues from innovative offerings relates to the turnover •• As we do not separately monitor business trips, commuting and in pre-defined areas of Digital, Cyber, Analytics, Ecosystems/ privat use of lease cars, our data includes all these elements. partnerships, Fast ventures, CTRL and Project X-Ray and in line with DTTL practice a multiplier with factor 2 is applied to include •• For the conversion of fuel consumption to MJ, we used the the effects from innovative service offerings on regular services. following conversions as mentioned in the GRI G3.1 protocol for EN3, except in the case of LPG where we have opted for a locally accepted conversion value: –– Natural gas: caloric value per m3 is 39.01 MJ –– Petrol: caloric value per litre is 32,256 MJ 144 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 2 GRI Table and related sustainability information Selected information Offices in the Netherlands To contact any of our offices, please call us at +31 88 288 28 88 Alkmaar Robonsbosweg 5 Eindhoven Middelburg 1816 MK Alkmaar Flight Forum 1 Park Veldzigt 25 5657 DA Eindhoven 4336 DR Middelburg Amsterdam Gustav Mahlerlaan 2970 Groningen Rotterdam (Head Office) 1081 LA Amsterdam Eemsgolaan 15 Wilhelminakade 1 9727 DW Groningen 3072 AP Rotterdam Amsterdam Dynamostraat Dynamostraat 50 Hoorn Utrecht 1014 BZ Amsterdam Willemsweg 73 Orteliuslaan 982 1623 JB Hoorn 3528 BD Utrecht Arnhem Meander 551 Leeuwarden Venlo 6825 MD Arnhem Sophialaan 24-26 Sint Jansweg 20 8911 AE Leeuwarden 5928 RC Venlo Breda Bijster 5 Maastricht Zwolle 4817 HX Breda Amerikalaan 110 Grote Voort 207 6199 AE Maastricht Airport 8041 BK Zwolle Den Haag Schenkkade 47 2595 AR Den Haag 145 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 3 Other information Annex 3: Other information Appropriation of result according to articles of association 147 Independent auditor’s report 148 Assurance report sustainability 152 146 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 3 Other information Other information Appropriation of result according to articles of association “In Article 18 of the Cooperative’s articles of association the following has been presented concerning the appropriation of result: 1. The profit is fully distributed to the Members. 2. T  he General Meeting decides on appropriation of the profit based on a proposal by the Executive Board approved by the Supervisory Board. Profit will be distributed after adoption of the financial statements evidencing that this is permissible. 3. B  ased on a proposal by the Executive Board approved by the Supervisory Board, the General Meeting may decide to distribute to the Members profit of the current fiscal year. 4. If the Cooperative sustains a loss in any fiscal year, the Executive Board will submit to the General Meeting a proposal approved by the Supervisory Board regarding treatment of the loss. The General Meeting will take a decision with respect to treatment of the loss following the proposal submitted by the Executive Board as referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph. If losses have been charged to the capital accounts, no profit will be distributed until such losses have been made up. 147 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 3 Other information Independent auditor’s report Materiality To: the members, supervisory board and executive board of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Materiality €7,800,000 (2014/2015: €6,000,000) Benchmark used 1% of revenues Report on the audit of the financial statements Additional explanation We have chosen for revenues since pre-tax income is not deemed an Our opinion appropriate basis due to the fact that We have audited the financial statements for the year ended May the result is, to a large extent, paid 31, 2016 of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. (the company), based in out as membership fee to members Rotterdam. of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. In our opinion: We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible •• The financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the position of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. for the year ended May 31, financial statements for qualitative reasons. 2016, and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We agreed with the audit committee of the supervisory board that misstatements in excess of €390,000, which are identified The financial statements comprise: during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller •• The consolidated and company balance sheet for the year ended misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative May 31, 2016. grounds. •• The consolidated and company profit and loss account for the Scope of the group audit year ended May 31, 2016. Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. is head of a group of entities. The •• The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting financial information of this group is included in the consolidated policies and other explanatory information. financial statements of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. Basis for our opinion Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those audit. In this respect we have carried out audits ourselves on the standards are further described in the “Our responsibilities for the complete sets of financial information of the group. audit of the financial statements” section of our report. By performing the procedures mentioned above at group entities We are independent of Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. in accordance we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit with the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants evidence about the group’s financial information to provide an bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO) and other relevant independence opinion about the consolidated financial statements. regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants Our key audit matters (VGBA). Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. supervisory board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 148 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 3 Other information Risk Our audit response Revenue recognition and the valuation of unbilled work and receivables We refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements (page 86) The allocation of revenues to the respective financial years and the The process of recognizing revenues and the valuation of unbilled valuation of the unbilled work and related receivables are subject work includes estimates and involves many people and many to uncertain elements such as the extent to which the services subjective elements. Management has set up a comprehensive as contracted are delivered at the agreed quality level and the system of controls to reduce the subjective elements and to collectability of the receivables. This matter was identified as a establish a reliable recognition of revenues and valuation of significant risk for our audit. The related balance sheet captions unbilled work and receivables. represent a material part of the balance sheet total as per May 31, As part of our audit we focused on the controls to determine 2016, €194 million (51% of balance sheet total), of which €50 million whether they have functioned properly and we independently relates to unbilled work. tested a sample of unbilled work. The sample selection is based on a number of critical characteristics of the individual engagements. Professional liability We refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements (page 86) If Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. or one of its group companies receives As part of our audit we focused on the completeness of registered claims for compensation related to alleged damages, these are claims and on determining that the correct insurance coverage is generally covered by professional liability policies (insurance applied. policies). The legal defense expenses are also covered by the insurance policies. In addition, we evaluated whether the level of insurance coverage and any additional expenses justified the recognition of a provision The impact of legal claims from third parties on operating result up to the level of policy excess, or, in case of claims which are not is limited if claims are covered by the insurance policies. However, covered by insurance, the estimated total exposure. the impact can increase significantly in case of claims which fall outside the scope of insurance policies or if the amount involved exceeds the maximum coverage of the policies. Changes in organisation structure We refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements (page 82-84) On June 1, 2015, Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. became the ultimate During our audit we reviewed the various underlying documents parent of Deloitte Holding B.V. and its subsidiaries. In addition, and we took notice of the position papers prepared by the on May 23, 2016 Deloitte Holding B.V. was appointed as the sole company in respect of the transactions. The various elements of Board member of Stichting InterNos and obtained control over the transactions were discussed with parties involved, including Stichting InterNos. Therefore Stichting InterNos is now included in management and the audit committee. the consolidated financial statements per May 31, 2016. The proper accounting for these two complicated transactions is considered a significant risk for our audit. The model of the profit-and-loss-account We refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements (page 86) 149 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 3 Other information Risk Our audit response As disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, The executive board concluded that the addition of a separate specific contractual arrangements existed/exist between Deloitte line item, which is not included in the models of the Formats Holding B.V./Coöperatief Deloitte U.A and its shareholders/ Decree, is the most adequate presentation. The Formats Decree members, and between shareholders/members themselves allows this amendment and the notes to the consolidated financial via the foundations Stichting Financiering Deloitte and Stichting statements contain the required disclosures related to the InterNos. Based on these arrangements, shareholders are entitled amended presentation. to associate fees resp. members are entitled to management fees and profit distributions. As the contractual arrangements do not provide information that might be suitable for a further interpretation of the remuneration elements in the associate fees, it is not possible to determine how to record the fees in line with the financial statements Formats Decree. Responsibilities of the executive board and the supervisory be expected to influence the economic decisions of users board for the financial statements taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our The executive board is responsible for the preparation and fair audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified presentation of the financial statements, and for the preparation of misstatements on our opinion. the management board report, both in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the executive board We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained is responsible for such internal control as management determines professional skepticism throughout the audit, in accordance is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or independence requirements. Our audit included e.g.: error. •• Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, executive board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a framework mentioned, the executive board should prepare the material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, unless the executive board either intends to liquidate the company intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. internal control. The executive board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue •• Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the as a going concern in the financial statements. audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the company’s opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. financial reporting process. •• Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements disclosures made by management. Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit •• Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of evidence for our opinion. the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude and fraud. that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 150 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 3 Other information audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. We report that the executive board report, to the extent we can However, future events or conditions may cause the company assess, is consistent with the financial statements. ceasing to continue as a going concern. Engagement •• Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the We were engaged by the executive board as auditor of the group in financial statements, including the disclosures. 2003, and have operated as statutory auditor since that year. The •• Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the audit of the financial statements for the year ended May 31, 2016 underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair comprised the last year that we have served as the auditor of the presentation. company. Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are Amsterdam, September 2, 2016 also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities Ernst & Young Accountants LLP or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items. Signed by O.E.D. Jonker We communicate with the supervisory board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. We provide the supervisory board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the supervisory board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Report on the executive board report and the other information Pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report about the executive board report and other information): •• We have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the executive board report, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and whether the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been annexed. 151 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 3 Other information Assurance report sustainability Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Report based Assurance report of the independent auditor on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch To: Shareholders, Supervisory Board and Executive Board of law, including the Dutch Standard 3810N “Assurance engagements Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. relating to sustainability reports”. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and that we plan and perform the audit We have audited the sustainability information in the chapters to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Report is free ‘’Our year at a glance’’, ‘’About this report’’, ‘’Report of the Executive from material misstatement. Board (excluding the ‘In control statement’)’’, ’’Our impact”, ‘’Our interaction with stakeholders’’, ‘’Our way of working (excluding The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, ‘roles and responsibilities’ and ‘risk management’)’’, ‘’Annex: GRI including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement table and related sustainability information’’ and ‘’Annex: Key of the Report, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk numbers of our value creation by stakeholder category’’ of the assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant for the Integrated Annual Report 2015/2016 (hereinafter: the Report) of preparation of the Report in order to design audit procedures that Coöperatief Deloitte U.A., Rotterdam (hereinafter: Deloitte). The are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of Report comprises a description of the policy, the activities, events expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal and performance of Deloitte relating to sustainable development control. An assurance engagement aimed on providing reasonable during the reporting year 2015/2016. assurance also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting framework used and the reasonableness of accounting Limitations in our scope estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall The Report contains prospective information, such as ambitions, presentation of the Report. strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this information is that actual future results may be different from the Procedures performed prospective information and therefore may be uncertain. We do Our main procedures included the following: not provide any assurance on the assumptions and feasibility of •• Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining an this prospective information. understanding of the sector, relevant social issues, relevant laws and regulations and the References in the Report (to www.deloitte.nl, external websites characteristics of the organization. and other documents) are outside the scope of our assurance engagement. •• Evaluating the acceptability of the reporting policies and their consistent application, such as assessment of the outcomes of Management’s responsibility the stakeholder dialogue and the reasonableness of accounting Management of Deloitte is responsible for the preparation of the estimates made by management. Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines •• Evaluating the application level in accordance with the G4 (option Comprehensive) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 (option Comprehensive) and the reporting criteria developed by Deloitte, including the of GRI. identification of the stakeholders and the determination of material issues. The disclosures made by management with respect to •• Evaluating the design and implementation and operating the scope of the Report and the reporting criteria are included in effectiveness of the systems and processes for data gathering chapter “About this report” and “Basis of reporting”. and processing of information as presented in the Report. •• Interviewing management (or relevant staff) at corporate level Furthermore management is responsible for such internal control responsible for the sustainability strategy and policies. as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to •• Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing the fraud or error. information in the Report, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and the consolidation of the data in the Report. •• Investigating internal and external documentation, including examination of information on a test basis, to determine whether the information in the Report is reliable. •• Analytical review of the data and trend explanations at group level. 152 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 3 Other information We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, and with due consideration of the limitations described in the paragraph “Limitations in our scope”, the Report provides, in all material respects, a reliable and appropriate presentation of the policy of Deloitte for sustainable development, and of the activities, events and performance of the organization relating to sustainable development during 2015/2016, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 (option Comprehensive) of the GRI and the reporting criteria developed by Deloitte as disclosed in chapter “About this report” and “Basis of reporting”. Emphasis of matter Without affecting the opinion of our engagement, we would like to draw the readers’ attention to table 07 on page 60 where Deloitte summarizes how they have determined the views of their stakeholders, to paragraph ‘Gaining insights and setting targets’ on page 61 where Deloitte discloses that the new sustainability targets set in 2015/2016 will be consulted with their stakeholders in the next reporting year, and to Chapter ‘Ensure Quality’ on page 29, where Deloitte describes that they are in the process of developing a basis to report the KPI’s for target ‘Ensure Quality’. Amsterdam, September 2, 2016 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP Signed by O.E.D. Jonker 153 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 4 key numbers of our value creation per stakeholder category Annex 4: key numbers of our value creation per stakeholder category 154 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 4 key numbers of our value creation per stakeholder category Regulators >4 Formal meetings with AFM Society 2,630 30,000 1,440 253 m Legally required Children reached through Deloitters who participated in Taxes paid by Deloitte audit performed Fair Chance Foundation FCF projects since 2012 since 2012 Media, opinion leaders & NGOs 51 49 4 Press releases in 2015/2016 Publications available Reports explaining Deloitte’s strategy & performance For access to our press releases and (business) reports, please visit www.deloitte.nl Clients and their stakeholders Supliers* 13,750 Number of clients € 283.4 m 65.0% Total supplier spend Spend in accordance *Our Supplier Code (containing sustainability related requirements) 155 is under implementation since 2014 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 4 key numbers of our value creation per stakeholder category Our people 5,182 343 m 253 Average headcount Compensation & beneﬁts Partners in euros (Average headcount) € 82.7 m 18 Capital provided by Newly appointed partners in 2015/2016 partners in 2015/2016 Financial institutions € 785.3 m € 122.3 m 19.9 $ 35.2 Bn Turnover in millions Operating result in Debt service Turnover of our of euros millions of euros coverage ratio global network in 2014/2015 Relative position in international network of 46 member ﬁrms based on turnover in 2014/2015 156 Integrated Annual Report Coöperatief Deloitte U.A. 2015/2016 |  Annex 4 key numbers of our value creation per stakeholder category Graduates >1,300 70.4% Graduate new hires Graduate new hires as % of total hires Competitors Relative size in turnover (base 2014/2015) 1. EY 2. PWC 3. Deloitte 4. KPMG Relative size in FTE (base 2014/2015) 1. Deloitte 2. PWC 3. EY 4. KPMG 157 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.nl/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, tax, and related services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte’s more than 225,000 professionals are committed to making an impact that matters. This communication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte network”) is, by means of this communication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this communication. © 2016 Deloitte The Netherlands
