CSR Report 2017 Love today, f e . Love your li CONT ENTS Editorial Policy 01 About Lion Lion views its CSR Report as an important tool al04 Message from the Management lowing the company to present its CSR initiatives and draw on stakeholder opinions while furthering 06 Company Motto/Management Philosophy/ corporate activities. Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior 07 Corporate Message Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2017 ● Since 2011, our CSR activities have been systematized in 08 Lion’s CSR accordance with ISO 26000, an international standard concerning social responsibility. The CSR Report also reflects 09 Overview of Lion’s Social and Environthe above. mental Contribution Activities ● CSR Report 2017 discloses major CSR issues and their prog10 History of Lion Group’s Business ress in 2016 towards the 2017 Medium-term Objectives corActivities responding to Lion’s management plan. 12 Establishing the Group-wide CSR Management Structure ● Details of the activities that have especially demonstrated progress are provided as 2016 Highlights so that the readers 14 Objectives of the Medium-Term Mancan more easily understand the contents. agement Plan and Achievements in 2016 in Relation to CSR Material Issues ● The URLs at the bottom of the pages on each core subject of ISO 26000 direct to the CSR website, which includes more 18 2016 Highlight 01 details of the activities. Lion Group’s Educational Activities for Hy● Readers can access Lion’s primary web pages through the giene Care Habits in Japan and Overseas two-dimensional bar codes (smartphone-friendly website). 24 2016 Highlight 02 ● A third-party review by outside expert has been included to Promoting Work-Life Balance by Supprovide an objective assessment. porting Employees Raising Children and ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards were used as a referProviding Nursing Care for Their Family ence guide for producing this report. 26 2016 Highlight 03 ● Lion’s CSR activities, including those that were not introFull-Scale Operation of Waste Waduced in this report, are comprehensively presented on the ter Recycling System at Chiba Plant CSR website. Reference Guidelines 28 Organizational Governance ● The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of the Japanese Ministry of the Environment 31 Human Rights ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative 32 Labor Practices ● ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on social responsibility issued by the Japanese Standards Association [Comparative Table with Respective Guidelines] 36 The Environment URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/report/ Coverage 42 Fair Operating Practices ● Lion Corporation and all domestic consolidated subsidiaries are covered, as a rule. 44 Consumer Issues Overseas group companies are included in the CSR Medium-term Objectives and Achievements on p14-17. *When the coverage of reported activities or data is different, a descripCommunity Involvement tion is provided. 49 and Development Period Covered 52 Third-Party Review ● January 1 to December 31, 2016 (Some parts of the activities also include parts of 2017.) 53 Lion’s Response/Editorial Note About Lion Corporate Data Performance Transition Corporate Name Lion Corporation (consolidated) 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo Address 130-8644, Japan Net Sales （百万円） Foundation Date October 30, 1891 (million yen) 395,606 400,000 378,659 367,396 Capital ¥ 34,433.72 million (as of December 31, 2016) 352,005 350,000 335,171 Representative Itsuo Hama, Representative Director/President 300,000 Consolidated: 6,895 Employees 250,000 Non-consolidated: 2,510 (as of December 31, 2016) Consolidated: ¥ 395,606 million 200,000 Net Sales Non-consolidated: ¥ 260,935 million (as of December 2016) 0 Chiba Plant (Ichihara City), Odawara Plant (Odawara City), 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016（年） (year) Plants Osaka Plant (Sakai City), Akashi Plant (Akashi City) Research Facilities Hirai (Edogawa-ku), Odawara (Odawara City) Operating Income Sales Offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Fukuoka （百万円） (million yen) 25,000 24,502 [List of Major Subsidiaries and Affiliates] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/group/ 20,000 16,374 15,000 12,406 10,819 Net Sales Breakdown by Business 10,000 7,213 Consumer Products Business ¥287,028 million 5,000 Oral Care Products ¥63,596 million 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016（年） (year) Beauty Care Products ¥22,333 million Fabric Care Products ¥80,240 million Ordinary Income Living Care Products ¥20,763 million （百万円） (million yen) Pharmaceutical Products ¥40,958 million 28,000 26,290 Other Products ¥59,135 million 24,000 Industrial Products Business ¥54,330 20,000 18,099 million 16,000 14,059 Overseas Business ¥110,933 million 12,300 12,000 Others ¥26,867 million 8,564 8,000 Adjustment* ¥83,553 million 4,000 Consolidated Net Sales ¥395,606 million 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016（年） (year) *Intra-segment and inter-segment sales Net Income Location of Overseas Group Companies Overseas sales Ratio of （百万円） (million yen) 15,951 16,000 compared to previous year: 106% Overseas sales (consolidated): 25% (After adjustment) 14,000 China (Lion Daily Necessities 12,000 10,680 Hong Kong Chemicals (Qingdao) Co., Ltd.) (Lion Corporation (Hong Kong) Ltd.) 10,000 South Korea 8,000 7,368 Thailand (CJ Lion Corporation) 6,097 (Lion Corporation (Thailand) Ltd.) 6,000 Taiwan (Lion Chemical 4,235 Industry (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.) 4,000 Malaysia (Lion Home Products 2,000 (Southern Lion Sdn. Bhd.) (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.) (Lion Eco Chemicals Sdn. Bhd.) 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016（年） (year) Indonesia (P.T. Lion Wings) Singapore (Lion Corporation [IR Library] (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/ir/library/ Lion CSR Report 2017 01 About Lion Main Business Segments [Product Lineup of Consumer Products Business] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/products/ Oral Care Main Products Toothpastes, toothbrushes, dental rinses and other dental care products. Lion provides products for advanced oral care to support daily health. Beauty Care Main Products Hand soaps, body washes, antiperspirants and deodorants, shampoos, conditioners, men's cosmetics, hair-nourishing treatments. Lion promotes comfort, health and wellbeing through its hair and skin care products. Fabric Care Main Products Laundry detergents, fabric softeners, bleaches, clothing care agents. Lion provides safe, reliable products that make clothes not only clean but a pleasure to wear. Living Care Main Products Dishwashing detergents, household cleaners, cooking-aid products. Lion offers products that promote clean and comfortable eating and living. 02 Lion CSR Report 2017 Pharmaceuticals Main Products Antipyretic analgesics, antidiarrheas, gastrointestinal medicines, eye drops, health tonic drinks, insecticides. Lion offers an abundant lineup of products under quality brands to meet growing self-medication needs. Wellness Direct Main Products Health food products, hair care products. Lion offers direct-to-consumer sales products that meet a variety of consumer health and beauty needs. Gift and Special Order Main Products Gifts, novelties. Lion provides a variety of gift and special-order products for its customers. Pet Supplies Main Products Sanitary products, pet oral care, body care, pet laundry care and room care products. (Lion Trading Co., Ltd.) Lion helps make the lifestyles of pet owners and their animals more enjoyable through products that promote cleanliness, health and comfort. Lion CSR Report 2017 03 Message from the Management Create New Values from “New Combinations” and Continue to Benefit Society through Business Activities Representative Director, President Executive Officer (Itsuo Hama) Since its foundation in 1891, Lion has continued to “Environment,” with the company motto of “Fulfilling respond through business activities to social issues, which a Spirit of Love,” Lion is aiming to help extend people’s have changed with the times. In Japan and other Asian healthy life expectancy and realize a sound materialcountries, people’s lives and social conditions have undercycle society in which resources are conserved and reused. gone rapid and considerable changes. For example, the We will make efforts to further improve corporate transformation of the way of living brought about by the value as a highly reliable company capable of responding digitalization and drastic technological innovation repto expectations from all stakeholders. To this end, we will resented by IoT on one hand, and on the other hand, a provide products and services while putting a top priorslowdown in the economic growth and the advance of ity on customer satisfaction, promotion of environmenthe aging society. tal conservation activities, and further enhancement of Amid such social changes, with empathy towards peocorporate governance systems. ple, Lion accurately identifies problems and creates new values from the “New Combinations,” of product and experience, through our business and CSR activities withA  iming to become a company that creates out being bound by existing values, and makes efforts value for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment for solving problems. Our founding spirit of “Benefiting Society through In 2016, Lion continued promoting “preventive denBusiness Activities” has been embedded into our busitistry” and conducted educational activities to enhance ness activities and employees as Lion’s DNA in various proper self-care and professional care. We introduced forms with the change of times. new oral care products including toothpastes, toothIn its “Vision 2020,“ Lion clearly states that it aims to brushes and dental products for self-care, and conducted become a “company that creates value for lifestyle and oral health educational activities for each stage in life spiritual fulfillment,” a “company that is advanced in with the Lion Foundation for Dental Health, and coopthe area of environmental responsiveness” and a “comerating with government agencies. Consequently, such pany that continues to take on challenges, create and activities increased the recognition and awareness of learn” in our business fields of “Health,” “Comfort,” and “preventive dentistry.” 04 Lion CSR Report 2017 In addition, our Wellness Direct business (a mail order business) grew steadily, contributing to the creation of new values through foods with function claims. As for overseas, educational activities for “preventive dentistry” and hand washing were fostered in each country, and products for personal care, such as “Systema” and “KireiKirei” brands, largely grew with proactive marketing activities. Under the group-wide philosophy of contributing to the formation of clean, healthy and comfortable living habits not only in Japan but also in other Asian countries, in addition to providing products, we hope to help form such living habits by conducting educational activities for oral care and hand washing. we introduced a Short Hours Flextime System and also revised the existing nursing care leave systems in order to A  iming to become a company that is advanced allow employees to work long term without anxiety. We in the area of environmental responsiveness will continue to enhance the system. Regarding support for balance between work and With the goals of achieving a “Low Carbon Society,” a childcare, in addition to existing childcare leave systems, ”Sound Material-Cycle Society,” and “Harmonizing with we held a Back-to-Work Seminar prior to return to work, Nature,” Lion formulated the environmental objective and created a website to support employees returning of ”Eco Vision 2020,” and has worked on it to attain the to work and raising children to work without anxiety aftargets in 2020, including reductions in CO2 emissions and ter the childcare leave, and to be actively involved in water consumption. work over the long term. As for the reduction in CO2 emissions, aspiring to achieve In March of 2016 we established a special subsidiary our target in 2020, which is higher than the target that Lion Tomoni Co., Ltd. and started the employment of Japan has set at COP 21, we further reduced emissions in people with disabilities. We will continue to strive to 2016. Moreover, we have continued to support our custombuild a company where people can take advantage of ers’ ecological lifestyle by expanding eco products fulfilling their individual abilities regardless of whether they have Lion’s eco-standards, which were established originally by disabilities or not. Lion, from the viewpoint of product lifecycles. I continued to hold the presidential sessions at Lion’s With regard to the reduction in water consumption, business offices nationwide in 2016. At the meetings we have developed a technology to recycle factory effluwith employees, I proactively shared Lion’s Management ent, and successfully reduced water consumption after Vision, and kept discussing specific measures to achieve the new waste water recycling system went into fullthe vision. scale operation at Chiba Plant in 2016. We will aim at achieving “Vision 2020“ with a cycle in Lion will contribute to the realization of a sustainable which each of our employees predicts social trends, society with the development of advanced green techtakes on challenges to pursue new creations, and learns nologies and through communication with stakeholders. from the challenges. Aiming at CSR Management A  iming to become a company that continues to take on challenges, create and learn In order to remain a company that is trusted by society, it is important to integrate CSR within the managerial strucThe target management system was implemented in ture of the company. order to foster human resources, who voluntarily take on Hence, we reviewed our management challenges in challenges and create new values. In addition, we continlight of our understanding of the requirements of the ued our on-going programs such as training for each job society as included in the international standard of social function (e.g. the marketing training program), the “Lion responsibility, ISO 26000, and identified CSR material Challenge Cup-Innovation” in which Lion’s future is directly issues. For the “Vision 2020” V-2 period, we set groupproposed to management, and the “L-Compass Award,” wide medium-term objectives including those for overa commendation program with the purpose of improving seas group companies, and are conducting CSR activities organizational learning. as a whole. Furthermore, in 2016, Lion enhanced support proIn 2009, Lion announced its support for the UN Global grams for work-life balance of employees raising children Compact: a global framework to realize sustainable and employees providing nursing care for their family. growth. We will continue to support it and make efforts In terms of Lion’s support for employees to maintain a toward CSR management with a strong awareness of balance between work and nursing care for their family, “Health,” “Comfort” and “Environment.” Lion CSR Report 2017 05 Company Motto/Management Philosophy/ Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior Company Motto Lion Corporation positions “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love” as fundamental to its management, and thus contributes to the enrichment of the happiness and lives of people. Management Philosophy We bring together the power of our personnel, the power of our tech1 nology and the power of our marketing, as we provide superior products that are helpful in the daily lives of people. We respect the “Spirit of Tenacity and Creativity” that we have maintained since 2 our founding, as we continue developing our business. We deeply appreciate all those who extend their valuable support to us, 3 as we prosper together through sincerity and mutual trust. Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior Established January 1, 2003 and amended January 1, 2008 We, the Lion Group, shall, in addition to being an economic entity designated to pursue profits through fair competition, act as a social entity that contributes to society at large. We shall respect human rights and conduct ourselves with initiative in a socially responsible manner toward the creation of a sustainable society, observing both the spirit as well as the letter of all applicable laws and international rules and not harming the public interest, both in Japan and abroad, in accordance with the following 10 principles. 1. [Principal Mission] We shall earn the confidence and 8. [Contribution in Foreign Countries] In our overseas opsatisfaction of customers (consumers and users) by proerations, we shall not only observe international rules and viding excellent, safe goods and services useful for their the laws of relevant foreign countries, but also respect lodaily lives. cal cultures and customs and contribute to the development of local communities with sincerity and mutual trust. 2. [Compliance with Public Rules] We shall observe all relevant laws and regulations and engage in fair, trans9. [Practice of Corporate Ethics] Top management shall parent and free competition and proper transactions. assume responsibility for implementing the spirit of this We shall maintain sound and proper relationships with Charter and shall take the initiative to set a good examgovernmental and political bodies. ple and fully inform Lion Group employees of the Char3. [Disclosure] We, as a socially open company, shall acter. Top management shall strive to take in internal and tively engage in communication not only with our external opinions continuously to promote mutual understanding and the development and implementation shareholders but also with members of society at large and disclose information generally regarding Company of effective internal control systems while enforcing management in an appropriate and timely manner. thorough compliance with corporate ethics. 4. [Environmental Issues] We shall play a positive and ac10. [Resolution of Problems] Should an incident contrary to the principles of this Charter occur, top managetive role in creating a sustainable society that harmonizes economic development and environmental protection. ment shall publicly clarify its position, taking responsibility to resolve the problem on its own initiative, and 5. [Improvement of Working Environments] We shall strive to investigate the facts, identify the causes of the promote fair treatment and respect the diversity, individincident and prevent recurrences. Top management uality and personalities of our employees. We shall enshall fulfill its responsibility to disclose accurate inforsure a safe and comfortable workplace to realize the mation promptly and explain the situation, and shall mental and physical well-being of our employees. resolve the problem in a manner fully understandable 6. [Contribution to Society] We shall actively contribute to society. After clarifying authority and responsibility to society as good cooperate citizens. for said problem, top management shall impose strict and impartial disciplinary actions upon any liable per7. [Opposition to Antisocial Forces] We shall firmly opsons, including the highest level of management. pose antisocial entities and organizations threatening the order and security of civil society. 06 Lion CSR Report 2017 Corporate Message Lion's CSR Lion has been a regular part of everyday life for more than 120 years. In that time, we have seen how ordinary days, one by one, add up to a lifetime. The Heart of Moreover, we have come to believe that each new day is the first step into All We Do Organizational Governance a bright future, and that living every day positively and to the fullest is the essence of happiness. That is why we have made it our mission at Lion to contribute to ordinary life, every day, and reflected this commitment in our corporate slogan. Human Rights Labor Practices The Environment Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues Community Involvement and Corporate Slogan Development Lion CSR Report 2017 07 Lion’s CSR Business Activities Supporting Healthy and Comfortable Society and Environment The origins of Lion’s approach to CSR can be traced to our founding spirit of “working for the benefit of people and society.” With the robust business foundation established based on the Company Motto and the Management Philosophy, Lion has contributed to sustainable development of society through conducting business activities under the management vision and by integrating CSR material issues. Sustainable corporate and social development In 2020 Management V-3 Plan Vision (Vision 2020) A company that creates value for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment Ideal Vision long into the future by consisAiming to become a company that creates tently safeguarding health, comvalue for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment Aiming to become a company that is advanced fort, and the environment for in the area of environmental responsiveness people each and every day Aiming to become a company that continues to take on challenges, create and learn In 2017 V-2 Plan Health Business Promotion of PDCA Comfort Business Environmentallyfriendly Business In 2014 CSR Material Issues See Pages 14 to 17 V-1 Plan Foundation for Business Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior/Behavioral Guidelines Company Motto/Management Philosophy Company Motto/Management Philosophy Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior/Behavioral Guidelines http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0101f.htm http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0201f.htm 08 Lion CSR Report 2017 Lion’s CSR Overview of Lion’s Social and Lion's CSR Environmental Contribution Activities Seeking to support people’s lives for creating future value for everyone, Lion promotes social and environOrganizational Governance mental contribution activities, in addition to its business activities. Business Activities Supporting people’s lives for creating future value for everyone Human Rights Social and Environmental Contribution Activities In the Health and Comfort Field In the Environmental Field Educational Activities for Water Resource Oral Health Conservation Activities Management Vision Labor Practices Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits The Environment Related information p51 Related information p50-51 Fair Operating Practices Our Priorities Co-existence with communities Involvement of employees In the Health and Comfort Field In the Environmental Field While providing products useful for making betWe strive to reduce the environmental load of our ter living habits, such as oral care products includproducts to create a more eco-friendly lifestyle. Consumer Issues ing toothpastes and toothbrushes, as well as As our main products, such as laundry detergents, cleanliness-related products such as hand soaps, toothpastes, hand soaps, and dishwashing deterwe conduct educational activities for oral health gents, are deeply related to water through “washand hygiene care habits. ing,” we also actively conduct water resource conservation activities. Community Involvement and Our priorities As it is necessary to co-exist with relevant communities, such as communities where our business facilities are located, in order to continue our business, we work to solve the issues of local communities in cooperation with local residents, local government, and citizens’ groups. Development In addition, by providing each employee more opportunities to participate in social and environmental contribution activities related to business, we foster human resources who create new values based on a high degree of social and environmental awareness. Lion CSR Report 2017 09 Lion’s CSR History of Lion Group’s Business Activities Functions added to products in response Oral Hygiene Business to people’s needs, as well as awareness of and education about oral hygiene Founding Growth Mass Production (From 1896) (From 1913) (1960s to 1970s) Promoting oral hygiene / Starting educational activiExpanding the market and develThe foundation of social ties to instill tooth brushing oping world-class products contribution activities habits in children Lion Toothpowder Tooth paste was sold alongside such promotional gifts as picture books in order to help to teach the importance of tooth brushing from an early age Completion of the Odawara Plant (Reinforcement of the production system) White & White Charity coupons printed on the (Development of laminated tubes, back of packets (The root of Lion’s which are easy to use) social contribution activities) Lion Dental Clinic for Children Culture of Cleanliness and Education about cleanliness and Environmentally-friendly Business measures for the global environment Promotion of Contribution to improved Resposnse to the water awareness of hygiene hygiene in post-war Japan environment issues (1891 to 1940s) (1950s) (1960s to 1980s) Promoted awareness about Contributed to the eradication of Responded to the floating bubbles and washing with detergent parasites with a neutral detereutrophication, which occurred in rivers gent for washing vegetables as the use of synthetic detergents became popular Manual on the Lipon standard home (Japan’s first fatty laundry procedures alcohol-based (Education on laundry synthetic detergent) procedures) Lipon F (Earned the top recommendation of the Japan Food Hygiene Association) Dash Murin (phosphorus-free) TOP Plant-derived Lion Laundry Soap (Japan’s first plant-derived soap) 10 Lion CSR Report 2017 Lion’s origins lie in soap and toothpaste. Since the foundation, we have promoted a culture of cleanliness and oral hygiene by providing useful products, and have driven educational activities and provision of information, thus helping to foster good habits. Lion's CSR Building on these strengths, the Lion Group has been focusing on oral hygiene, cleanliness and environmental friendliness, which are of great importance as social issues, as our main business domain. Oral hygiene is Lion’s core area of business. Over the years, we have contributed to the improvement of peoOrganizational Governance ple’s living habits by developing many products with new functions, and have disseminated accurate information about oral hygiene. Expansion (From 1970s onward) Present Responding to diversifying oral health issues From oral hygiene to systemic health with more scientific research Promotion of “preventive dentistry” Human Rights Clinica Clinica Advantage series (For prevention of cavities) (Promotion of “preventive dentistry”) Dentor Labor Practices (For prevention of pyorrhea) Dentor Systema series Educational activities for oral (For prevention of health in other Asian countries periodontal disease) The Environment From the days when notions about cleanliness were less well formed until the present day, through supplying many kinds of detergent, including laundry detergents and soaps, Lion has helped instill a culture of cleanliness in the society. In product development, we are currently tackling global environmental issues beginning with those relating to water. Response to petroleum Actions to meet increasing needs Present Fair Operating Practices resources issues and for disinfectants that came out of resource conservation food poisoning cases (1990s) (1990s to 2000s) Expanded a line of prodLaunched medicated soaps and Response to water resources issues ucts based on plantdeveloped educational activities and water use reductions derived materials for children Consumer Issues TOP SUPER TOP LOOK Bath CHARMY Shokubutsu-Monogatari NANOX HYGIA Antimold Fogger Magica (Plant Story) Educational activities to make hand washing a habit Contributing to a clean lifestyle in Asia Community Involvement and Development Spark KireiKirei KireiKirei Overseas NANOX Overseas KireiKirei Medicated Liquid Medicated Foaming Hand soap Hand Soap Lion CSR Report 2017 11 Lion’s CSR Establishing the Group-wide CSR Management Structure Setting objectives and managing progress We have promoted our CSR activities based on the ISO For each of the material issues, we have set a three-year 26000, a global social responsibility standard, since 2011, medium-term objective, which is consistent with our manand by listening to and incorporating the opinions of third agement plan. party organizations, we have confirmed and evaluated In addition, we identified the objectives to achieve to our achievements in our domestic group. By considering which we must contribute through our businesses by anaglobal CSR trends, our company’s unique business characlyzing issues related to the Sustainable Development Goals teristics, potential risks, opportunities and their respective (SDGs) in the countries and regions we operate in. implications, we identified CSR material issues in 2012. The Process to Identify Material Issues International CSR initiatives including ISO 26000 and UN Global Compact Internal factors External factors Our ideal vision for 2020 and its alignment with Needs of stakeholders that can be addressed basic strategies leading up to it through dialogues with Lion ▶Management Vision (Vision 2020) ▶Medium-term management plan Lion’s CSR Material Issues Value Chain and Material Issues (Activities in 2016 are described in related pages.) Stages of Procurement of Raw Materials, Major Initiatives Value Chain Packages, and Containers Undertaken by Lion ・Promoting Human Resource Development ▶ p32-33 /Revitalization Programs ・Establishing Good Working Environments Highlight 02 p24-25, p34 Opportunities ・Promoting Employees’ Health Management ▶ p35 CSR Material Issues ・Establishing a Group-wide CSR Management Structure ▶ p12-13 ・Formulating and Disseminating Human Rights Policy, Ensuring Human Rights Due Diligence＊ ▶ p31 ・Enhancing Group-wide Management of Chemical Substances, Preventing Pollution ▶ p37-38 ・Promoting CSR Procurement ▶ p42-43 Risks ・Promoting Information Security ▶ p48 ・Enhancing Group-wide Quality Assurance System ▶ p44-46 ・Enhancing Group-wide Occupational Health and Safety Management System ▶ p35 Business Partners Employees Key Stakeholders ＊Steps that an organization should take in order to recognize, prevent and address negative influences on human rights. 12 Lion CSR Report 2017 Since its foundation, Lion has promoted a culture of cleanliness by Lion's CSR 2016 Highlight 01 developing useful products and helping to foster good habits. We continue to be actively engaged in provision of products and educaLion Group Educational tional activities to enhance people’s awareness for cleanliness. An example of this is the KireiKirei hand soap which was develActivities for Hygiene oped after a series of mass outbreaks of food poisoning caused by Organizational Governance Care Habits in Japan and “O157” in 1996 in Japan. KireiKirei is now also sold in South Korea, Singapore, Thailand, Hong Kong, and China. In each country, Lion is Overseas not only offering products but also putting effort into educating people on the importance of hand washing. 2016 Highlight 02 In order to establish a sustainable business, we aim to create a comPromoting Work-Life Balance by pany environment in which each employee can work without anxiHuman Rights ety and achieve his/her full potential. Particularly, our focus is on Supporting Employees Raising diversity and work-life balance of employees, and we are consistently engaged in support activities so that employees can balance Children and Employees Providing work with nursing care and childcare. Nursing Care for Their Family Since its foundation, Lion has been offering products such as tooth2016 Highlight 03 Labor Practices pastes, toothbrushes, hand soaps, and laundry detergents, and we have been deeply engaged in using water through the “act of Full-Scale Operation of washing.” Because of this, we have put emphasis on water resource conservation activities such as water usage reduction in manufacturWaste Water Recycling ing plants, development of water-saving products, and education System at Chiba Plant for rainwater utilization. In 2015, we built a waste water recycling system at Chiba Plant to reduce water usage and it became fully operational in 2016. The Environment Use by Consumers Disposal by Consumers ・Providing Information Useful for Daily ・Offering Products and Information that Life and Promoting Educational Activities ▶ p47 Contribute to the Development of a ▶ p48 Sustainable Society Fair Operating Practices ・Engaging in Progressive Environmental Activities Highlight 03 p26-27, 36-41 ・Enhancing Social Contribution Programs Leading to Forming Healthy and Comfortable Living Habits Highlight 01 p18-23, 49-51 ・Promoting Risk Management, Embedding Compliance/Internal Control ▶ p28-30 Consumer Issues Community Involvement and Customers Shareholders and Investors Development Environment and Society Lion CSR Report 2017 13 Lion’s CSR Objectives of the Medium-Term Management Plan (V-2: 2015 to 2017) and Achievements in 2016 in Relation to CSR Material Issues For CSR material issues that we have identified, we conducted activities to achieve the 2017 medium-term objectives. In Japan, measures to promote diversity of employees, work-life balance and various kinds of training through e-learning were conducted, in addition to cross-department committee activities conducted every year. In overseas, taking into account laws, cultures, and customs which vary depending on countries and regions, activities have been promoted based on the situation of each group company. Core Subjects Ideal Vision CSR Material Issues 2017 Medium-term Objectives Domestic Disseminating the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior as a CSR policy Overseas Disseminating policies concerning CSR Establishing Groupwide CSR Management Structure Domestic Managing progress toward objectives Maintaining a Sound Overseas Setting objectives and managing progress Organizational Management System Governance Trusted by Society Domestic Promoting Risk Continuously operating Business Management Continuity Plan (BCP) based on multiphase projections Domestic Embedding Raising awareness of compliance Compliance/ Internal Control Systems Overseas Enhancing internal control systems Formulating and DissemDomestic inating Human Rights Disseminating the Lion Group Charter for Policy Corporate Behavior as a human rights policy Domestic Promoting self-assessment questionnaire Establishing a of CSR activities by suppliers and Framework for providing feedback on the results Human Rights Respecting Human Ensuring Human Rights Domestic Rights Due Diligence*1 Disseminating information regarding the hotline and strengthening the advice and whistleblowing framework Overseas Setting up and operating internal contacts for reporting and consultations *1 Steps that an organization should take in order to recognize, prevent, and address negative influences on human rights. 14 Lion CSR Report 2017 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The numbers in the column of material isLion's CSR sues in our table shown below are numbers of the SDGs which Lion is hoping to contribute to attaining through its business. These numbers have been specified* Organizational Governance based on Lion’s business strategy and the materiality of issues that operating companies have to deal with in each market. We will consider Lion’s objectives and KPI toward achievement of each SDG by taking into account our business direction. *Indicators currently developed by IAEG-SDGs (Inter-agency Expert Group on SDG Indicators) and indicators published in SDG Index & Dashboards were referenced. Cited from the website of the United Nations Information Centre Human Rights Page of Related Achievement from 2016 Information in CSR URL of Lion Web Page Report 2017 (Websites are all in Japanese) Implementing e-learning on the Lion Group Charter p30 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ for Corporate Behavior (Once a year) Posting CSR policy in the work place Labor Practices Distributing a handbook containing CSR policy to http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ employees Announcing progress through CSR Report and website p14-17 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/lion_csr/promotion/vision.php (Once a year) Announcing progress through CSR Report and website p14-17 The Environment http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/lion_csr/promotion/vision.php (Once a year) Confirming and reviewing BCP at Executive p29 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/risk/ Committee (Once a year ) Implementing the Compliance Awareness Survey Coverage was expanded to include part-timers as respondents Fair Operating Practices (Annually implemented, Dissemination rate in 2016 was 98%) p30 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Providing educational programs through e-learning with regard to compliance, sexual harassment, power harassment and insider trading ●Introducingthe internal control on financial reporting http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/ir/library/ar/2016/ and implementing the assessment Implementing e-learning on the Lion Group Charter p31 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/humanrights/duediligence/ Consumer Issues for Corporate Behavior (Once a year) Having suppliers self-check their CSR activities and feeding assessment results back to the suppliers (Once p42-43 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/procurement/ a year) Disseminating the Compliance Awareness Survey Community Involvement and (Annually implemented, Dissemination rate in 2016 p30 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ was 98%) Responding to and sorting out all cases Setting up and operating internal and external contacts for Development reporting, and an internal contact for consultations p30 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Disseminating information regarding the hotline through training on compliance Lion CSR Report 2017 15 Core Subjects Ideal Vision CSR Material Issues 2017 Medium-term Objectives Domestic Embedding measures for promoting PDCA through Promoting Human implementation of the target management system Global human resource development Resource Development, Domestic Revitalization Programs Enhancing the “Diverse Human Resource Promotion Programs” Implementing supporting measures for women to build their career Domestic Changing Awareness Promoting work-life balance with measures for of Employees Establishing Good building an environment, where employees can work through Raising Working Environments healthily and energetically Labor Practices Morale and Overseas Motivation Enhancing opportunities for talks between employees and management Domestic Promoting Employees’ Improving the environment to allow employees Health Management to work healthily and energetically Enhancing Group-wide Domestic Improving occupational safety and the safety of Occupational Health and Safety facilities based on the “Health, Safety and Disaster Management System Prevention Management System” Engaging in Progressive Domestic Overseas Environmental Activities Promoting “Eco Vision 2020” and managing Contributing to progress thereof the Development of a Sustainable Preventing Pollution Domestic The Environment Society as an Promoting pollution prevention Environmentally Advanced Company Enhancing Group-wide Domestic Management of Chemical Enhancing chemical substances management systems Substances Domestic Promoting Promoting CSR activity self-assessment questionnaires by CSR Activities Promoting CSR Procurement suppliers and providing feedback on the results Fair Operating throughout the Domestic Practices Value Chain Promoting Eco Vision 2020 and managing progress thereof Offering Products and Domestic Information that Contributes Promoting environmental educational activities to the Development of a for consumers through products Sustainable Society Providing Information Domestic Useful for Daily Life and Enhancing the provision of information that Promoting Educational contributes to healthy and comfortable life Activities according to different lifestyles and life stages Pursuing Customer Satisfaction by Creating Safe Domestic Consumer Issues and Trustworthy Enhancing the group-wide quality assurance system Products Enhancing Group-wide Quality Assurance System Overseas Reinforcing compliance with regulations in each country and enhancing responses to customers Domestic Promoting Information Promoting information security Security Measures Overseas Enhancing information security management systems Co-existing and CoDomestic Overseas prospering with Society Promoting educational activities for oral health Enhancing Social Promoting preventive dentistry (recommending selfand Communities / Contribution Programs Contributing to the care and professional care) and education for health Community Leading to Forming Healthy instructors and children Development of Involvement and Society in the Areas of and Comfortable Living Domestic Overseas Development Health, Comfort and Habits Promoting cleanliness :Promoting Educational Activities for the Environment Children’s Hand Washing and Gargling 16 Lion CSR Report 2017 Page of Related Achievement from 2016 Information in CSR URL of Lion Web Page Report 2017 (Websites are all in Japanese) Promoting the Target Management System to enhance PDCA activities toward Lion's CSR attaining objectives and providing trainings thereon p32 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/development/ Developing human resources with an aptitude for marketing Engaging in the activities to achieve the target based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Establishing a special subsidiary Lion Tomoni Co., Ltd. to promote p33 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/various/ employment of people with disabilities Organizational Governance Enhancing work-life balance to support employees raising children and p24-25, employees providing nursing care for their family http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ Promoting the Next Generation Support Act Phase 5 Action Plan 34 Periodically holding labor-management meetings p32 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/relations/ Providing training on health management at every level of employee training Conducting health checkups on a regular basis (Once a year) Enhancing provision of information on oral health care through the p35 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/health/ e-learning system Human Rights Introducing a saliva test system to measure oral cleanliness in health checkups Organizing Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention Meeting to promote p35 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/prevention/ PDCA for safety activities (Twice a year) Managing the progress of the Environmental Objective of Eco Vision p26-27, 2020 towards its targets for 2017 36-41, http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecovision2020/ Full-scale operation of a waste water recycling system at Chiba Plant 43 Labor Practices Thoroughly managing emissions and waste water in accordance with statutory and voluntary criteria p37 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ River water monitoring both by industrial groups and by Lion Establishing and operating a management system for information on p37-38 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ chemical substances Having suppliers self-check their CSR activities and feeding assessment p42-43 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/procurement/ results back to the suppliers (Once a year) The Environment Holding the Environmental Action Promotion Committee to manage p36-37, http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecovision2020/ environmental progress (Twice a year) Continuing purchase of RSPO certified palm oil derivative 43 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/guide/ Attaching Environmental Labels to eco products and providing consumers http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/communication/ with information p48 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/2016-p24-25.pdf Promoting the Toothbrush Recycling Program Fair Operating Practices Creation, Accumulation, and Provision of Living Information by Meisters of Daily Life Proceeding with Oral Care Solution Business (ORALYSIS, ORALCOM) Publication of information through Lidea, a website for lifestyle information, p47 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/communication/ and communicating to consumers by making good use of Lion’s accumulated information Promoting PDCA for quality assurance activities conducted by the CS/PL Committee (Twice a year) p28, Establishing and operating a management system for information on chemical substances 30,37-38, http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/quality/ Providing education on Fundamental Quality Assurance through e-learning 44-46 Enhancing the management structure of advertising Consumer Issues Enhancing customer support by the Customer Support Center and the Marketing Department http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/opinion/ Enhance abilities to comply with laws and regulations of each country Providing training through e-learning with regard to information security, risks p48 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/risk/ of social media, and information management system Implementing various measures to prevent leak of personal and confidential p48 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/risk/ Community Involvement and information Holding the Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children in Asian countries and regions Implementing tooth brushing educational activities in areas near our business http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ facilities p50 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/overseas/ Implementing tooth brushing educational activities at kindergartens and Development preschools Implementing educational activities for hand washing and gargling in various countries in Asia p18-23, http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/washing/ Implementing hand washing educational activities in areas near our business facilities 51 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/overseas/ Implementing hand washing educational activities at kindergartens and preschools Lion CSR Report 2017 17 light 01 2016 High Lion Group Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits in Japan and Overseas Aiming at developing a culture of cleanliness in society Since its foundation, Lion has developed useful products detergent that could be used to wash vegetables and fruits, and helped foster healthy habits to promote a culture of and thus played an important role in eliminating parasites. cleanliness in society. One of our challenges around the Today, we continue to contribute to the development of 1890s was to propose the idea that clothes should be a culture of cleanliness in society through products that rewashed with soap when people were washing their clothes spond to social issues and conduct educational activities that only with water. “Lion Laundry Soap” that we have help foster healthy habits. launched, successfully promoted people to use soap to wash away the dirt that could not be cleaned with only water. This later became a new habit within the society. Another challenge was the eradication of parasite eggs Lipon F attached to vegetables. In the early 1950s, when people had (Earned the top recomlow awareness of hygiene in the aftermath of World War II, mendation of the Jahealth problems caused by parasites were rampant in Japan. Plant-Derived Lion Laundry Soap pan Food Hygiene As(Japan’s first plant-derived soap) sociation) To help solve this social issue, Lion developed “Lipon F,” a Birth of “KireiKirei” “KireiKirei,” Lion’s hand washing soap, was born in 1997. ing habit. This habit cannot be easily established through The product was developed after a series of mass outstrict discipline and with force, and it is important that breaks of food poisoning in Japan, caused by pathogenic children find fun in hand washing, and do it voluntarily. E. coli bacteria O157 that became a big social issue in We believe that everyday hand washing should be made 1996. We determined to undertake a social mission to esinto a habit that all of the family can enjoy, and that is tablish a “habit of hand washing” to protect children the story behind the launch of “KireiKirei” hand soap. from bacteria and viruses. Currently, we provide various products for cleanliness For children to form a habit of regular hand washing, it besides hand soaps under the “KireiKirei” brand, such as is necessary that the whole family adopt the hand washgargles and hand sanitizers. “KireiKirei” brand product lineup Foaming Medicated Liquid Hand Wet wipes Foaming Hand Soap Hand Soap for Gargle Hand Soap Sanitizer the Kitchen Since its launch, “KireiKirei” hand soap has always played an important role in improving 〈〈Domestic market (million yen) people’s awareness for cleanliness. The domestic hand soap market* expanded to approxivalue of hand soap〉 〉 mately 30,900 million yen in 2015 from 4,600 million yen in 1995 (the year before the out35,000 break of O157) along with growing awareness of cleanliness in society. 30,000 It became popular not only at home, but also in schools, offices, and restaurants, and KireiKirei has been the number-one hand soap brand in the Japanese market since 2000. 25,000 It is now also sold in various countries and regions in Asia. 20,000 30,899 *Yearbook of Chemical Industry Statistics Shipment value 15,000 10,000 5,000 4,561 0 1995 2015 18 Lion CSR Report 2017 Aiming to establish a habit of hand washing across countries and regions in Asia Lion's CSR Overseas marketing of “KireiKirei” hand soap started in 2005 and Lion Group is actively addressing hand washing educational currently the product is sold in South Korea, Singapore, Thailand, activities for children specifically by focusing on forming a hand Hong Kong, and China, in addition to Japan. In each country, we not washing habit from an early age. We introduce some of the eduonly provide the products but also promote hand washing educacational activities conducted in each country in this Highlight. tional activities to improve people’s awareness of cleanliness. Organizational Governance 〈 〈 “KireiKirei” hand soap is sold across Asia 〉 〉 Human Rights South Korea Labor Practices China The Environment Fair Operating Practices Japan Thailand Consumer Issues Community Involvement and Hong Kong Singapore Development Lion CSR Report 2017 19 Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits in Thailand Hand Washing Educational Activities for Children in a School near Our Production Plant Lion Corporation Thailand (LCT) provides hand washing educaand that washing hands with just water or washing hands poortion for schoolchildren near Sriracha plant. ly cannot get rid of dirt properly, and are then taught correct In the hand washing lectures, children first rub a special washing techniques. cream on their hands, which glows under a black light. Then, Since most of the students who participated in the hand they are asked to wash their hands and check under the black washing lecture did not have the habit of washing their hands light how well the cream came off. From this exercise, children before lunch, LCT will continue to contribute to the establishare able to understand the hard-to-wash parts of their hands ment of hygienic habits among students. Checking the dirt on hands under a black light Reviewing the hard-to-wash parts after checking under a black light Voice from employees of Thai Lion (Left) Pornnapa Wimonrat Special Project Manager (Right) Natthasinee Suksawang Product Manager We have taught students near our plant how to brush their teeth correctly since 2013. As we found that most of the students did not wash their hands before lunch, we also started hand washing instructions. Hand washing, just as tooth brushing, is an easy and effective way to prevent diseases. We will continue this combination of tooth brushing and hand washing activity with the aim of making more students develop the habits of tooth brushing and hand washing. Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits in Singapore KireiKirei Celebrates World Hand Hygiene Day In conjunction with World Hand Hygiene Day,* Lion Corporation Singapore educated preschool children on the importance of good hand hygiene practices using KireiKirei Anti-bacterial Foaming Hand Soap product of Lion Corporation Singapore. Through art and activities, the children learned about the importance of good hygiene and practiced correct hand washing techniques with the KireiKirei brand ambassador. The children also learned that removing bad bacteria and retaining the good ones could keep them healthy through dance and games. ＊An event coordinated by the World Health Organization to promote hygiene care awareness and celebrated annually on May 5. The KireiKirei brand ambassador (center) with children Voice from employee of Singapore Lion Tan Yi Ling Product Manager Seeing children and their caregivers participate actively to learn about the importance of good hygiene makes me happy as we are able to contribute to helping them instill good habits to keep bacteria away and lead a healthy lifestyle. 20 Lion CSR Report 2017 Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits in South Korea Lion's CSR “Ai! Kekute” Hand Washing Class at Kindergartens Since 2016, to teach children ways to protect their own health, CJ Lion has conducted educational activities on Organizational Governance hand washing using Ai!Kekute, a hand soap that CJ Lion sells in South Korea. (“Ai! Kekute“ means “Oh! Clean!“ in Korean) The most critical period in hygiene care habit establishment is childhood. CJ Lion conducts the “Ai!Kekute“ hand washing class, begun in 2016, for kindergarteners ages 4 to 6 in Seoul and nearby cities. In the class, a bubbly foam-shaped mascot character and a facilitator capture the children’s attention and encourage their active participation. Through hand washing songs and exercises, children learn that hand washing is not a boring thing, but Human Rights actually fun. Hand washing check sheets and stickers are distributed to every participant after the class, with the aim of encouraging correct hand washing back at home. Each time a child washes his or her hands correctly, a sticker will be put on “Ai! Kekute“ hand washing class the sheet by a supervising adult. The sheets are then collected at the kindergarten for the teacher to check if hand washing habits have been established properly. In 2016, CJ Lion conducted the “Ai!Kekute“ hand washLabor Practices ing classes at 160 kindergartens and 18,789 children participated. Hand Washing and Gargling Class in Partnership with a Retail Store In partnership with HomePlus, a retail store in South Korea, CJ Lion promotes activities for customers that enThe Environment hance healthy habits for infectious disease prevention. CJ Lion conducts hand washing and gargling classes for children and their parents at the HomePlus Cultural Center. The classes are conducted during the summer and winter vacation periods, when outbreaks of infectious diseases such as influenza and norovirus most often occur. In 2016, CJ Lion conducted hand washing and gargling classes 25 times at the HomePlus Cultural Center, with 15 Fair Operating Practices to 20 child-parent pairs joining each time. In total, about Hand washing and gargling class 1,000 people took part in the class. Voice from employee of CJ Lion Minji Lee Brand Manager, Personal Category Team Consumer Issues In South Korea, more and more people are concerned about personal hygiene and health. Underpinned by the brand philosophy of “Ai! Kekute,“ “To form a habit of hand washing during childhood,“ we have conducted various social contribution activities including “Educational Program on Hand Washing and Hygiene for Children in Kindergarten.“ In this program, a bubbly foam-shaped mascot character and a recreation instructor visit kindergartens and perform songs and exercises to promote Community Involvement and hand washing. As every child can participate in the lively activities, the program is very popular. We will continue to promote various educational activities to support the health and comfortable lives of consumers, with a sense of mission that “Ai! Development Kekute“ is the number-one hand soap brand in South Korea. Lion CSR Report 2017 21 Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits in China Conducting Hand Washing Activities at Kindergartens in Shanghai Since 2016, Lion Qingdao has supported hand washing acMoreover, Lion Qingdao supports the hand washing tivities aimed at children from ages three to six in kinderclasses conducted in kindergartens. At the hand washing gartens in Shanghai. classes, children are taught the importance of hand washIn Shanghai, to prevent the spread of infectious diseasing by their teacher, and every child receives a KireiKirei es, children are encouraged to wash their hands before Health Diary, which contains instructions on correct hand entering the kindergarten building. Lion Qingdao prowashing techniques and timings. vides KireiKirei hand soaps (products sold by Lion QingdIn 2016, the KireiKirei Health Diary was distributed to ao) to kindergartens for children to use at the hand washapproximately 30,000 children in 104 kindergartens. ing sink. Children washing their hands Children holding the KireiKirei Health Diary Setting up the “Moving Hand Wash Sink” in Big Parks in Shanghai In Shanghai, spring and autumn are the most popular seasons Hand Wash Sink,” people are taught how to wash their hands to spend time outdoors, and many people gather at parks. correctly, and the KireiKirei Health Diary, which instructs corHowever, there are not many places for them to wash their rect hand washing techniques and timings, is distributed to all hands before eating and drinking in parks. In May, October participants. In 2016, about 30,000 people used the “Moving and November 2016, Lion Qingdao established the “Moving Hand Wash Sink.” Hand Wash Sink” in big parks in Shanghai. At the “Moving People using the Moving Hand Wash Sink Voice from employee of Lion Qingdao Maggie Ma Brand Manager, Marketing Department Chinese consumers, especially the young mothers, have become much more aware of hygiene habits in the last years. They realize that hand washing is not only a good habit to keep bacteria and viruses away but also an elegant part of their life. It is our pleasure to be KireiKirei representatives, as we provide high quality products and healthier lifestyle. We are happy to see more and more consumers become fond of KireiKirei products and form a habit of good hygiene together with us. 22 Lion CSR Report 2017 Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits in Japan Lion's CSR Voluntary Hand Washing Educational Activities by Lion Employees Lion conducts hand washing educational activities in kinThe target is that all of Lion's employees participate in dergartens and preschools across Japan. the activity by 2050. Organizational Governance Lion employees voluntarily participate in the activities During 2016, we visited 43 facilities across Japan and and teach children the importance of hand washing and provided hand washing education to 6,687 children. The correct hand washing steps through programs such as accumulated number of employees who have participated “KireiKirei Picture-Story Show” and “Hand Washing Workout.” totals 571 since 2012 and the participation rate is 22%. Support of reconstruction ◆ ◆ Employee training ◆ work from earthquake disaster ◆ Human Rights Labor Practices As a part of our corporate training programs, young employees conduct We promote hand washing educational activities in kindergartens and prehand washing educational activities. Every year, around 60 to 70 employees schools in Ishinomaki City in Miyagi Prefecture, an area closely connected to are divided into teams, and teach children in kindergartens and preschools our founder, as a part of Lion’s initiatives to support the reconstruction all over Japan the importance of hand washing. work after the Great East Japan Earthquake. ◆ Working with local governments ◆ ◆ Working with business partners ◆ (Activities conducted at local offices) The Environment Fair Operating Practices We work together with our business partners across Japan in hand washLion Chemical Co., Ltd.'s Oleochemical site located in Sakaide City, Kagawa ing educational activities. Our joint effort with SugiyamaDrugs Co. Ltd. in Prefecture, is the production base of “KireiKirei” hand soap. In 2014, Nagoya-City is one of those examples. Sakaide City, Lion Chemical, and Lion jointly launched “KireiKirei City – Sakaide” Project, aiming to embed and establish hygiene care habits among the citizens of Sakaide. Consumer Issues Voice from employee working with a business partner (in Nagoya) Akinori Hosaka, Health and Home Care Products Sales Division, Tokai Hokuriku Sales Branch Since 2015, we have conducted hand washing educational activities jointly with SugiyamaDrugs Co. Ltd. in kindergartens and preschools near their stores, teachCommunity Involvement and ing children the importance of hand washing and correct hand washing steps. The stores themselves are running educational programs to help children develop a hand washing habit. Working with SugiyamaDrugs, a retail rooted in the region, Members of SugiyamaDrugs’ hand washwe aim to promote correct hand washing habit among children in the area and to ing promotion team improve people’s awareness of cleanliness. Development (Mr. Hosaka is the second from right at the bottom) Lion CSR Report 2017 23 light 02 2016 High Promoting Work-Life Balance by Supporting Employees Raising Children and Employees Providing Nursing Care for Their Family The working environment Lion aims to create To build a sustainable company, we aim to create a working environment in which each employee works with a sense of well-being to achieve his/her full potential. Especially, our focus is on the diversity and work-life balance of employees. In this Highlight, we introduce our programs promoting work-life balance by supporting employees raising children and employees providing nursing care for their family members. Supporting employees to maintain a proper balance between work and nursing care The coming age of nursing care (Number of 〈 〈 [Figure 1] Changes in the number of people in As the aging of society in Japan is rapidly progressing, the millions) people requiring nursing care in Japan 〉 〉 number of people who require nursing care is increasing steadily [Figure 1]. According to a forecast, approximately 7 one in three Japanese people will become a senior citizen 6 (65 years old and over) by 2025* and Japan will enter an 5 age when many people will be involved in nursing care in 4 some form or other. At Lion too, it is predicted that em6.058 ployees around the age of 50 will highly likely be involved 3 5.306 5.611 5.838 million in nursing care of their family members in the near fu2 4.401 ture. Thus, it is obvious that the company must establish a 2.983 1 support system and create a proper working environment to help its employees maintain the balance between work 0 2001 2006 2011 2012 2013 2014 and nursing care. Source: Status Report on Long-term Care ＊ Source: Statistics Topics No. 72, Statistics Bureau, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Insurance Projects (Annual Report) FY 2014 (Japanese), Communications Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Programs to help maintain a balance between work and nursing care At Lion, we have introduced various programs to help emof the programs in the following three steps to create a ployees maintain a proper balance between work and working environment in which each employee can devote nursing care for their family, following the enactment of time for work without anxiety. related legislation. In 2016, we embarked on enhancement January 2016 July 2016 and after January 2017 System Internal Enhancing Step1 establishment Step2 communications/ Step3 the System Laying the groundwork Working arrangement: ● Held seminars toward employees on Working arrangement: Short Hours Flextime System (SF) support programs to maintain a balance Short Hours Flextime System (SF) Shorter working hour is combined with flex-time (before between work and nursing care for the Applicable to the entire period revision: fixed shorter working hour system) family required for nursing care Nursing care leave: ● Developed a website to support employees maintain a balance between Nursing care leave: Up to 365 days which can be taken separately in combination with SF system (before revision: up to 93 days which can be taken work and nursing care Up to 365 days can be taken separately only at once in combination with fixed shorter working hour system) from the SF system ● Posted a handbook to support Short-term nursing care leave: employees maintain a balance between work and nursing care on the company Up to 5 days per family member who requires nursing care intranet which can be taken at a half day as minimum unit (before revision: only from one day as minimum unit of acquisition) In January 2016, we introduced the new Short Hours FlexSF’s upper limit of 365 days in combination of nursing care time System as Step 1, replacing the existing shorter workleave, and allowing employees to apply for SF as long as ing hour system in which employees were required to fix nursing care is required. their working hours. With the new system, employees can We will continue to improve our long-term nursing care combine the shorter-work hours with flex-time, allowing support systems to allow employees to work free from them to control their work hours more flexibly. anxiety and maintain a proper work-life balance. We enhanced our systems in Step 3 (2017), eliminating 24 Lion CSR Report 2017 Supporting employees to maintain a proper balance between work and childcare Returning to work after maternity leave 〈 〈 [Figure 2] Turnover rate of Lion's CSR female employees after childbirth Recently, the Japanese government has been pushing ahead with laws (2015)〉〉 and programs to promote women’s empowerment, aiming to build a gender-free society in which men and women participate equally in social acContinue working (with childcare leave) tivities. In fact, 33.9% of women left their jobs after giving birth, demonContinue working (without childcare leave) strating the fact that striking a balance between work and childcare is still Left work after childbirth a huge challenge for Japanese society [Figure 2]. Unemployed before and after pregnancy Organizational Governance At Lion, we believe that the empowerment of female employees is esUnknown sential to sustainable growth of the company, and we implement various programs to support female employees, who return from maternity/child4.2 % care leave, to maintain a healthy balance between work and childcare so Source: The 15th that they can continue to work actively for a long time. Japanese National Fertility Survey, In this section, we introduce our new activities supporting employees National Institute of raising children to help them establish a proper work-life balance. 28.3% Population and Social 23.6 % Security Research Programs to support maintain a proper balance The data shows the between work and childcare Left work after childbirth 10.0 % changes in job status of women who gave birth to their first child between Back-to-Work Seminar 33.9 % Human Rights 2010 and 2014. We hold the “Back-to-Work Seminar” twice a year, tailored for employees who are on childcare leave, with an aim to lessen their anxiety about catching up with work and make them feel positive before returning to their workplaces. The seminar includes a lecture on the company’s latest updates, a meeting with colleagues who have already returned to work, and a group session to discuss how to strike a proper balance between work and childcare. We believe the seminar is successful in giving confidence to employees before returning back Labor Practices to work. A website to support employees returning to work and raising children In 2016, we launched the “website to support employees returning to A scene from the Back-to-Work Seminar work and raising children” for employees on childcare leave. It provides various childcare information catering to each employee, and the latest company updates. Through the website, the users receive the following benefits: The Environment ◎ Individual consultation with an expert via phone call/e-mail to discuss the stress and worries related to childcare ◎ Reference to well-prepared FAQs to get answers for childcare questions ◎ Updates from the company on business and back-to-work The FAQ page from the website to support employees preparation returning to work and raising children These are all helpful for employees’ childcare and back-to-work planning. In addition, employees can acquire various business skills, including PowerPoint and Excel techniques, through self-development courses offered on the website, Fair Operating Practices and exchange information with other employees on childcare leave using the attached SNS function. We have successfully developed a better working environment and enhanced the childcare support system through a variety of systems that enable employees to maintain a proper balance between work and childcare. As a result, 100% of our employees have returned back to work after childbirth. We will continue to enhance our programs to provide more opportunities to our female employees. Voice from employee who took childcare leave Airi Tomida, Sales Development Department I was on maternity leave and childcare leave for a year from April 2016. It was the first time for Consumer Issues me to be away from the office for such a long period, and I had mixed feelings of excitement of having a new baby and concerns about catching up with my colleagues and work. The “website to support employees returning to work and raising children” encouraged me a lot. It gave me opportunities to exchange information and share childcare stresses with colleagues, who were also on childcare leave or had returned to work. A 24-hour expert consultation system was always available, which gave me peace of mind. The latest company updates periodically posted by the Personnel Department made me feel refreshed Community Involvement and and whenever I read it, I always found myself in work mode. I participated in the Back-to-Work Seminar with my child. Listening to the stories from colleagues who had already returned to work, making small efforts every day to meet new challenges, I became confident about returning to work and achieving both work and childcare. I know it will become very busy after returning to work, but I am prepared to Development make my own small efforts every day to enjoy both work and childcare even more. [Promoting a work-life balance] (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ Lion CSR Report 2017 25 light 03 2016 High Full-Scale Operation of Waste Water Recycling System at Chiba Plant Lion and water resource Since its foundation, Lion has been offering products such put a special focus on water resource conservation activias toothpastes, toothbrushes, hand soaps, and laundry deties such as development of water-saving products, water tergents, thus demonstrating our deep relationship with usage reduction in production facilities, and promoting water through the act of “cleaning.” Because of this, we rainwater utilization. Lion’s water resource conservation activities 1. Product 3. Social development 2. Production activities Development of Reduction in water usage in Communicating the water-saving products Lion’s plants in Japan importance of water internally and externally Examples of water-saving products Changes in water usage of Education for rainwater utilization Lion's plants in Japan Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest Absolute quantity Water use per unit total revenue （Thousand m ） 3 3 (Thousand m /million yen） Absolute quantity Water use per unit total revenue 2,000 0.008 49% reduction Top Super NANOX CHARMY Magica 1,830 from year 2000 in absolute quantity Rinse only once Easily removes grease 0.00616 and water use per unit total revenue 0.006 Forest maintenance activities 1,500 0.00476 by employees 0.00411 Lion Forest in Yamanashi 1,337 0.004 0.00340 1,173 0.00312 1,000 969 926 0.002 LOOK Bath LOOK Bath Antimold Fogger Cleaner Keeps your bathroom clean by Quick rinse, the foam preventing the growth of mold from the detergent washes off quickly 0 0 2000 2010 2014 2015 2016 （Year） Related information p51 URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/resources/ (the above website is in Japanese) Reduction of plant’s water usage -Chiba Plant Chiba Plant started its operation in 1982 as a plant specialized 〈〈 [Figure 1] Former waste water processing facilities〉 〉 in the production of phosphorus-free detergents in consideration of the water usage. As the plant is the most water-con❶● Water for suming production facility of Lion, it aims to be a plant that is production processes advanced in water resource conservation and has been workCooling water, Conventional ing on the issue. boilers, etc. waste water treatment Discharge Water used in the Chiba Plant is industrial water originating facility from river water. We process the water internally to be used Purifying ❷● Industrial Water for for three different purposes: ❶ for production processes, ❷ for water treatment daily life daily life use, ❸ for products. facility use Tap water, Normally, waste water from production processes and daily toilets, etc. life use is purified to a habitable level for fish such as goldfish or Japanese killifish by waste water treatment facilities, and then discharged to rivers and seas. However, at Lion, we went ❸● one step further to introduce a waste water recycling system in Water for Shipment products which waste water from production process is purified to be reused for production processes again. 26 Lion CSR Report 2017 Full-scale operation of waste water recycling system Lion's CSR Aiming to reduce water usage, a new waste water recyIn addition, new waste water treatment facility (Figure cling system became operational at Chiba Plant in Decem2-❷) was introduced for better purification of daily life ber 2015. The system was put into full-scale operation in waste water and discharge from the purifying treatment 2016. facilities. It has reduced the amount of nitrogen in the The key feature of the system is the new waste water waste water, which causes eutrophication of the sea. recycling facility (Figure 2-❶). The new recycling facility Thanks to the introduction of the new system, water Organizational Governance enables the recycling of industrial waste water generated usage at Chiba Plant in 2016 was 122,000m3 less than that from production processes, which used to be discharged before its introduction in 2013. to rivers and seas. 〈 〈 [Figure 2] New waste water recycling system 〉 〉 Water for Waste water production process pre-processing facility Former waste Recycling system water treatment ❶ New waste water facility Human Rights Purifying recycling facility Industrial treatment water facility ❷ Water New waste water Discharge for daily life use treatment facility Water for Shipment products New waste water recycling facility Labor Practices New Technology Encouragement Award from the Japan Society on Water Environment (JSWE) In June 2017, the development of the new waste water recycling system at Chiba Plant was recognized as a winner of the JSWE New Technology Encouragement Award from the Japan Society on Water Environment, the largest academic society for water-environment conservation in Japan. The award is given to individuals and groups, who have contributed to society through outstanding achievements in the field of water environment technology. [The JSWE New Technology Encouragement Award] (Japanese) URL https://www.jswe.or.jp/awards/gijutsu/index.html The Environment Other Water Resource Conservation Activities in the Chiba Plant Building a biotope Rainwater utilization To protect the natural water environment and bioRainwater is collected in a rainwadiversity, employees in the Chiba Plant have created ter tank installed within the plant a biotope (named LEO TOPE) by hand within its premises and used for various purFair Operating Practices premises in October 2011. Employees look after the poses, including for the carp pond. biotope themselves such as by planting rice and This helps to reduce the overall maintaining an ideal environment for fireflies. This water usage in the plant and comhas helped to enhance employees’ environmental municate towards visitors to the awareness and promote environmental communicaLEO TOPE plant on the importance of water. tion in the local community. Our continuous efforts in environment conservation activities at Chiba Plant, including the introduction of the waste water recycling facilities, were highly recognized from outside the company and the plant won the JCIA Responsible Care (RC) Award by the Japan Chemical Industry Association in May 2017. Consumer Issues Voice from employee Waste water recycling facility Ryusuke Mitomi Chiba plant, Engineering Group I was in charge of the design and building of the facility in this project. Our challenge was to consider how we can collect and treat as much waste waCommunity Involvement and ter as possible from the production process and reuse it again for the production process. The system was completed by the united efforts of the staff from the plant, R&D, and HQ, and specialists from the water treatment company. The system is currently in good shape, and we will continue to produce various products with reduced water usage to achieve the dual goals of water resource conservation and stable production. Ryusuke Mitomi Operators of Development waste water recycling facility Lion CSR Report 2017 27 Ideal Vision Maintaining a Sound ization al Management System that is a n O r g Gover nance Continuously Trusted by Society Basic Approach Lion’s top priorities for corporate governance are to ensure compliance. By strengthening and improving increase management transparency, improve the its corporate governance system, Lion aims to efficiency of supervision and decision making, and enhance its corporate value. Corporate Governance System Approach to enhancing functions to audit and supervise management At Lion, supervision of management is governed by an transparency and to enhance corporate governance. Audit and Supervisory Board system. For the Board of DiCore members of each committee are three external directors to focus on management decision making and surectors and two external corporate auditors, who are all pervision, in March 2004, Lion has implemented the Execqualified as independent directors. Regular meetings utive Officer System and transferred the business (scheduled every month) are held between the Repreexecution function of Board of Directors to the Executive sentative Director and all external directors to exchange Committee. information in order to enhance supervision and moniThe membership of the Board of Directors was retoring of management. duced (Currently 9, was 19 before the implement of the In addition, the Management Evaluation Committee Executive Officer System) to ensure more substantial (current Advisory Committee) was set up in October 2003 discussions and faster decision making. The Nomination to ensure that the opinions and advice of outside experts Advisory Committee and the Compensation Advisory are reflected in management. Committee were established to ensure management ■ Corporate Governance System (as of April 1, 2017) Shareholder Meeting Consultation Auditing Monitoring Response Accounting auditors Consultation Auditing Opinions Reporting Response and advice on legal compliance Auditing Advice Reporting Delegation Reporting Proposals Senior Executive Reporting Committee Basic policies for mediumto long-term management plans and other major corporate strategies ［Report on Corporate Governance］(Japanese) URL Auditing ＊CS/PL Committee CS: Customer Satisfaction PL: Product Liability Cross-departmental committee Corporate Ethics Committee to promote quality assurance Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior; Behavioral Guidelines activities. 28 Lion CSR Report 2017 Promotion of Risk Management Improving systems to respond to various risks in business Lion's CSR In order to continue providing our customers with safe ■ Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and reliable products, we have appointed a Director ReLion is pushing ahead with the establishment of its own sponsible for Risk Management who exhaustively controls systems to minimize damages and to continue business so and supervises the risk of the whole Lion Group. Particuas to provide products to customers even in cases where a larly for the risk management of the environment, qualiOrganizational Governance large earthquake, spread of infectious disease (pandemty assurance, and accidents and disasters, each committee ic), or other contingencies occur. discusses countermeasures in advance and the Executive We set up a task force according to the “Manual on Committee deliberates if necessary. Each plant is certified countermeasures for seismic disasters” in cases where with ISO14001 and eagerly works on quality manageseismic disasters occur, and the “Manual on countermeament and environmental protection. In cases where physsures against novel influenza and other infectious diseasical emergencies such as natural disasters and accidents es” in cases where a pandemic due to novel influenza viarise, in accordance with the Emergency Response Sysruses or other infectious diseases are expected to occur, so tem, we report the relevant facts to the president and as to respond to such contingencies. Whether BCP should corporate auditors, among others, and report how the be implemented or not is determined depending on the situation is being handled to the Executive Committee Human Rights size of the disaster and the degree of the damages. If the and the Board of Directors. BCP is implemented, we would give first priority to the Of many different risks that can occur in the course of our supply of consumer products among our businesses. business operation, the five points below have been disFor risks that may have a material impact on our busiclosed in the Company’s Securities Report* as key areas that ness, we update the countermeasures and report to the can have major influence on the judgment of our investors. Executive Committee annually. 1.Product quality evaluation 2.Fluctuation in raw materials costs 3.Fluctuation in foreign exchange rate Labor Practices 4.Major lawsuits, etc. 5.Natural disasters (e.g. earthquakes) Internal Control Systems Enhancing systems to audit the appropriateness of operations Systems have been put in place to ensure the appropriateness of the Lion Group’s operations in accordance with ■ Internal Audits The Environment The Auditing Office, which reports directly to the presiJapan’s Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcedent, implements audits of various business units in terms ment of the Companies Act. of their legality, validity, efficiency, and risk management With regard to systems for evaluating and auditing inin order to establish a foundation for healthy business ternal control over financial reporting as prescribed in Jaactivities. pan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, we have Audit results and improvement status are reported to been establishing controls at the company-wide and busithe president. The results at the corporate level are sumness-process levels. Fair Operating Practices marized and reported to the Executive Committee twice a Evaluations of internal control effectiveness are carried year for PDCA management of audit work, and for sharout by the Auditing Office, which reports findings to the ing of information with the business execution departpresident and corporate auditors, as well as to the Board ments. of Directors on a regular basis. As a result of the evaluation, we have determined that [Securities Report] (Japanese) Lion’s internal control over financial reporting in 2016 URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/ir/library/yuhou/ was effective, and submitted the Internal Control Report to the Prime Minister together with the Securities Report in March 2017. Consumer Issues UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact (UNGC), in which Lion has participated since 2009, is a voluntary initiative Community Involvement and of companies and organizations aiming to realize ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. Lion is also a member of the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), and participates in the subcommittee activities on a regular basis in order to promote the CSR activities of the member companies. Development ［UN Global Compact］ URL https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ ［Global Compact Network Japan］(Japanese) URL http://ungcjn.org/ Lion CSR Report 2017 29 Organizational Governance Embedding Compliance Efforts for legal compliance and enhancement of a sense of ethics The Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by the Director ■ The System of AL Heart Hotline Responsible for Corporate Ethics, proactively works to Consulter/Informer foster compliance awareness within the Lion Group. The (employees of the Lion Group, temporary staff, basis for compliance is the “Lion Group Charter for Coror external business partners) porate Behavior*1.” This is distributed in pamphlet form Consultations Feedback Consultations and Report and Feedback to all employees working for the Lion Group and is pubSeeking solutions/Resolving Problems Notifications contents of Notifications consultation/ licly available via Lion’s website. According to an annual notification Internal Contact program, e-learning and other educations are periodical(general manager specialized External contact (lawyer) ly provided. in corporate ethics) In 2016, in addition to going through and committing Report results of Reporting Instruction investigation and to the“Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior,” our countermeasures e-learning program provided further training regarding Director Responsible fundamental quality assurance, the basics of labor manfor Corporate Ethics Report as Board of Directors agement, risks relevant to social media, information secuneeded rity, our information management system, harassment in Corporate Ethics the workplace, and basic knowledge on insider trading. Committee ■ Compliance Awareness Survey*2 Set up as needed The Ethics Evaluation Committee All Lion Group employees are asked annually to complete (consisting of external experts) a compliance awareness survey. In 2016, the survey was conducted for the thirteenth time. The findings are reported to management and feedback is provided to individual divisions. This contributes to the maintenance and ■ AL Heart Hotline Consultations and strengthening of the compliance systems. Notifications (2016) From 2016, the pool of respondents was expanded to Power harassment behaviors 3 c ases include part-timers. The survey (about a 98% response rate from 4,539 employees) solicited opinions on a range Personnel/labor management issues 9 c ases of issues including problems with work environments. Other 4 c ases ■ Raising Awareness of the Hotline To ensure full communication with temporary staff and all our employees, an internal and external reporting system, the AL (All Lion) Heart Hotline, has been set up by ■ Percentage of Employees Who Received Survey Feedback the company. 0 20 40 60 80 100（％） In 2016, there were sixteen instances of consultation or reports but no instances of grave misconduct were found 2012 90.5 ％ 9.2 ％ 0.3 ％ and all the cases were appropriately addressed and resolved. 2013 91.6％ 8.1％ 0.3 ％ ［AL Heart Hotline］(Japanese) 2014 93.9％ 5.9％ 0.1 ％ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/compliance/index.php 2015 94.7％ 5.1％ 0.2％ Hotline system at CJ Lion (South Korea) 2016 95.7％ 4.1％ 0.2％ At CJ Lion (South Korea), a hotline system available to employees (in(year) cluding part-time and contract employees) and outside stakeholders has been in operation since 2004. Feedback Not No response received received A consulter can report details under their real name or anonymously, and the report is shared with the ethics compliance officer, the person in charge, and an external legal adviser. The confidentiality on the content of the consultation is strictly maintained and guaranteed. The system is fully explained to employees in a compliance training Introduction of websites session, and publicized on CJ Lion’s website and intranet. CSR Management (Japanese) ［Ethics Management Hot Line］ http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/ URL http://www.cjlion.co.kr/en/corporate/ethicsManagement.do *1 10 principles of the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior *2 Compliance Awareness Survey 1.Principal Mission 2.Compliance with Public Rules 3.Disclosure 4.Environmental Issues Questionnaire survey in which respondents anonymously answer questions on, for example, compliance with the Lion Charter for Corporate Behavior, 5.Promotion of Working Environment 6.Contribution to the Society 7.Opposition to Antisocial Forces whether or not feedback was received from the Compliance Awareness 8.Contribution in Foreign Countries 9.Practice of Corporate Ethics 10.Resolution of Problems Survey in the previous year, and awareness of the hotline. Related information p6 30 Lion CSR Report 2017 Ideal Vision Lion's CSR Establishing a Framework for Huma n R i gh ts Respecting Human Rights Organizational Governance Basic Approach Lion has stipulated that we shall “respect human rights” labor and forced or compulsory labor, promotion of and “observe both the spirit as well as the letter of all equal employment opportunities, fair treatment of applicable laws and international rules” in the Lion employees, and human rights of suppliers. In 2009, we Group Charter for Corporate Behavior.” Moreover, the declared our intention to support the ten principles of “Behavioral Guidelines” refers to the prohibition of child the United Nations Global Compact. Human Rights Disseminating Human Rights Policy Making the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines take root Labor Practices Lion has stated its policies regarding respect for human an opportunity via e-learning or documents to gain a rights in the “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavdeeper understanding and commitment to the charter on ior” and “Behavioral Guidelines” based thereon. To enan annual basis. Additionally, we conduct a questionnaire sure thorough communication of the Charter to directors, survey every year to confirm the extent to which the Lion Group employees, and temporary staff, we provide Charter has been adopted. Ensuring Human Rights Due Diligence The Environment Enhancing framework to ensure respect for human rights in light of the different stages of the value chain Lion has enhanced systems for reporting, correcting and following-up, and understanding the imIntroduction of websites pacts of its activities on human rights in light of Respect for human rights (Japanese) the different stages of the value chain. http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/humanrights/duediligence/ Fair Operating Practices ■ An Overview of Our Initiatives for Protecting Human Rights Procurement of Stages of Raw Materials, Major initiatives Value Chain Use by consumers Packages, and Containers undertaken by Lion Business partners Employees Customers ●Efforts based on ●Widespread promotion of “Harassment Prevention Declaration” ●Aggressive pursuit of Main Objectives and efforts the Procurement among employees safety and Principles and ●Confirmation of recruitment, evaluation, and remuneration at each functionalities by Consumer Issues the Lion Group Supplier point in time CSR Guidelines ●Execution of human rights education using our ●Creation of an environment in which discrimination on the basis of own “product Related information p42-43 religion, race and other factors is curbed ●Establishment of the hotline management system” ●Establishment of the Hotline Related information p30 Related information Related information p30 Subjects for Clinical Trials p44-46 ●Respecting the Helsinki Declaration ●Consideration Palm oil farms for ●Operation of the Regulations for the Implementation of Clinical “vulnerable users” Community Involvement and ●Participation in RSPO Trials in order to place high priority on the safety of the subjects activities and ethical considerations such as the elderly ●Continuation of the and children, by purchasing of RSPOResidents around our plants preparing a “labeling certified palm oil ●Environmental management under Lion’s Environmental Guidelines to prevent contamination, and compliance with laws manual” derivative and regulations Development Related information p43 Related information p36-41 ●Implementation of an environmental assessment ahead of construction of new plants Lion CSR Report 2017 31 Ideal Vision Changing Awareness of es Employees through Practic L a b or Raising Morale and Motivation Basic Approach In the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, Lion maintain work environments that flexibly allow a calls for “fair treatment respecting the diversity, variety of working styles,” “do our utmost to assist individuality and personalities of our employees” and employees who strive to learn specialized skills and “ensuring a safe and comfortable workplace to realize knowledge and aim for ambitious goals.” and “engage the mental and physical well-being of our employees.” sincerely in dialog and discussion with employees and Also included in the Behavioral Guidelines are “to their representatives.” promote a healthy work-life balance and strive to Promoting Amicable Labor-Management Relations Understanding and developing trust between labor and management based on active communication Lion executes labor agreements with the Lion Workers’ bor-management meetings on a regular basis to consult with Union for the purposes of promoting sound labor-manageeach other on an equal footing. Operating under a union ment relations based on mutual understanding and trust, shop agreement*1, Lion has endeavored to build amicable laobserving the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior by bor-management relations, in which employees and managerealizing the social mission and responsibilities of the compament proactively conduct activities such as reporting on businy and its workers’ union, and working together to achieve ness conditions and exchanging opinions about the working growth of the company’s business and maintain/improve environment at labor-management meetings. In overseas working conditions of union members. group companies, efforts are also made to build and sustain The agreements provide that: the company shall recognize sound labor-management relationships, developing better freedom of lawful union activities by union members; the working environment through proactive communications becompany shall not unfairly treat union members by reason tween employees and management in the meetings of thereof; and the company and the union shall have laworkers’ unions and the labor-management council. Human Resource Development Promoting PDCA through the target management system and providing opportunities for training and ability development ■ Improving a Training System ■ LION CHALLENGE CUP Innovation for Each Function 2016 was the second year of the “LION CHALLENGE CUP – InnovaIn training for each job function, measures to reinforce specialties in tion,” in which employees can make a “dream-inspiring proposal for each business are offered. In the marketing division, the “Marketing Lion” directly to the management. This event aims to draw out innoStudy Program” has been offered since 2014. To date, employees, vative proposals leading to significant future growth of the entire who show high performance in their respective divisions, were apcompany, increasing employees’ awareness of personal developpointed as staff of the marketing division. For further improvement, ment, and identifying business domains in which we should contribwe have designed and operated a program to discover employees, ute to society. The contents of the proposals, which got through the who have capabilities in marketing and are enthusiastic about conpreliminary round, are presented to management in the final round. tinuing further efforts and learning. This program provides systematIn 2016, from amongst the 34 entries, one team was awarded the ic learning opportunities for mastering practical marketing theories, gold prize, one team the silver, two teams the bronze, and one team and planning and designing based on insights into consumers and the jury’s special prize. Feasibility studies are being conducted for the from competitive strategies, and fosters future marketing personnel proposals that won gold and silver prizes at the related divisions. by judging their qualifications. *1 Union shop agreement A labor agreement in which a worker is employed by a company on condition of becoming a member of a specific labor union. 32 Lion CSR Report 2017 Human Resource Diversity Using personnel capable of responding swiftly to Lion's CSR changes in the business environment Lion has made efforts toward promoting “human re■ Approach for the Promotion of Women’s source diversity” in light of the need to swiftly respond to Participation and Advancement changes in the business environment, and promoted in the Workplaces Organizational Governance plans and proposals for personnel measures to make diverse human resources more active, with the participaAware that it is essential for women to work actively in ortion of employees. Currently a team for diversity set up der to create our corporate value, we have addressed meawithin the Personnel Department has been implementing sures to advance women’s success in their working life. measures to promote human resource diversity. In line with “The Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace” enacted in the Na■ Offering an Opportunity to Gain tional Diet in 2016, Lion has improved childcare-related systems and implemented measures to support employees to Knowledge about Jobs in the Company maintain a balance between work and childcare so that they (Holding a Career Forum) can continue to work for a long time. Consequently, as seen Human Rights This measure was proposed for the purpose of supporting in Lion’s non-consolidated average service years for male and the career development of young employees. Opportunities female employees, which are respectively 19 years and 17 to learn about the operations of other departments are years and seven months, female employees are working acprovided so that employees can obtain inspiration to design tively for long periods. We are also making efforts to intheir career. In the Forum, personnel from specific positions crease the percentage of female managerial officials* to 15% describe their departments and the content of their work. or higher in Japan by 2020. Since the forum started in 2012, the finance, legal affairs, Lion’s action plans in accordance with the Act on Promarketing, public relations, CSR, sales, and international demotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in Labor Practices partments have been taken up as topics. In the fifth forum the Workplace and declaration for women’s promotion in 2016, under the theme of new business and production, are available on the “Positive Action (Women’s Promoexplanations and advice on how to use one’s previous cation) Information Portal Site,” a project commissioned by reer experience for the future was given. the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. ［Declaration for the Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace］(Japanese) URL http://www.positiveaction.jp/declaration/add/search_detail/?id=1664 ［Lion’s Action Plans in Accordance with the Act of the Promotion The Environment of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace］ (Japanese) URL http://www.positiveaction.jp/pa/search/detail.php?company_id=1620 ＊At Lion, personnel in a managerial position, which is at the level of an assistant manager or higher, is considered as a managerial official. ■Employing People with Disabilities In order to make full use of individual abilities regardless Fair Operating Practices Career Forum of whether the person in question has disabilities or not, we proactively employ people with disabilities thus devel■ Regionally Based Employees Program oping a corporate culture to improve the working environSince 2013, Lion has had in place the Regionally Based ment and support such individuals in the entire workplace. Employees Program with the aim of finding and keeping In March, 2016 we established a special subsidiary, Lion excellent personnel from among our temporary employTomoni Co., Ltd., and have been promoting the employees, who are contributing greatly to the company, as well ment of people with disabilities and expanding work opas enabling regular employees to choose diverse working portunities for them. arrangements. The regionally based employees can select Twelve employees and four instructors of Lion Tomoni Consumer Issues their workplace from seven regions in Japan that Lion has are actively engaged in daily work including the managechosen for this program. Their compensation and benement of interoffice mail and printing of business cards for fits are at a similar level to regular employees in the same all Lion employees. region. Under the program, nine such individuals were hired from among temporary employees in 2015, nine in 2016, and five in 2017. Community Involvement and Development Sorting out interoffice mail Lion CSR Report 2017 33 Labor Practices Promoting Work-Life Balance Building an environment where employees Kurumin mark: can deliver results while working flexibly A symbol of a company supporting childcare Lion strives to build an environment where employees can deliver results while placing value on balancing work Act for Measures to Support the Development of the life with private life. Next-Generation Children Phase 5 Action Plan Four goals are set in the Phase 5 Action ■ Building an Environment Where Plan for three years from April 2015 to March 2018. Employees Can Work Dynamically Within the period of the action plan, implement support Goal: 1 measures to create a working environment in which employees Since 2010, Lion has worked to reduce prolonged work and encourage on childcare leave can smoothly return to work. employees to take paid leaves. In 2016, a weekly “No-overtime day” and →Introduction of the “website to support employees returning to work monthly “No-overtime week” were implemented. In order to facilitate and raising children,” for supporting employees on childcare leave to understanding of management of working hours, e-learning is provided make a balance between their career and childcare (February 2016). for all employees. Furthermore, under a labor-management agreement, →Implementation of “Back-to-Work Seminar” for employees before returning we proactively encourage employees to systematically take at least three to work (October 2015, February and October 2016, February 2017). days paid leave per year with the aim of having them take more than →Launch of individual explanatory meetings for employees on childcare leave and their bosses (January 2016). 60% of paid leave, which led to the improvement of the acquisition rate in 2016. We will make continuous efforts in this regard. Within the period of the action plan, implement measures to Goal: 2 foster corporate culture toward women’s participation and ■ Programs to Support Maintain advancement in the workplace. →Held the 4th Career Forum (November 2015) a Balance between Work and Childcare →Held the 5th Career Forum (July 2016) →Held the “Frank Exchange of Opinions on Lion’s Women Empowerment As a result of enhancing various programs and increasing employees’ Meeting” (June 2016). awareness, the ratio of female employees taking childcare leave was 100%. Male employees are also taking the leave in many departments. Goal: 3 Within the period of the action plan, have 13 or more male In addition, Lion is addressing career development during the childcare employees take childcare leave. period by establishing the website to support employees returning to →Seven male employees took the leave (As of December 2016). work and raising children” and supporting employees taking childcare Within the period of the action plan, facilitate understanding leave to upgrade their skills. Goal: 4 about and the use of the Work-at-Home System, and implement measures to promote the adoption of the system. ［Programs to support maintain a balance →Explanatory meetings and individual hearings at workplace were held. between work and childcare］(Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ Related information Highlight 02 p24-25 ■ Employee Data (Non-consolidated, including employees assigned to ■ Programs to Support and Maintain a affiliated companies) 2014 2015 2016 Balance between Work and Nursing Care Employees Male 2,292 2,268 2,239 As part of creating the environment that allows employees to continue Female 729 758 775 to work without anxiety, Lion has enhanced support for employees enFemale employee ratio (%) 24.1 25.0 25.7 gaged in nursing care. In addition to ordinary annual paid leave, we New Employees Male 59 56 49 have in place programs for nursing care, including accumulated leave for (New Graduates) Female 25 28 29 medical nursing care (accumulation of expired annual paid leave), shortNumber of people 289 262 250 er work-hours for nursing care (Short Hours Flextime System), and nursRe-hired Retirees ing care leave expanded up to 365 days (minimum unit of one day). At % 9.6 8.7 8.3 the same time, a website targeted for employees aged 40 and up was Temporary employees 457 461 467 developed to provide a variety of information on nursing care. Number of people 52 57 62 Female managers* ［Programs to help maintain the balance between % 5.9 6.4 6.9 work and nursing care］(Japanese) Number of people 43 51 55 Employees with URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ disabilities % 1.8 2.0 2.2 Related information Highlight 02 p24-25 Employees who took Male 6 5 2 ■ The Work-at-Home System childcare leave Female 37 33 53 Employees who took Male 0 0 0 Lion has been making efforts to improve business productivity and workshorter work-hours for childcare Female 57 58 40 life balance. The Work-at-Home System was introduced in 2015 as a flexible way to work outside of the office. In order to facilitate understanding and Average overtime per month (hours) 11.7 11.0 11.1 penetration of the system, we have been enhancing the system by repeatAnnual paid leave used (%) 50.8 51.8 55.1 edly holding explanatory meetings, individual hearings at workplace, and Average service years Male 19.8年 19.8年 20.3年 (excluding re-hired confirming the effects of facilitating use of the system. employees) Female 17.7年 17.4年 18.0年 ■ Approach to compliance with Next Employees who resigned Number of people 2名 4名 7名 within three years of entering the company % 1.0 1.6 2.8 Generation Support Act ＊% of Female Managers for 2015 was misreported in last year’s report Lion has formulated and addressed action plans in accordance with the and has been corrected in this year’s report. Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next-Generation ＊Position corresponding to section chief or higher Children by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. As a reEmployee Data related to domestic group companies are available sult, achieving all goals from phase 1 to 4, we have been certified as a on the CSR website. (Japanese) company supporting childcare with the “Kurumin” Mark. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/various/ 34 Lion CSR Report 2017 Promoting Employees’ Health Management Supporting employees’ self-management and Lion's CSR establishing a reliable and healthy working environment Based on the concept that the good health of employees serves as a business foundation to support sound corporate growth, Lion has been ■ Mental Health Initiatives conducting a variety of measures. With the Guidelines for Health as our With our Mental Health Basic Policy established in 2004, Lion has taken Organizational Governance core basic principles, Lion conducts detailed health management activiproactive measures to support the mental health of our employees, for ties for employees from three different angles: mental health, physical example, through providing a consultation after periodical checkups for health, and health awareness (awareness of self-management of health) all employees and a stress level check test which started in 2006. In 2016, and health management programs are developed for employees of dif97% of employees took the stress level check test*1. The results are comferent age groups. piled and analyzed by section/department in such a way that individuals ［Guidelines for Health］ cannot be identified, feedback is sent to responsible officers, and used URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/health.php for training of managers. In this way, Lion has continued organizational mental health initiatives. ［Programs for maintaining mental health, ■ Dental Prophylaxis Program (ALOHA) physical health, and health awareness］(Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/health/ In collaboration with the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (LDH), we ■ Organizational Approach to Health Management Human Rights have focused on the improvement of oral health by incorporating dental checkups into the annual health checkups for all employees since 2002. Lion has conducted health management activities based on discussions Since 2016, we have enhanced our programs to raise employees’ awarecarried out at a joint session called the “Health Management Promotion ness of preventive measures to maintain oral health care and to promote Committee Meeting” attended by the manager, who is responsible for activities to sustain healthy life with oral-care information spread through health management of the company (The Personnel Manager), the the e-learning system (L-navi) and Saliva Test System that measures the Health Insurance Society and the Health Support Office. We will continurisks of cavities, periodontal diseases and oral cleanliness from saliva. ously make improvements through PDCA management and accumulate ［ALOHA］All Lion Oral Health Activity know-how on industrial health. ［Dentistry data of Lion employees］(Japanese) Labor Practices URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/health/ 2017 Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (White 500) Lion was selected as a “2017 Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (White 500)” in February 2017. The program is sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), designed to recognize enterprises engaging in initiatives for overcoming health-related challenges in regional communities and for promoting corporate health achievement. Lion will continue to promote health management for its employees. The Environment Enhancing Group-wide Occupational Health and Safety Management System Establishing systems to promote occupational safety and safety of facilities Based on the principle of Safety First, Lion has established its unique Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention Management System for domes■ Safety of Facility tic group companies, through which we have added our own disaster Most of the plant accidents that happened recently at other compaFair Operating Practices prevention measures to the Occupational Safety and Health Managenies were attributed to the diminished sense in safety management ment System (OSHMS)*2 based on the guidelines of Japan’s Ministry of and shortfalls in workers’ skills and awareness. Health, Labor and Welfare. Therefore, Lion has worked to enhance equipment safety from a Lion is promoting the safety of its employees across the entire group mediumto long-term perspective, with approaches to both the hard including at overseas group companies. Outside Japan, systems to prevent (equipment management) and soft (operational management) sides serious accidents have been developed and enhanced based on domestic of operations. regulations including Operational Management Rules for the Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention Management System and Safety Design Guideline for Facilities. In addition, employees in overseas group companies have taken training on safety and disaster prevention in plants in Japan. Consumer Issues ■ Occupational Safety In 2016, the number of labor accidents, including affiliated companies, was 18, a decrease of three from the previous year’s 21. The number of lost time accidents was five. We will increase awareness of safety by enhancing training on safety, among other measures. Community Involvement and Number of employees who participated in safety training (2016) Introduction of websites Chiba Plant Odawara Plant Osaka Plant Akashi Plant Total In collaboration with our employees (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/ 73 87 55 98 313名 Development *1 Stress level check test *2 Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) Test of employee psychological burdens (obligatory since December 2015 with the A system to voluntarily conduct continuous safety and health management revision of the Japanese Industrial Safety and Health Act). through PDCA. Lion CSR Report 2017 35 Ideal Vision Contributing to the Development of e nt a Sustainable Society as an vironm The En Environmentally Advanced Company Basic Approach In 2011, Lion announced its Management Vision, the Earth,” derives. We will work on communication by Vision2020. In 2013, we formulated our new increasing customers’ environmental awareness through environmental objective, Eco Vision 2020, as our products, in addition to achieving targeted values Vision2020 details a group-wide policy of becoming an with the aim of “realizing a low carbon society,” “environmentally advanced company.” “realizing a sound material-cycle society,” and “realizing As with “Eco Vision 2020,” our thoughts regarding a society harmonizing with nature.” environmental activities are represented in our environmental message “Lion and the Environment,” ［Every day. For the Earth.］(Japanese) from which our environmental slogan, “Everyday. For URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ Environmental Guidelines Our stance toward voluntary and proactive environmental conservation activities performed throughout the value chain Lion’s Environmental Guidelines adhere to the spirit of the formulation of “Eco Vision 2020.” The revised Guidethe “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior,” which states: lines more clearly express our attitude toward“realizing a “We shall play a positive and active role in creating a low carbon society,” “realizing a sound material-cycle socisustainable society that harmonizes economic developety” and “realizing a society harmonizing with nature,” as ment and environmental protection.” well as our stance toward our efforts overseas. In 2013, we revised the Guidelines in accordance with Environmental Guidelines Lion will act voluntarily and proactively to reduce its environmental 4.Developing Environment-Friendly Products burden to the global environment in all processes of business activiContinue aggressively with product development in tune with Lion’s ties from the development of products to the procurement of raw own “Lion eco-standards” and in light of lifecycle assessments. materials, production, distribution, sales, use by customers, as well as disposal. This will be done with due consideration to “realizing a 5.Reducing Environmental Impact Together low carbon society to prevent global warming,” “realizing a sound with Our Business Partners material-cycle society with maximum usage of recycled resources” Strive to reduce environmental burdens at all stages from purchase through provision of products to customers, in cooperation with and “realizing a society harmonizing with nature to conserve peosuppliers of materials, outsourcing contractors, and sales companies. ple’s health, natural ecosystems and biodiversity.” 6.Harmonizing with Nature 1. Aiming for a Sustainable Society Conduct business activities while taking into account biodiversity Promote an environmental management system, and through ongoand air and water environments, and proactively address natural ing maintenance and improvement of that system, protect the globenvironment protection activities. al environment. 2. Complying with Legal and Other 7.Enhancing Environmental Protection Requirements Activities Based on Uniform Comply with the system of legislation, regulations and arrangeUnderstanding of the Guidelines ments pertaining to environmental protection, and establish and Disseminate the Guidelines to all Lion employees, including those of implement voluntary standards of conduct. its affiliated companies, raise awareness of environmental protec3. Setting and Verifying Implementation tion among them and bolster environmental management activities of Environmental Objectives and Targets throughout the entire Lion Group. Correctly understand the environmental impact of our corporate 8.Promoting Disclosure of Information activities, and as far as technically and economically possible, establish objectives and targets for improvement, while at the same Seek to maintain and promote communication with stakeholdtime formulating, implementing and regularly verifying the status ers involved in Lion’s businesses. These Environmental Guideof implementation of an environmental management program. lines are freely available to anyone upon request. Revised January 1, 2013 36 Lion CSR Report 2017 Environmental Management Structure and Management System Mechanism to promote cross-departmental Lion's CSR environmental conservation activities ■ Environmental Management System ■ Environmental Management Structure The purpose of the Lion Group’s Environmental ManageExecutive Environmental Conservation Committee Organizational Governance ment System is to identify, evaluate and remedy adverse Committee Chairman: effects that our business activities, products and services Director of the Board Responsible have on the environment, and to improve our environSecretariat: mental protection activities on an on-going basis. Group-wide Manager of CSR Promotion Department,Environmental Conservation Office Systems for environmental management and reporting environment management Members of Committee: (Director of Environmental Directors of production, administrative/sales, activities have been enhanced with the aim of responding Conservation Office) R&D, and headquarters staff divisions to the environment globally. Data on overseas group companies is available on our website. Production Division Administrative/Sales Division ［Data on the environmental burden of group companies’ plants (overseas)］ Manager of environment Manager of environment R&D Division Manager of management management environment management Afiliated URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/2017/env_data_2017.pdf companies (General manager of production (General manager of general (General manager of corporate Human Rights management department) affair department) management department) Status of ISO 14001 Certification Each plant Each office Each laboratory Lion acquired ISO14001 certification covering all its plants in July 2001. The certification was renewed to the latest (2015) version in June 2016, and the Japan Management ■ Legal Compliance Association Quality Assurance Registration Center In regard to the revisions of environmental laws and regu(JMAQA) reviewed and verified that all plants are operatlations namely, the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the ing in conformity with the requirements of the standards. Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, Labor Practices Currently, the domestic Lion group companies are perthe Act on Confirmation, etc. of Released Amounts of forming and managing operations in compliance with the Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promost recent version of ISO14001. Including the plants of motion of Improvements to the Management Thereof, the group companies in and outside Japan, the Lion Group has Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulabeen continuing to push ahead with its management systion of Their Manufacture, etc., and the Waste Disposal tems and environmental conservation activities by obtainand Public Cleansing Act, the Environmental Conservation ing ISO14001 certifications and performing operations in Office collects information from administrative agencies compliance with ISO 14001. and industrial associations, and registers the information The Environment with an intranet system for information on chemicals-related laws to keep the related departments updated about latest developments. In addition, with our voluntarily established waste management regulations, we have in place a management system. There were no violations resulting in a fine or other Fair Operating Practices penalty during 2016. Pollution Prevention Production activities conscious about air and water quality Lion also implements voluntary initiatives for reducing Data on management of chemical substances in compliemissions of chemical substances, including nitrogen oxance with the PRTR system* is available on Lion’s website. Consumer Issues ides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), particulate matter and volWe will continue our efforts to reduce the amount of desatile organic compounds (VOC). We also strive to reduce ignated substances released and transferred by setting up Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) with improvements in and monitoring reduction targets. the reliability of the waste water processing facilities ［Data of the amount of PRTR-Designated Substances released through periodical maintenance. and transferred in production sites in Japan in 2016］(Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ ［Data of environmental impacts of production sites in Japan］(Japanese) Community Involvement and URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/ Development * PRTR system A system to measure, aggregate, and publish emissions of toxic chemical and other substances. Lion CSR Report 2017 37 The Environment Enhancing Group-wide Management of Chemical Substances Chemical substances are indispensable for people to lead to ensure strict management of chemical substances at all comfortable and fulfilling lives. Failure to properly manage stages from product development to use/disposal in accorchemical substances, however, can result in accidents that put dance with our own independent standards. human health and ecosystems at enormous risk. In addition ［Chemical Substance Management］(Japanese) to compliance with related laws and regulations, Lion strives URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ ■ Lion’s Chemical Substance Management 1 Product 2 Production 3 Transportation 4 Use and Disposal Development Safety verification and Measurement and reduction of Provision of safety information Provision of information on safety management of chemical substance releases during transportation and handling of chemical products chemical substances contained in raw materials, packages, and containers Engaging in Progressive Environmental Activities Pursuing environmental targets “Eco Vision 2020” in light of global issues ■ Achievements in the second year of Eco Vision 2020 is conducted by dividing the nine years Eco Vision V-2 (from 2015 to 2017) and from 2012 to 2020 into three periods, V-1 to V-3, of three years. 2016 was the second year of V-2. As with the previon the future plans ous years, all employees of Lion Group have been united in promoting environmental activities and are carrying out activities according to the plans for V-2. Five key items 【Greenhouse gas emissions from business activities in Japan】 【Water use in domestic business activities】 In 2016, we reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 43% In 2016, we reduced water used in domestic business activi(compared to 1990, emission intensity per unit total reveties by 49% (compared to 2000, water used per unit total nue), which is better than the previous year’s 41% (same revenue), progressing with a pace exceeding the 2020 target unit as above). As with the previous year, integration of of a 35% reduction. This is mainly due to modification of the production facilities and energy-saving activities conductproduction process, water-saving activities at all offices and ed at all offices and plants contributed to the reduction. plants, and recycling of waste water from the production We will continue to make efforts towards achieving our process at our Chiba Plant as stated below. We will continue targets for 2017 and 2020. with our water-saving activities. 【Greenhouse gas emissions from post-use productions in Japan】 【Recycling of plant waste water discharge】 In order to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from Aiming to achieve the target for “recycling waste water at post-use products, we are making products more compact multiple plants by 2020,” we have completed construction of and switching from petroleum-based surfactant ingredifacilities to recycle waste water from the production process ents to plant-based ingredients that do not lead to an inat our Chiba Plant in 2015, which went into full-scale operacrease in CO2 emissions. In 2016, emissions decreased by tion in 2016. This further contributes to reduction of waste 52% (compared to1990, emission intensity per unit total water discharge and water consumption. revenue), a further reduction from previous year’s 49% Related information Highlight 03 p26-27 (same unit as above). We will push on with our activities to achieve the set targets. 【Greenhouse gas emissions from overseas business activities】 In 2016, we reduced greenhouse gas emission by 4% (compared to 2014, emission intensity per unit of production) with an annual average of 2%, achieving the target of a 1% reduction for each year. Improvement in the capacity utilization of our Thai Plant and the use of waste heat contributed to the reduction. We will continue to develop and implement energy-saving programs in our overseas plants. 38 Lion CSR Report 2017 Achievements of Eco Vision V-2 (2015 to 2017) and target values of Eco Vision 2020 Categories Achievements in 2016 Target values for 2017 Target values for 2020 Lion's CSR Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit ①Reduction of total revenue total revenue Within the total revenue Greenhouse gases (domestic) greenhouse gases 27% reduction (compared to 2010) 23% reduction (compared to 2010) 34% reduction (compared to 2010) 43% reduction (compared to 1990) 40% reduction (compared to 1990) 49% reduction (compared to 1990) from business company activities Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Realizing a Low Carbon Society 43% reduction (compared to 1990) 41% reduction (compared to 1990) 40% reduction (compared to 1990) Organizational Governance Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit ②Reduction of Outside the total revenue total revenue total revenue greenhouse gases 8% reduction (compared to 2010) 7% reduction (compared to 2010) 9% reduction (compared to 2010) from post-use 52% reduction (compared to 1990) 52% reduction (compared to 1990) 53% reduction (compared to 1990) company products Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 41% reduction (compared to 1990) ③Reduction of Greenhouse gases (overseas) Within the greenhouse gases Emission intensity per unit of Emission intensity per unit of Emission intensity per unit of from business production production production company 4% reduction in two years 1% reduction year-on-year activities, (compared to 2014) (compared to 2014) 1% reduction year-on-year overseas Human Rights ④Reduction of Outside the greenhouse gases Reduction of 64 thousand tons Reduction of 100 thousand tons annually － annually from post-use company products, overseas Water use per unit total Water use per unit total Water use per unit total Within the revenue revenue revenue ⑤Reduction of Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society 34% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) water use in 49% reduction (compared to 2000) 34% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) company business activities Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Labor Practices 49% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) 23% reduction (compared to 2000) Water Water use per unit total Water use per unit total Water use per unit total ⑥Reduction of Outside the revenue revenue revenue water usage at 23% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 17% reduction (compared to 2010) household using 49% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 45% reduction (compared to 2000) company our products Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 49% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 33% reduction (compared to 2000) The Environment ⑦Zero emissions Continued achieving zero emission Zero emissions at all domestic Waste within the at all domestic production sites － production sites company*1 ⑧Recycle of factory Waste Full-scale operation of facilities to Recycle factory waste water at waste water recycle waste water at Chiba Plant － multiple plants water discharge*2 Fair Operating Practices ⑨Procurement of Harmonizing with Nature plant-derived oils Continuing purchase of All palm oil derivatives purchased Procurement that take RSPO*3-certified palm oil － to be RSPO-certified biodiversity into derivatives consideration ⑩Increase biodiversity Carried out in all Lion's plants and at Biodiversity offices of Lion and some of its － Carry out in all domestic sites conservation affiliate companies activities Consumer Issues ⑪Environmental Education Awareness and 70% increase in consumer 80% increase in consumer 100% increase in consumer awareness and Education in participation in our awareness participation in our awareness participation in our awareness education for activities (compared to 2010) activities (compared to 2010) activities (compared to 2010) the Society consumers ＊1 The recycling ratio of total waste generation is 99% or more, excluding recycling residues. ＊2 Waste water from production processes ＊3 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Community Involvement and Development Lion CSR Report 2017 39 The Environment ■ Harmonizing with Nature Lion has assumed a leading role in tackling water-related environmental issues such as bubble floating occurred in rivers and eutrophication of waterways linked to the use of detergents through considering biodiversity conservation at each stage from raw material procurement to disposal. However, in order to receive the blessings of biodiversity into the future, it will be necessary for us to coordinate with local communities to focus on conservation of biodiversity and promote sustainable use of the resources. Additionally, it is important to promote a shift in lifestyle of consumers through products that take biodiversity into consideration, and to contribute to the realization of a society harmonizing with nature. To this end, Lion will contribute to the development of a sustainable society through its business by ascertaining that the natural resources used in business activities and the impact on biodiversity throughout the value chain is reduced. Additionally, Lion will carry out biodiversity conservation activities that will lead to the expansion of opportunities and reduce the environmental risks. Also, by having each of our employees participate in activities to conserve biodiversity as part of our environmental education, we will spread awareness of biodiversity conservation to all our office sites. Overview of Our Business Activities that Take Biodiversity Conservation into Consideration Watershed* ecosystem Biodiversity on Watershed ecosystem where in raw material Watershed ecosystem where consumers reside which Lion relies our plants are located origination sites Corresponding Procurement of raw Disposal stages of materials, packages, Production Use by consumers by value chain and containers consumers ● Plantsused as raw ● Cooling water and raw ● Servicewater at the Key natural materials water used for equipment time of using our resources used (oil palms etc.) cleaning etc., which are products — by Lion used in plants ●Impact on natural ●Impact of underground ●Impact of water intake ●Impact of waste environments of water intake by plants by consumers on water and waste palm oil growers on surrounding natural surrounding natural packaging environments and local and local communities environments and local materials from communities ●Impact of waste water communities consumers on Possible major (impact on wildlife surrounding from plants on impact of our habitats caused by surrounding natural natural activities on illegal logging of environments and local environments biodiversity tropical forests) communities and local ●Impact of light and communities odors from plants on surrounding natural environments and local communities ●Promotion of ●Reduction of plant wastes ●Development of ●Surveying procurement of Related information Web② water-saving detergents environmental sustainable palm oils ●Development of highly impact of ●Reductionof water (participation in RSPO biodegradable detergents surfactants Biodiversity conservation activities consumption at plants and purchase of Related information Web② Activities RSPO-certified oils) Related information Web② Related information to reduce Highlight 03 （p26-27） Related information Web③ risks ●Conservation p43 of rivers and other ecosystems by implementing purification technologies on discharged waste water ●Conservation and ●Educational activities regarding ●Promotion of 3Rs monitoring of habitats care of water and natural (Refills, condensing of on the watershed where environments content to make plants are located (Activities include forest products more (Activities include protection improvement under the name of compact, and Activities to of endangered loggerhead sea Lion Forest, conducting the development of expand — turtles maintaining biotopes, Rainwater Utilization Ideas containers, e.g. recycled opportunities removal of non-native plants Contest, and water-related PET (polyethylene on beaches, and activities to environmental research support terephthalate) bottles maintain domestic woodlands through the Japan Society on and containers with (satoyama)) Water Environment) thin-wall molding) Related information Web④ Related information p51 Related p48 information Web② ＊ Watershed: Ecosystems including forests, rivers, domestic woodlands (Satoyama), tidal flats and beaches that are connected by water. 40 Lion CSR Report 2017 ■ Realizing a Low Carbon Society/ a Sound Material-Cycle Society Lion has worked to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as recycling and effective use of resources at each stage from raw material procurement to disposal. Detailed data is available on our website. We will promote activities toward Lion's CSR realization of a low carbon society/ a sound material-cycle society. Overview of Our Business Activities Toward Realization of a Low Carbon Society/a Sound Material-Cycle Society Corresponding Procurement of raw Use by Disposal stages of materials, packages, Production consumers by value chain and containers consumers Organizational Governance ●Substituting plantPlants ●Education to increase ●Substituting derived materials for ●Improving energy efficiency consumers’ environmental petroleum petroleum resources by reviewing production awareness through resources with processes, introducing products plant-derived Related information energy-saving equipment at (an environmental label is materials renewing facilities and attached to products that Web① downsizing products meet the “Lion eco●Promoting 3Rs Related information P48 standards”) (Refills, Related information P48 condensing of Office/Facilities content to make ●Company-wide energy-saving ●Reducing power products more Human Rights activities including at the consumption during the compact, and administrative & sales division use of our power-saving development of Activities for and the R&D division products containers, e.g., realizing a low (involves decreasing the recycled PET carbon society Distribution after (polyethylene number of rinsing times shipment associated with the use of terephthalate) ●Increasing the rate of detergents that only bottles and modal shift during require one rinse) containers with transportation of products thin wall molding) such as shifting freight from Related Labor Practices truck to rail or ship information ●Improving logistics p48,Web② efficiency through means such as by increasing the transport loading rate Related information Web① Procurement of raw Disposal The Environment Corresponding Use by stages of materials, packages, Production consumers by value chain and containers consumers ●Using plantPlants ●Education to increase ●Promoting 3Rs derived materials ●Promoting zero emissions consumers’ environmental (Refills, condensing (renewable raw within the company awareness through products of content to make materials) (an environmental label is products more ●Reducing plant waste attached to products that compact, and water discharge Fair Operating Practices ●Using meet “Lion eco-standards”) development of recycled ●Reducing water Related information p48 containers, e.g., materials consumption by water recycled PET Activities for recycling (polyethylene ●Reducing water usage during realizing a terephthalate) sound materialthe use of our water-saving Office/Facilities bottles and products cycle society ●Promoting company-wide containers with Related information Web② green purchases thin-wall molding) Related information Web② Related information p48,Web② Consumer Issues ●Promotion of Toothbrush Recycling Program The websites below are all in Japanese. Introduction of websites Web①［Realizing a Low Carbon Society］ Community Involvement and URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/climate/ Environmental Initiatives (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ Web②［Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society］ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/resources/ Every day. For the Earth. (Japanese) Web③［Harmonizing with Nature］ http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecolion/ Development URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/biodiversity/ Web④［Initiatives for Biodiversity Conservation in Each Office］ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/biodiversity/ Lion CSR Report 2017 41 Ideal Vision Promoting CSR Activities ng perati Fair O ices throughout the Value Chain Pract Basic Approach In accordance with the “Lion Group Charter for business partners to comply with laws and regulations. Corporate Behavior” and the “Behavioral Guidelines,” Furthermore, in 2009, Lion expressed its support for the we have made efforts to “engage in fair, transparent ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and it has and free competition and proper transactions” while made it clear that the company is serious about “maintaining sound and proper relationships with preventing bribery and corruption. governmental and political bodies.” We also require Promotion of CSR Procurement Procuring sustainable raw materials, packages, and containers, and encouraging suppliers to conduct CSR activities In our initiatives across the value chain, we believe that one ■ Promotion of CSR with Material Suppliers of our key issues is to enhance our partnerships with mateand Outsourcing Contractors rial suppliers and outsourcing contractors. In order to alleviWe require material suppliers and outsourcing contractors ate any negative impact of our business activities on the to carry out annual self-checks based on the “Lion Group environment and society, and sustainably develop mutual Supplier CSR Guidelines*1” in order to facilitate responsioperations, both our suppliers and our company need to ble procurement activities. Accordingly, we have been proenrich the content of the CSR activities. moting the development of a system to prevent risks from Also, regarding the palm oils used in methyl ester sulfonoccurring in supply chains with regard to human rights/laate (MES), an environmentally-friendly surfactant and bor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, plant-derived detergent material developed independently consumer issues, and compliance. by Lion, it is critical to promote procurement of sustainable Since 2014, we have made it possible to conduct all selfpalm oils. checks online so that our business partners can conduct self［Excellent features of “MES”］ (Japanese) checks more efficiently. In addition, by sending feedback URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/climate/ based on the results to the respondents, a system to continuously promote CSR procurement has been established. We will continue to promote CSR activities together with our business partners. ■ Timeline of our approach to CSR procurement 2005 Instituted the Basic Policy Regarding Purchasing for appropriate procurement of raw materials, packages, and containers, as well as products. Established the Procurement Principles that clarified our social and environmental considerations. Conducted a questionnaire survey for 2008 domestic and overseas material suppliers and outsourcing contractors about their corporate activities regarding legal compliance, product service quality and safety, environmental considerations, labor and human rights, and fair business transactions. Revised the Procurement Principles and clarified our stance to select business partners in light of legal compliance, environmental 2013 conservation, and respect for human rights. Established the Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline that shows the CSR activities we expect our material suppliers and outsourcing contractors to perform, and ask them to conduct self-checks on their own CSR activities. 2014 Introduced an online CSR self-check system, where CSR self-checks can be completed on a website. ［Procurement Principles］ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/procurement.php ＊1 Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline Guideline including the following 5 subjects and 21 items URL Japanese http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/jpn.pdf 1.Human Rights/Labor Practices English http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/eng.pdf 2.The Environment 3.Fair Operating Practices 4.Consumer Issues 5.Compliance Chinese http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/cn.pdf 42 Lion CSR Report 2017 ■ PDCA cycle for CSR self-checks by suppliers ■ Aggregate Results of Overall Self-Checks Based on the Lion Plan Do Group Supplier CSR Guideline Lion's CSR Establishment and Request for self-checks based (2016) disclosure of CSR Guideline on the CSR Guideline Share the Procurement No Ask suppliers to conduct online response Principles and CSR Guideline self-checks. with suppliers. 6% Requested Organizational Governance improvement Action Check 9% Feedback and improvement Analysis of self-checks No need for improvement Give feedback to suppliers and ask for Analyze the responses and identify improvement if necessary. suppliers that require improvement. 85 % The number of companies monitored: We make efforts to help our business partners understand the importance of CSR by 617 companies which Lion Group’s domestic explaining about CSR trends when asking for self-checks. The self-checks consist of companies procure raw materials, packages, and three-stage checking criteria in accordance with the level of each initiative. We also procontainers from or contract production to vide a glossary. Human Rights (Domestic :539, Overseas :78) Outline of Results ● In 2016, the response rate was 94%. The questions asked to rate suppliers’ CSR activity levels from 1 to 3, and the overall average was 2.73 indicating that CSR activities were widely practiced within the entire supply chain. ● We are working with those suppliers that require improvements (9%) or did not respond (6%) through interviews and other measures. Labor Practices ■ Aiming for Sustainable Procurement of Palm Oils Since 2006, Lion has been a member of the Roundtable We are actively promoting the utilization of plant-deon Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO*2), which attempts to solve rived materials that are carbon neutral and non-depletall the above-mentioned issues. In 2012, Lion Chemical able. As one of the plant-derived materials, we are using Co., Ltd.’s oleochemical production site passed the supply derivatives of palm oil – an oil that is globally produced chain certification system inspection and was certified as in largest quantities. Palm oils are mainly produced in a plant that is allowed to handle RSPO-certified palm oils. The Environment Malaysia and Indonesia. As a result of this, Lion started procuring RSPO-certified Palm oil plants grow constantly meaning that the oil palm oils in 2012. We set our target to complete the plants can be harvested throughout the year, with the switch of all palm oils to be used to certified palm oils by production volumes increasing year after year. However, a the end of 2015, and all the purchased palm oil became number of issues, such as the logging of tropical forests certified in July 2014. In 2016, we continued the purchase for development of new farms leading to a shrinking of of RSPO-certified palm oil derivatives to achieve the new wildlife habitats, have risen at the production sites, as a target for 2020 set last year. Fair Operating Practices result of the sudden explosion of production. Also, due to We will continue with our effort to procure sustainable inappropriate farming operations, various labor-managepalm oils into the future. ment issues regarding social fairness, including terrible labor conditions with very little consideration for health Target and safety, very low wages, improper treatment of migrant workers, and child labor, have been raised. 2020: All palm oil derivatives to be RSPO-certified Consumer Issues Int r oduc t ion of w e bs it e s In collaboration with our business customers (Japanese) RSPO supply chain certification http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/ Community Involvement and for Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. ＊2 RSPO Development Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil URL http://www.rspo.org/ The RSPO sets forth 8 principles and various criteria that apply to sustainable palm oil production, including those with regard to “environmental responsibility and conservation of natural resources and biodiversity,” “responsible development of new plantings” and “responsible consideration of employees and individuals and communities affected by growers and mills,” and only certifies palm oils produced in compliance with the set principles. Lion CSR Report 2017 43 Ideal Vision Pursuing Customer Satisfaction by Consu m er Issu es Creating Safe and Trustworthy Products Basic Approach In order to provide products that will satisfy our During product development, the quality of the developed customers, Lion carries out quality assurance activities at products is verified in respect to seven metrics including all stages, ranging from the very beginning of the product function and performance. Furthermore, we endeavor to creation process to the customer consumption of our provide clear and easy-to-read labeling for our customers. products. Specifically, by identifying key requirements for During manufacturing, thorough quality control is each stage of corporate activities―product planning, performed within each process, and products that have product development, manufacturing, sales, and customer passed inspections are shipped with identifiable data for support―we are constantly pursuing new heights of each lot, aiding in effective after-sale management. customer satisfaction. A variety of information is relayed to wholesalers and During product planning, valuable opinions received retailers through explanations about our products and by from customers are analyzed to identify customers’ needs. providing samples. ■ Product Development Incorporating Customer Opinions Maximization of customers' satisfaction Customer opinions and Products are developed by Raw materials and Product information is market survey findings are translating quality production processes are communicated in an reflected in planning in the objectives into technical managed to result in the accessible manner so that form of quality objectives parameters for design manufacture of products customers can ascertain the that will ensure that quality. with consistent quality. product features and usage. customers are fully satisfied. All employees acknowledge customer satisfaction as the starting point for realizing a happier lifestyle for customers. By responding to customer opinions and making ongoing improvements to products, Lion creates products that heighten customer satisfaction. Enhancing Group-wide Quality Assurance System Enhancing the mechanism to develop safe and high-quality products in Japan and overseas To deliver on our promise of “offering superior products development support structures across all functions of Lion that are helpful in the daily lives of people,” we are proincluding our overseas companies as well as a broad range moting the manufacturing of safe and high-quality prodof fields from consumables and pharmaceuticals to food. ucts that can satisfy our customers by putting in place a To respond to customer needs diversified by the growth quality assurance structure based on the Quality Policy that of foods with function claims and the business expansion we established in 2008. In 2014, we established the “Pharof domestic/overseas group companies, and social needs maceutical Affairs and Quality Assurance Department” by for products with higher quality, Lion provides our customconsolidating the Pharmaceuticals Division and the Quality ers with safe and high-quality products. Assurance Division, in order to build quality assurance and 44 Lion CSR Report 2017 ■ Developing Safe, High-quality Products Product Lion's CSR Planning Organizational Governance ・Marketing research results Market ・Concept analysis ・Target Customer quality level research Product Human Rights Development Building safety and quality into products ❶Function/Performance ❷Usability ❸Safety Labor Practices ❹Product stability ❺Environmental friendliness ❻Appearance (including design) ❼Compliance with laws and regulations and self-imposed standards When starting development, the At the completion of suitability of quality objectives and development, the validity Safety assurance in the matters deemed crucial to development of the developmental manufacturing process The Environment are confirmed. product is confirmed. is confirmed. Manufacturing Quality confirmation under mass production Fair Operating Practices Quality of raw materials, packages, Quality in trial manufacturing is evaluated. Quality control is and containers is confirmed. Market reception is surveyed. performed in each process. Product freshness is managed. Consumer Issues Sales Provision of information about product quality Information on products is made Information is provided to available via displays and samples wholesalers and retailers to at stores, television and ensure communication of product newspapers, our website, and Community Involvement and features and usage to customers. other media. Development Lion CSR Report 2017 45 Consumer Issues ■ Approach to Safety and Reliability ■ Enhancing the Management Structure We evaluate the safety of our products at the raw material, of Advertising package, and container stage and upon actual use so that In 2016, we received a recommendation from the Consumer our customers can use our products without any concern. Affairs Agency with regards to an advertisement for a food for specified health use that it may mislead general consumSafety of Materials ers. We took this incident seriously and implemented meaWe first examine the materials to determine their safety. sures to enhance the management of our advertising activiAs the next step, we determine whether to use a particuties. lar material after evaluating the sample and supplier in Specifically, we are implementing the following measures order to secure quality above a certain level. In using the to prevent the similar incident from happening again: materials, they are classified into drugs, quasi-drugs, cos①Enhancing the system for checking advertising for all metics, food, and miscellaneous, and their quality is inour products including food. spected based on the inspection items and testing meth②Consultation with government agencies such as the ods appropriate for each classification before they are Consumer Affairs Agency as needed. actually accepted for use. ③In-depth training on related regulations to employees Safety During Product Use We will continue to enhance our advertising management to engage in more responsible advertising activities. By considering the various uses of our products as well as product use by vulnerable customers, we perform safety evaluation of our products from the perspective of avoid■ Initiatives to Listen and Respond to Our Customers ing risks at the stage of product design. We use a checklist in our evaluation to determine The inquiries made by customers are registered in a datawhether the product design ensures safety from “normal base under a stringent personal information manageuse” cases to “mistaken use” cases. We evaluate if risks ment structure and then shared at the corporate level via can be alleviated even in the event of “irregular use,” an information sharing system, with the exception of perand also evaluate whether risks can be tolerated. Such sonal information, so that such information can be used evaluations are reflected in our measures to secure prodfor improvements in products and services, and new product safety, such as by providing sufficient warnings as uct development. Among this information, the informaneeded. tion considered to affect customer satisfaction is passed Also, in the Quality Verification Meeting for quality on to top management on a daily basis via a VOC*1 Daily confirmation held with representatives of related diviLetter, and efforts are made to enhance quality by ascersions, we perform checks from the perspective of our custaining the customers’ perspective and through early contomers during their actual use of our products in order to sideration and handling of improvement measures led by prevent damages during product use as well as failure to the product planning departments. In 2016, we sent out confirm all safety check items. 241 VOC Daily Letters. In addition, we widely collect and In preparation for possible problems with our products, analyze consumers’ opinions not only through telephone we have in place an internal system to quickly take and e-mail but also via SNS*2. Furthermore, in order to countermeasures such as product recall. take advantage of customers’ perspectives in our business activities, a specialized internal organization analyzes customers’ voices and proactively disseminates information to respective departments. ＊ 1［VOC］ Voice of Customers ＊ 2［SNS］ Social Networking Service （Facebook, Twitter etc.） ■ Scope of Safety Confirmation Current Status of Recall of Varsan Unforeseeable and Hyosatsu Jet Reckless use unreasonable usage Because the “Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Flying Insects” and “Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Crawling Insects” led to Foreseeable usage, but fire-related accidents, Lion has been voluntarily recallLower risk to defying accepted norms acceptable level (overly excessive use, or ing such products since August 27, 2007. and provide warnings Irregular use use for purposes very different to those As of February 2017, 1.48 million of these products intended) have been recalled (recall rate: 45.7%). We would like to ask our consumers who still have any of these products and reside in Japan to assist in the recall. Mistaken Usage not as intended by Lion but which must be use expected Customer Support for Recall Required of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Sprays Safety Assurance Toll-free: 0120-670-225 Open: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Japan time) Usage as intended (Except Saturdays, Sundays, public holidays, yearend/ Normal use by Lion new year’s holidays, and summer holidays) Self-Declaration as a Consumer-Oriented Company Government agencies, consumer groups, and business groups are jointly promoting companies’ efforts for the engagement in consumer-oriented management. In January 2017, Lion publicized a self-declaration about its intention to actively pursue consumer-oriented management. We report the progress to the Consumer Affairs Agency. [Self-Declaration as Consumer-Oriented Company] (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/consumer-orientation/ 46 Lion CSR Report 2017 Providing Information Useful for Daily Life and Promoting Educational Activities Lion's CSR Creation and provision of lifestyle information that contributes to a healthy and comfortable life The Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories proactively communicates with consumers while aiming to provide more inResearch data Opinions of consumers Organizational Governance formation that contributes to a healthy and comfortable life. Information collection and accumulation Creation of useful information Human Rights The Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories Meisters of Daily Life Transmission Events Publications Information of news dissemination Labor Practices Oral care seminar held at a health-related event Media, etc. Consumers Documents Website ■ Communication with customers using “Lidea,” a website for useful information in daily life Lidea is Lion’s website for delivering lifestyle information and for sharing delightful ideas (tips and information) with consumers that make their daily lives more comfortable and enrich their hearts. Accurate information that is useful for consumers’ daily Lidea Enriching lives and hearts. lives is provided mainly by “Meisters of Daily Life,” specialists with expertise on lifestyle The Environment information. We are enhancing our communication with consumers in various ways by utilizing the information accumulated in Lidea. Publishing a newsletter with Two-way communication with lifestyle information consumers Fair Operating Practices We publish newsletters We create opportunicontaining lifestyle topics ties, such as private based on the analysis of events, to engage with consumer-generated inconsumers to deliver formation, including cusour messages and listomer inquiries, to meet ten to their opinions. consumers’ needs. Party for Lidea fans Lifestyle Tips Consumer Issues Communications through Communicating mass media with overseas consumers We hold seminars Community Involvement and regularly for the reLifestyle information porters from broadthat suits the culture casters, newspapers, and habits of the local and magazines to market is provided on provide lifestyle inour overseas group Development formation. company’s websites. Session to share lifestyle information Website of our group company in Taiwan Lion CSR Report 2017 47 Consumer Issues Offering Products and Information that Contribute to the Development of a Sustainable Society Development of products with less load on the society and environment, and educational activities ■ Promoting 3Rs ■ Example of Environmental Label Attached With a focus to minimize the number of containers and to Products amount of packaging materials we use, we are proactively promoting the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle). ［Lion’s eco-standard］ (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ This container is made with approxi“CHARMY Magica” mately10% (by weight) recycled plas(dishwashing detergents) tic. Reduction of Reuse of Recycle Conserve water with one Usage containers Wastes rinse. Please visit our website for details. Make containers and Increase refill Proactively use packages more compact products recycled materials ■ Promotion of Environmental Communication through Products In order to inform consumers of the importance of enviPlastic wastes can be reduced by ronmental considerations through products, Lion has put approximately 83% by using the “TOP SUPER NANOX” and its refill refill. (Compared with the product an “environmental label” to products that fulfill the (super-concentrated liquid in a 450g container, by weight) “Lion eco-standard” since 2014. An environmental logo laundry detergent) and environmental explanation are printed on the label. The criteria for “Lion eco-standard” are set based on the product life cycle. ［Every Day. For the Earth.］ (Introduction of eco-friendly products) (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ “TOP Platinum Clear” Approximately 67% of the content (organic ingredient) consists of plant material. Please (powder laundry detergent) visit our website for details. Promoting Information Security Efforts for protecting personal information and preventing information leaks In order to thoroughly protect personal information and In 2015, with the aim of enhancing internal informaensure information security, Lion has established the “Bation management systems, we revised the related regulasic Policy of Our Information Management,” the “Infortions. In 2016, we continued to provide e-learning to all mation Management Regulations,” and the “Information employees on the risks of social media, information secuSecurity Regulations” as well as the “Personal Informarity, and the information management systems. tion Management Regulations,” which is in conformance For our overseas group companies, we promote inforwith the “Act on the Protection of Personal Informamation security measures, including the protection of tion.” In addition, we have in place the “Lion Group Sopersonal information, based on local legislations. cial Media Policy” and basic guidelines to be observed to ［Lion Group Social Media Policy］ (Japanese) make sure that we can disseminate appropriate informaURL http://www.lion.co.jp/smp.htm tion regarding our employees’ use of social media (social network service, blogs, etc.). Int r oduc t ion of w e bs it e s In collaboration with our customers (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/ 48 Lion CSR Report 2017 Ideal Vision Lion's CSR Co-existing and Co-prospering with Society and unityand Comm Communities/ Contributing to the Development of Society ement Involvvelopment De in the Areas of Health, Comfort and the Environment Organizational Governance Basic Approach Championing the spirit of our founder Tomijiro Kobusiness, Lion works to solve regional and social issues bayashi, which is to “contribute to society through in cooperation with local residents, government, and business activities,” Lion engages in activities that concitizens’ groups. tribute to a healthy and comfortable society and enviIn addition, by increasing opportunities for each emronment with the aim of being helpful in daily lives by ployee to participate in business-related social and enHuman Rights creating future value for everyone. As it is necessary to vironmental contribution activities, we foster human co-exist with the locations of business facilities and resources that create new values on the basis of a high other related communities in order to continue our level of social and environmental awareness. ■ Lion’s Social and Environmental Contribution Activities Health and Comfort Field Environmental Field Labor Practices Activities by Meisters of Daily Life LDH dental health activities Kidzania Water Resource Educational Activities Conservation Activities for Oral Health Oral Health Event of Educational activities for Tooth Brushing for Children preventive dentistry Forest maintenance activities Educational activities for rainwater utilization Educational (Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest, The Environment activities for Hygiene Educational activities for hand washing and gargling Japan Water Prize, and Japan Society Care Habits on Water Environment) Our Priorities Co-existence Involvement of employees with communities Fair Operating Practices The websites below are all in Japanese. ［Educational Activities for Oral Health］URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ ［Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits］URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/washing/ ［Water Resource Conservation Activities］URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/ Health and Comfort Field Environmental Field Along with provision of products that help build healthy and As the company’s business is based on its deep relationship comfortable living habits, we promote educational activities with water, we place emphasis on water resource conservaConsumer Issues for oral health and hygiene care habits. tion activities, such as promoting society on environmental Our major activities in this field are as follows: educational awareness through initiatives to use rainwater and forest activities for preventive dentistry in which both “professional maintenance activities at Yamanashi City. care” at dental clinics and daily “self-care” are continuously Related Information p51 conducted, Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children, supporting dental health activities for mothers and children, schools, and the elderly, promoted by the Lion Foundation for Community Involvement and Dental Health (LDH), and educational activities for hand washing and gargling implemented mainly by Lion’s employees. Our overseas group companies are also actively engaged in various educational activities. Development Related Information  Highlight01 (p18-23), p50-51 ［Lion Group's Social Contribution Activities］ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/overseas/ Lion CSR Report 2017 49 Community Involvement and Development Enhancing Social Contribution Programs to Create Healthy and Comfortable Living Habits ■ Educational Activities for Oral Health via Foundation Lion has been consistently promoting awareness and educational activities regarding oral health since 1913 as mandated by our philosophy of “returning profit obtained through corporate activities to the society,” which has remained unchanged since the foundation of the company. In 1964, Lion established a foundation called the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (LDH), which was approved by the Ministry of Health and Welfare of Japan (as it was referred to at the time). In 2010, the Cabinet Office approved the change in the foundation’s status to a public interest incorporated foundation, and LDH commenced its operations. Through the three public benefit services shown below, LDH has consistently been coordinating with the Japan Dental Association, universities, and administrations to maintain and promote dental and oral health of consumers. LDH is contributing to society at the forefront of oral health in order to improve the quality of life of all people. Lion gives full support to its activities. A scene from an elementary school which participated in the Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children Three Public Benefit Services of LDH ■ Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children 1.Oral health promotion projects The Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children, Promotion activities of oral health at all life stages started in 1932, is held every year for elementary school 2.Research and investigative project children during a week designated as the “dental/oral Investigation/research into the importance of oral health in prolonging health span, and provision of inhealth week (June 4th to 10th).” In 2016, a total of apformation on research results obtained through busiproximately 90 thousand students of 1,729 elementary ness and other activities to specialists and consumers schools from across Japan and eight countries/regions in 3.Educational and training projects Asia participated in the 73rd event and learned together Holding of various seminars and lectures for health inabout “healthy gums” through online distribution. structors and dental specialists approx. ［The Lion Foundation for Dental Health, a public interest incorporated foundation］ URL http://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/english/ Accumulated total participants: 1.08 million Activities for oral health ■ Main Social Contribution Activities promotion for adults (industry) Education focused on prevention of a of LDH in 2016 periodontal disease and instructions focused on maintenance/improvement Activities for oral health promotion of teeth and oral health provided to for mothers and children employees of various companies Childcare support programs in the approx. area of “dental and oral health” for expectant mothers, infants, preschoolDiagnosed: 27,562 people Accumulated total participants: 2.07 million ers, and their parents Activities for oral health promotion Participants: 685 infants and preschoolers for the elderly (From 2007) and 716 parents approx. Provision of supports to help maintain oral functions to enable eating with Accumulated total participants: 1.14 million one’s own teeth and mouth over a long time in the future approx. Activities for oral health promotion for school children Participants: 17,110 people Accumulated total participants: 27,000 Face-to-face educational activities with students and their parents and Treatment activities provision of support for health teachImplementation of highly-professioners al, quality treatment and preventive Participants: 7,105 students and 2,407 dentistry activities based on the conhealth teachers cept of risk control dentistry* approx. approx. Accumulated total participants: 23.27 million Diagnosed: 11,435 people Accumulated total participants: 1.84 million Accumulated totals are total numbers since establishment of the LDH (1964) *Risk Control Dentistry Customized dental treatment in which care methods are changed according to the risks of tooth decay or periodontal disease of individuals 50 Lion CSR Report 2017 ■ Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits Lion has been working on activities to have proper hand washing and gargling habits take root mainly with the Care for Health and Hygiene Lion's CSR “KireiKirei” brand, aiming at maintaining the healthy and During Emergency comfortable lifestyles of people. With a policy of “employees’ voluntarily conducting activiLion produced a pamphlet titled ties,” Lion is aiming that 100% of employees will participate “Care for Health and Hygiene During in hand washing educational activities by 2050. During the Emergency,” providing information period between 2012 and 2016, 571 employees (22%) took on health and hygiene in a disastrous part in the activities. situation in which it is important to Organizational Governance We conducted educational activities for hand washing at pay special attention to health condikindergartens, preschools and public facilities in the areas tions. where our business facilities are located across Japan, IshinoWe will continue our efforts in esmaki City in Miyagi Prefecture which is an earthquake disastablishing the habit of hygiene and ter area and closely connected to our founder, and Sakaide cleanliness. City in Kagawa Prefecture where “KireiKirei” hand soaps are “Care for Health and Hygiene During Emergency” Pamphlet manufactured. In addition, hand washing educational activi（Japanese） ties in kindergartens and preschools are conducted jointly URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/emergency-care/ with our business partners and are also included as part of corporate training programs for younger employees, which help improve our employees’ awareness for community inHuman Rights volvement. Hand washing educational activities are also conducted in Asian countries where “KireiKirei” products are Int r oduc t ion of w e bs it e s sold. Lion’s Social Contribution Activities (Japanese) We also work with local governments. Since 2014, Sakaide http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/ City and Lion Chemical Co., Ltd., the production base of “KireiKirei” hand soap, have been jointly promoting the Lion’s Initiatives to Support the Reconstruction “KireiKirei City-Sakaide” Project, aiming to penetrate and Work after the Great East Japan Earthquake (Japanese) establish hygiene practices and habits among the citizens of http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/reconstruction/ Sakaide. Labor Practices ［“KireiKirei City-Sakaide” Project (hand washing education activities) ］ (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/washing Related Information  Highlight01 （p18-23） Water Resource Conservation Activities Through the act of “washing,” we have always been deeply involved with water. Lion is actively involved in forest mainteThe Environment nance activities and in the promotion and raising awareness of the utilization of rainwater, which is a familiar water resource, as part of our water resource conservation activities. Forest Maintenance Activities at the Rainwater Utilization Lion Forest in Yamanashi Ideas Contest 2016 Since 2006, Lion has engaged in improving the forest, which is a water The “Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest” has been held since 2011 source, at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi for the purpose of increasing with the aim of having elementary and middle school students employees’ environmental across Japan think about ways to use rainwater and realize its imFair Operating Practices awareness. In 2016, a total portance. In addition to honoring individuals for their achieveof 157 employees participatments, rainwater tanks ed in the forest maintenance are awarded as a group activities as part of the new incentive prize to two employee training and volgroups which submitted untary forest improvement many outstanding piecactivities (which took place es. three times). Number of employees who participated in the activities in total 1,253 employees Number of entries in total 38,821 Consumer Issues ［Lion Forest in Yamanashi］ (Japanese) ［Lion Rain’s Gift Forum］(Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/forest/ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/rain/ Plant Tours We regard plant tours as an important contact between customers and Lion. In order to have Community Involvement and customers feel familiar with Lion’s products and see our operations placing highest priority on safety and environmental conservation, we welcome many visitors to the plants every year. Plants Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi Total Details of Number of 88 95 38 90 311 Development Plant Tours study tours in 2016 Study tour 2,217 2,164 838 2,501 7,720 participants Plant tour at Odawara Plant Lion CSR Report 2017 51 T h i rd P a r t y R e v ie w Lion has contributed to the establishment of good habmental goals set in “Eco Vision 2020,” and is exits which are necessary for all people, through its prodpected to contribute to the bottoming-up of indusucts and business activities. CSR initiatives inevitably try-wide efforts by accelerating its activities as have relevance to manufacturers of products, associated much as possible and setting new and more aggrespersons/organizations, and all users since it is necessary sive targets. For the areas of consumer issues and to overlook the value chain throughout the business. In community involvement/development, Lion is enthis report, Lion identifies group-wide material CSR isgaged in wider activities and deeper communicasues and provides comprehensive information of activitions through its main businesses. Readers are enties inside and outside Japan to facilitate better undercouraged to visit the “Lidea” website and Lion’s CSR standing. website to experience them. In Highlight 01, detailed information on educational As Lion’s business depends on natural capital, special activities for hygiene care habits in various countries are consideration should be given to global initiatives on illustrated so that readers can be more familiar with human rights and sustainable procurement of raw masuch activities and practices. Lion’s hand washing activiterials across its value chain. Accordingly, during the ties introduced in this section incorporate different “Vision 2020” V-2 Period, its medium-term management ideas to encourage young children to wash their hands plan, Lion is working hard to solve the issues and create voluntarily and habitually by explaining the importance new values based on Sustainable Development Goals and fun of hand washing, based on habitual differences (SDGs). This year’s report shows the achievement level of and characteristics across countries and regions. From 2016 against 2017 targets for CSR’s material issues, but these activities, I could see that Lion is promoting social more notably, it has been expanded to include more incontribution activities through its business. formation related to overseas activities, due to inHighlight 02 demonstrates that Lion is serious about creased sharing of CSR related information compared to supporting its employees by introducing support prothe previous year. With better understanding of overgrams that help maintain the work-life balance of emseas risks and more collaborations with overseas offices, ployees raising children and employees providing nurswhich have led to more transparency in management, ing care for family. Among these programs, the newly continuous further enhancement of these efforts will introduced Short Hours Flextime System is a measure create more value for the entire group. that is bold and forward-looking. While most compaI believe that both healthy earth and healthy people nies maintain an upper limit, Lion’s new system is availare essential to maintain people’s lives and businesses. able for employees as long as they need it for nursing As for CSR management, it needs to develop new sercare. While the majority of Japanese female workers vices required at the time and be bold enough to challeave their jobs after childbirth, Lion’s mindfulness tolenge today’s tough issues for the future. Since its wards its employees is also proven by the fact that foundation, Lion has been responding to these issues 100% of its female employees return to work after child through its business, and now it is ready to leap forcare leave. This is because of Lion’s strong support for ward to the next stage by creating new values from a employees raising children and returning to work. Li“New Combination” of product and experience. By acon’s efforts in developing employees’ work-life balance tively listening to employees and customers all over the and securing diversity in the workplace including the world and understanding various stories in their backestablishment of a special subsidiary that promotes emgrounds, Lion will successfully establish its CSR manployment of people with disabilities are also worth agement and become a greater company that spreads praising the spirit of compassion for others. Among many environmental and social issues, water resource conservation is and will remain a serious one on a global level. It is important for companies to act locally and consider every step of their entire business process from product planEnvironmental Expert, ning/development to manufacturing and from use Ethical Life Advisor of water to discharge. In Highlight 03, full-scale operation of a water recycling system in Chiba Manami Plant is introduced. It is a very efficient system with a huge potential that not only purifies waste water Yamaguchi generated in the production process but also recyRepresentative Director of FEM Co., Ltd Chairperson of Environmental Business cles it to reduce total water consumption. Including Research Institute this case, Lion has achieved many of its environDirector of Japan Ethical Initiatives 52 Lion CSR Report 2017 From Lion Under our founding sprit of “Benefiting Society through Regarding water resource conservation, we received Business Activities,” Lion has always been aware of its precious advice that we should act locally and give expected role in society and has been involved in solving greater considerations to each step of our entire busisocial issues that change with the times. ness process from planning/development to production Going forward, it is essential that CSR is integrated and use of products. We are promoting water resource with management in order for us to contribute to the conservation activities that cover the entire lifecycle of ongoing development of society through our businessour products, from planning/development of water-saves. We have identified material group-wide CSR issues ing products and recycling of waste water in our plant, and are monitoring the progress based on the medito educational activities to convey the importance of um-term targets linked to the management plan. water to the society. As favorably evaluated in the Third-Party Review, we The Review also suggested that we set more ambihave enhanced the reporting of the Group-wide CSR tious environmental targets. Accordingly, we will develactivities by setting a structure with which information op long-term environmental goals, including the upis regularly shared with overseas group companies. We grade of existing targets that have already been will continue to strengthen our CSR management, while attained, in harmony with the social landscape such as aiming to understand the CSR-related risks better and the Paris Agreement and SDGs, in order to contribute to to reinforce social cooperation. the improvement of people’s lives. Our efforts in establishing a healthy work-life balance We will continue our activities to secure healthy and for employees and securing diversity in the workplace comfortable lifestyles for people in their future, and we also received positive assessment. Especially, the newly are determined to fulfill our responsibilities in society introduced Short Hours Flextime System which is availwith precise understanding of the social issues through able for employees as long as they need for nursing care, dialogues and cooperation with the stakeholders. was described as a bold forward-looking challenge. We will further enhance the system so that employees in different life stages can benefit from it, and create a working environment in which employees can easily access to the system. We aim to establish an environment in which Director in charge of CSR our employees, playing a central role of the CSR management, will be able to develop a healthy balance between work and nursing care/childcare, and can work Kenjiro without anxiety. Kobayashi Editorial Note Lion is in the process of establishing a Group-wide structure for our CSR activities, including overseas group companies. In our CSR Report 2017 and our website, we provide broader information on our overseas CSR activities compared to the previous year. For example, the 2016 Highlights “Lion 当社はグローバルな Group Educational Activities for Hygiene Care Habits in 社会的責任投資指標である FTSE4Good Global Indexに Japan and Overseas,” introduces hand washing educational 選定されています。 activities through the ”KireKirei” hand soap conducted in Asian countries. For detailed information on Lion’s social contribution activities in different countries/regions in Asia, please visit our website. Lion CSR Report 2017 53 Published by Lion Corporation Published on: June 30, 2017 To be published next on: June, 2018 Inquiries CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Japan Website (Japanese): http://www.lion.co.jp/ Tel: 03-3621-6611 Fax: 03-3625-8625 Website (English) : http://www.lion.co.jp/en/ Tel: +81-3-3621-6611 Fax: +81-3-3625-8625
