ABN AMRO Group N.V. Integrated Annual Report 2016 ﻿﻿﻿ About this report We create Introduction value for This Integrated Annual Report presents the developments relating to ABN AMRO Clients Strategy that took place in 2016. In addition to our financial and non-financial performance, Employees you will also find information on how we create value for our stakeholders. Society at large Business See our Value Creation Model Investors p 22 2 Introduction 9 Strategy 27 91 Business Risk, funding & Risk, funding & capital capital Notes to the reader 2 From stakeholders Operating environment 28 Introduction to Risk, Leadership to strategy 10 funding Key figures 3 Group performance 33 & capital management 92 Mapping out the path 12 Profile 4 Business performance 57 Risk, funding & Strategy and culture 14 capital management 95 Message from the CEO 6 Responsibility Governance What matters most 16 statement 90 Risk, funding & ABN AMRO shares 8 capital review 122 How we create and share value 22 Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures 189 Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 ﻿﻿﻿ New in this report See also: Introduction Integrated reporting principles have Our Annual Report supplement ‘Initiatives in 2016’ been further incorporated into the report abnamro.com/annualreportmagazine2016 Strategy We report on our approach to material topics Our website as identified by our stakeholders abnamro.com/annualreport EY has performed a limited assurance engagement on the disclosures related Giving Voice to Value to these material topics Business Supplement to the Annual Report Initiatives in 2016 We enhanced connectivity by including links to information (online and offline) 205 221 249 369 Leadership Governance Annual Financial Other Risk, funding & capital Statements 2016 Managing Board 205 Corporate Consolidated income Independent auditor’s Leadership Governance 222 statement 250 report on financial Supervisory Board 209 statements 370 Remuneration 236 Consolidated statement Report of the of comprehensive Assurance report Supervisory Board 211 Employee income 251 of the independent representation 244 auditor 377 Governance Consolidated statement of financial position 252 Our external reporting landscape 379 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 253 Definitions of important terms 380 Annual Financial Statements Consolidated statement of cash flows 255 Abbreviations 386 Notes to the Annual Cautionary Financial Statements 257 statements 388 Statutory financial Enquiries 389 statements ABN AMRO Group N.V. 361 Other Other information 366 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 2 Introduction / Notes to the reader Introduction Notes to the reader ​This is the Annual Report for 2016 of ABN AMRO, which consists of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and its consolidated Strategy entities. The Annual Report consists of the Managing Board report1, Report of the Supervisory Board and Annual Financial Statements. The financial information contained in this Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS). It also complies with the financial reporting requirements included in Title 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, where applicable. Some chapters Business in the Risk, funding & capital section of this Annual Report contain audited information and are part of the Annual Financial Statements. Audited information in these sections is labelled as ‘audited’ in the respective headings. In this Annual Report, we disclose and explain our material financial and non-financial results, strategy, governance, external developments and the risks and opportunities ABN AMRO faces. Risk, funding & capital As with last year’s report, the International Integrated Reporting Framework has been used for this Annual Report and ABN AMRO has taken further steps towards integrated reporting. Furthermore, we have integrated a materiality matrix and the most material financial and non-financial topics into this report. Disclosures on material topics are prepared in accordance with the (DMA) Disclosure on Management Approach as described in GRI G4. Further details are provided elsewhere in this report under Reporting landscape. Our independent auditor, EY, has performed a limited assurance engagement on selected disclosures, which are labelled ‘<limited assurance>’ in their respective headings. Also refer to the section entitled Assurance report of the independent auditor. Leadership Capital metrics and some risk exposures for 2016 and comparative figures for 2015 are reported under the Basel III (CRD IV/ CRR) framework. Some sections in this Annual Report contain information according to Pillar 3 (as part of the CRR) and Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) requirements. These sections are labelled ‘Pillar 3’ and/or ‘EDTF’ in their respective headings. Governance The contents of this Annual Report comply with the Financial Supervision Act, Corporate Governance Code and Dutch Banking Code. This report is presented in euros (EUR), which is ABN AMRO’s presentation currency, rounded to the nearest million, and sets out the results for the entire ABN AMRO organisation worldwide (unless otherwise stated). All financial year-end averages in this report are based on month-end figures. Management does not believe that these month-end Annual Financial Statements averages present trends that are materially different from those that would be presented by daily averages. Certain figures in this report may not tally exactly due to rounding. In addition, certain percentages in this document have been calculated using rounded figures. To provide a better understanding of the underlying results, ABN AMRO has adjusted its reported results in the Financial Review, presented in accordance with EU IFRS, for defined special items. For more information refer to the reconciliation between reported and underlying results in the Financial Review. For a download of this report or more information, please visit us at abnamro.com/ir or contact us at investorrelations@nl.abnamro.com. Other 1 The Managing Board report consists of the sections Strategy, Business, Risk, funding & capital Management, Leadership (Managing Board chapter) and Governance. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 3 Introduction / Key figures Introduction Key figures Net Promoter Score Strategy Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking 45 30 15 6 Business 0 -1 -2 -4 -15 -15 Clients -30 -23 -45 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Risk, funding & capital Employee engagement1 Gender diversity at the top (in %) (in %) 100 30 82 25 80 76 24 23 60 18 40 12 20 6 Employees 2015 2016 2015 2016 Leadership 1 2016 score based on revised measurement method. For more details on employee engagement, please see 'Employee engagement' in the Group performance section of this report. Dow Jones Sustainability Trust Monitor AFM/NvB Index ranking (scale 1 to 5) (scale 1 to 100) Governance 100 5 87 80 78 4 3.1 3.1 60 3 40 2 Society at large 20 1 2015 2016 2015 2016 Annual Financial Statements CET1 (fully-loaded) Underlying return on equity (in %) (in %) 25 15 12.0 11.8 20 12 17.0 15.5 15 9 10 6 5 3 Investors 2015 2016 2015 2016 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 4 Introduction / Profile Introduction Profile ABN AMRO is a leading full-service bank with a transparent and Strategy client-driven business model, a moderate risk profile, a clean and strong balance sheet with predominantly traditional banking products, and a solid capital position and strong funding profile. We serve retail, private and corporate banking clients, with a primary focus on the Netherlands Business and with selective operations internationally. Geography Number of employees Risk, funding & capital Europe FTEs at 31 December 2016 21,664 The Netherlands: Amsterdam FTEs by business segment FTEs by ge Leadership 42 5,266 2,69 7,416 Governance 3,844 5,138 Retail Banking Corporate Banking The Net Private Banking Group Functions Rest of Annual Financial Statements FTEs by business segment FTEs by geography 234 424 800 5,266 B  ranch or representation office 2,699 7,416 Rest of the world 3,844 Australia: Sydney Singapore 5,138 17,507 Brazil: São Paulo United Arab Emirates: Dubai China: Shanghai, Hong Kong United States: Dallas, New York, Other Japan: Tokyo Chicago Retail Banking Corporate Banking The Netherlands USA Rest of Russia: Moscow Private Banking Group Functions Rest of Europe Asia the world ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 5 Introduction / Profile Introduction ABN AMRO Strategy Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Group Functions Business Leading position in Market leader in Established business partner TOPS (Technology, Operations the Netherlands the Netherlands of the Dutch corporate sector & Property Services) Principal bank for 21%1 Ranked 4th in France, 3rd in 70,000 commercial and Finance including of the Dutch population Germany and the eurozone5 international clients with ALM/Treasury and Tax Market share of 20%2 in Solid position in selected annual turnover exceeding RM&S (Risk Management the small business segment countries in Asia and the EUR 1 million across & Strategy) #2 position3 in savings Middle East 15 defined sectors PR&I (People, Regulations Risk, funding & capital (including Private Banking) Serves over 100,000 clients Clientand capability-led & Identity) #14 in new mortgage production Present in 11 countries with international strategy that Group Audit 5,000,000 retail clients more than 50 branches focuses on three specialities: Corporate Office 300,000 small businesses Fully integrated financial ECT Clients, Clearing and Seamless omni-channel advice and a broad array of Asset Based Finance distribution with a nationwide services focused on wealth International presence network of 221 branches, structuring, wealth protection in the key financial Advice & Service Centres and wealth transfer and logistical hubs and 24/7 internet and Key figures p 68 Key figures p 77 mobile banking Leadership Key figures p 59 1 GfK online tracker, 2016. 2 TNS NIPO, 2016. 3 Calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2016. 4 Calculated based on DNB Domestic MFI statistics and internal analyses, H1 2016 figures. 5 BCG global wealth management survey 2014 & annual reports. Operating income Governance Based on underlying figures (in millions) 8,588 Financial review p 50 Annual Financial Statements By type of income By business segment By geography (in %) (in %) (in %) 1 7 9 23 11 20 37 46 3,848 3,848 3,848 73 5,138 15 16 80 Other Net interest income Retail Banking Corporate Banking The Netherlands USA, Asia and Net fee and commission income Private Banking Group Functions Rest of Europe rest of the world Other operating income ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 6 Introduction / Message from the CEO Introduction Message from the CEO Strategy I am pleased to report that ABN AMRO had a good year. We continued to fulfil our promises and commitments to our various stakeholders and assisted many clients while delivering solid results, both financial and non-financial. Business Risk, funding & capital Clients come first At the same time, banking is a people business and we We are working hard every day to give clients the best recognise the importance of personal contact and realise possible service. The appreciation of our clients is reflected that innovation is not just about technology. In this respect, in, among other things, a higher Net Promoter Score we are also innovating our culture by introducing Agile for all business lines. Our clients fared well as the Dutch principles across the organisation. Our culture further economy continued its recovery in 2016. We achieved evolved in other ways as well. We continued to invest in growth in three of our major loan books. Firstly, we extensive training and ongoing personal and professional were the number one provider of new mortgages in development programmes to help our employees make the Netherlands for the second consecutive year, and a difference for our clients every day. Leadership our mortgage portfolio grew for the first time since 2010. Secondly, the SME loan portfolio in the Netherlands is Our efforts to put clients first in everything we do were growing again after years of decline. And lastly, we grew recognised by various organisations in 2016. ABN AMRO our international corporate loan portfolio. Our global MeesPierson was named ‘Best Private Banking Services sector-based approach for ECT Clients is being rolled out Overall’ in the Netherlands by Euromoney, and ABN AMRO to Natural Resources, Renewable Energy, Food Supply Private Banking was awarded Best Overall European Governance Chain and Utilities and we have started onboarding new Private Bank and Best Private Bank – Client Service clients in these sectors. The results show that our bank by the Wealth Briefing European Awards. can achieve growth both in the Netherlands and abroad. Lasting value for all our stakeholders Wide-ranging innovation I am particularly proud of our achievements on the We are devoting constant attention to innovation across sustainability front. We made funding available to help Annual Financial Statements the organisation. Our Digital Banking unit supports our clients make their real estate more sustainable and drive to be at the forefront of technological developments. developed the first official Green Loan for that purpose. Our Digital Impact Fund invests in companies to co-create With well over 50% of our loan portfolio in housing and products and technologies that enhance our service to real estate, we are in a good position to make a meaningful clients. We are very active in this area – from experimenting contribution to the transition to sustainable properties in our Innovation Centre and exploring the power of in the Netherlands. We will encourage all our clients to blockchain technology to collaborating with fintechs accelerate this change and will facilitate their efforts. and positioning our digital bank MoneYou to offer more We also continue to reduce the environmental footprint than just savings and mortgage products. of our own operations. Our head office in Amsterdam won the 2016 BREEAM award for being the most sustainable Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 7 Introduction / Message from the CEO Introduction (61.8% excluding restructuring costs). These initiatives should lead to a leaner and more agile organisation while Strategy freeing up investments for innovation and growth. The underlying ROE was 11.8% and excludes a EUR 271 million provision we have taken for the reassessment of interest rate derivatives sold to SME clients. The reported net profit (after this provision) amounted to EUR 1,806 million. Based on this figure we propose a final dividend of Business EUR 0.44 per share, bringing the total dividend per share Kees van over 2016 to EUR 0.84. This is a payout ratio of 45% of Dijkhuizen the reported net profit, and an increase of 4% compared CEO with 2015. The capital position was further strengthened, which is reflected in a 1.5 percentage point increase in the (fully-loaded) CET1 ratio to 17.0%. Risk, funding & capital in-use office building in the world, and we started building a fully circular pavilion in 2016, scheduled to open its doors We recently announced a new management structure. this year. More examples of how we are creating sustainable Going forward we will have a statutory Executive Board value for our stakeholders are highlighted throughout and an Executive Committee. The statutory Executive this report. Board consists of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and the Chief Risk Officer Strategy (CRO). The Executive Committee consists of the members In the second half of 2016, we fine-tuned our strategic of the Executive Board, representatives from four business priorities, updated one of our financial targets and lines (Retail Banking, Commercial Banking, Corporate & Leadership announced plans to carry out a cost-saving programme Institutional Banking and Private Banking) and two roles in the years up to 2020. Our pledge to be client-driven with bank-wide responsibilities (Innovation & Technology and maintain a moderate risk profile still stands. We will and Transformation & HR). This structure will make continue to invest in the future and we aim to achieve ABN AMRO more efficient and more client-focused as sustainable growth – meaning we will be selective in our the business lines are more strongly represented at pursuit of growth, focusing on sectors in which we have senior executive level. Governance proven expertise. As for our financial targets, we now target a cost/income ratio in the range of 56-58% by 2020. I would like to thank our staff for their hard work and The targets for the CET1 ratio (11.5-13.5%), ROE (10-13%) dedication to our clients and the bank, and our clients for and dividend payout ratio (50% over 2017) will remain their business in this increasingly competitive industry. unchanged until we have more insight into the impact of I would also like to express my gratitude to the four Basel IV. members of the Managing Board who have Annual Financial Statements departed in the past few months. Mr Gerrit Zalm, Financial results for 2016 Ms Caroline Princen, Mr Chris Vogelzang and The underlying net profit for the year was EUR 2,076 million, Mr Joop Wijn made valuable contributions to the or 8% higher than in 2015. Profitability improved on the bank during an important stage of its history. back of growth in the loan book (mortgages, SME and corporate loans) and significantly lower impairments. As a result of the restructuring charges taken for costKees van Dijkhuizen saving initiatives, the cost/income ratio rose to 65.9% CEO of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 8 Introduction / ABN AMRO shares Introduction ABN AMRO shares Key developments of depositary receipts representing such shares) with Strategy Between 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, an interest in ABN AMRO Group of 3% or more, other than ABN AMRO’s share price (depositary receipts) rose 2% while STAK AAG and NLFI. More information on STAK AAG the STOXX Europe 600 Bank declined 8%. In November 2016, and NLFI is provided in the Governance section NLFI (‘Stichting administratiekantoor beheer financiële of this report. Business instellingen’) completed an accelerated book building offering of 65 million depositary receipts (representing Share price development (in %) approximately 7% of total issued share capital), which are now listed on Euronext Amsterdam. 140% Listing information and substantial holdings 120% Risk, funding & capital A total of 281.2 million shares are currently held by 100% STAK AAG (‘Stichting Administratiekantoor Continuïteit 80% ABN AMRO Group’), which subsequently issued depositary receipts representing such shares. The depositary receipts 60% are listed on Euronext. The depositary receipts trade under ISIN code ‘NL0011540547’, Reuters ticker ‘ABNd.AS’ Nov 2015 Dec 2016 and Bloomberg ticker ‘ABN:NA’. ABN AMRO STOXX Europe 600 Banks Index Aside from STAK AAG, the remaining issued share capital Amsterdam Exchange Index Leadership is held by NLFI. As per 31 December 2016 ABN AMRO is Source: S&P Global Market Intelligence. not aware of any current or potential shareholders (or owners (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Share count Total shares outstanding/issued and paid-up shares 940 940 Governance of which held by NLFI 659 724 of which listed (in the form of depositary receipts) 281 216 as a percentage of total outstanding shares 30% 23% Average number of shares 940 940 Average diluted number of shares 940 940 Key indicators per share (EUR) Underlying earnings per share1 2.16 2.03 Annual Financial Statements Reported earnings per share1 1.87 2.03 Shareholder's equity per share 19.08 17.63 Tangible shareholder's equity per share 18.82 17.35 Dividend per share2 0.84 0.81 Share price development (EUR) Closing price (end of period) 21.05 20.67 High (during the period) 22.12 20.80 Low (during the period) 14.02 18.00 Market capitalisation (end of period, in billions) 19.79 19.43 Valuation indicators (end of period) Price/Earnings 9.5x 10.1x Price/Tangible book value 1.1x 1.2x Other Dividend payout ratio2 45% 40% 1 Underlying/reported profit for the period excluding reserved coupons for AT 1 Capital securities (net of tax) and results attributable to non-controlling interests divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. 2 Dividend per share and payout ratio subject to approval of the annual General Meeting in May 2017. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Introduction Strategy Strategy In a challenging economy and changing operating environment, our strategy should support our pledge to our stakeholders. This section highlights key trends, developments and our stakeholder Business insights. These serve as input for our strategy, purpose and how we ultimately create value for our stakeholders. 10 From stakeholders to strategy 16 What matters most Risk, funding & capital 12 Mapping out the path 22 How we create and share value Leadership 14 Strategy and culture Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 10 Strategy / From stakeholders to strategy Introduction From stakeholders to strategy This section of the report describes our stakeholders’ needs, our pledge to our Strategy stakeholders, and our strategy and purpose. Our pledge is to create lasting stakeholder value and to make a sustainable contribution to society. To achieve this, we listen closely to our different stakeholders – clients, employees, society and investors. Business In a world that is defined by constantly changing trends, We have updated our Value Creation Model and strategy we want to understand what matters most to our with the insights gained from this assessment. We have stakeholders now and how their needs will change going also developed new non-financial KPIs to help us measure forward. We do this by engaging in a dialogue with our our progress. Risk, funding & capital stakeholders, and in 2016 we conducted a materiality assessment with them. Stakeholders Leadership Clients Employees Society at large Investors What they expect Governance A bank that excels beyond An employer that empowers An engaged financial A trustworthy bank that its core business and and offers opportunities to institution that invests produces healthy, delivers valuable expertise, make the most of people’s in the future sustainably sustainable returns. any time, any place. potential. and responsibly. Annual Financial Statements What we promise To act in your best interests, Together we are ABN AMRO. We are engaged in society We pursue sustainable we listen carefully, deliver We empower our employees and are committed growth and offer attractive valuable expertise and offer to make use of their full to investing in the future. returns based on a moderate seamless experiences. potential and develop risk profile. themselves. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 11 Strategy / From stakeholders to strategy Introduction Strategy towards 2020 The strategic choice to be an organisation that is clientStrategy 2016 was an eventful year – for the financial industry, for driven, while maintaining a moderate risk profile, remains our stakeholders and for our bank. It was a year in which unchanged. Changes in the needs and behaviour of our we took numerous steps in our ongoing development. stakeholders and technological, competitive and regulatory Among other things, ABN AMRO was listed on the stock developments pose threats, but they also offer opportunities. Business exchange in late 2015 and another 7% of the shares in the To take full advantage of these opportunities, we have company were sold on 17 November 2016, we bolstered updated our plans regarding digitalisation, innovation our digital service offering, we pressed ahead with and growth, resulting in a number of strategic objectives innovation, and we saw our Net Promoter Score improve. towards 2020. We developed these plans based on our profile: we are a relationship-driven, knowledgeable and digitally savvy bank, active in Northwest Europe and with Risk, funding & capital expertise in selected sectors globally. PURPOSE Leadership Creating space for dreams and ambitions Driven by passion, guided by expertise Governance Annual Financial Statements The foundation of our purpose Throughout their lives, our clients strive to fulfil their In today’s fast-paced world, people are increasingly dreams and ambitions, large and small. To do this, they looking for meaning and want to be part of something need the freedom to act. We use our financial expertise bigger. In response to this need and to other relevant to empower our clients to take charge of their lives and trends, we have taken the first steps toward becoming pursue their goals. We are part of a powerful network a purpose-driven organisation. which we use to connect people and organisations. That is how we contribute to a sustainable society – by helping people achieve their goals, based on responsible Other financial decisions, and inspiring them to develop and grow, knowing that growth is not always about ‘more’. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 12 Strategy / Mapping out the path Introduction Mapping out the path As part of society, we are attuned to what is going on in our environment. Strategy It is our responsibility to respond to societal trends and external developments and to prepare for the future as effectively as possible. We have introduced a scenario planning framework to help us anticipate how developments and challenges we might face in the years up to 2020 and beyond could affect our business. Business Risk, funding & capital g din ev pon Leadership elo Res pm ents ra p id d ly to d trends an Governance Key trends: changing faster than ever Annual Financial Statements Changing Increasing Disruption and Changing client regulation new entrants monetary behaviour conditions ▶▶Self-directed, demanding ▶▶Capital and liquidity ▶▶Digital innovators ▶▶Potential macroeconomic and knowledgeable requirements (e.g. Basel IV) with increasing speed and geopolitical headwind ▶▶Seamless banking anywhere ▶▶Regulation of markets, and agility ▶▶Low interest rate environment & anytime products, pricing, product ▶▶Rapid technological ▶▶Flat yield curve Other ▶▶Social media and connectivity sustainability and KYC developments ▶▶Dutch economy performing well For more information about trends and external developments, see the Operating environment section. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 13 Strategy / Mapping out the path Introduction Preparing for the future: scenario planning We are exploring what the future of the financial industry Strategy Our scenario planning framework helps us determine in Western Europe might look like in the next five to at an early stage how various trends and developments eight years. We have analysed trends that could influence could impact our business model and performance should the way the future of the financial sector will unfold. they transpire. The framework is based on two key The most impactful themes are related to technology: Business uncertainties: the competitive landscape and economic constant connectivity will become the standard and a wide development. We applied this framework bank-wide, variety of new technologies will revolutionise the financial with different teams at various levels of the organisation landscape. Our conclusion is that changing client needs exploring its implications. and technology are key trends and should play a role in each scenario. Moreover, three overarching trends emerged: competition (new entrants), economic development Risk, funding & capital (low interest rates) and regulation (intensified). Scenario planning framework Economy HEALTHY GROWING Future-proof moves As we frame our goals, we also define important actions we can take regardless of the broader path we choose. Leadership These actions will benefit us in any scenario and form Competition Competition CHALLENGING DISRUPTIVE the input for our strategy. STAGNATING Governance Economy Annual Financial Statements We have also performed an analysis of the environment in presented in this section. We have updated our plans and which we operate. The main drawbacks and strengths are strategic objectives based on the outcome of this research. Drawbacks Strengths ▶▶Large exposure to and dependence on the Dutch economy ▶▶Leading full-service bank ▶▶In-depth sector expertise ▶▶Growth opportunities in the Dutch home market limited ▶▶Strong brands ▶▶Professional workforce ▶▶Solid but complex IT landscape following integration of ABN AMRO ▶▶Client-driven ▶▶Strong mobile and and Fortis Bank Nederland business model online capabilities Other ▶▶Suboptimal scale of businesses in a few countries ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 14 Strategy / Strategy and culture Introduction Strategy and culture At the heart of our strategy is our long-term strategic foundation. In our updated strategy, Strategy our ambitions to improve profitability and to pursue selective international growth have been combined in our commitment to achieve sustainable growth. We have also defined four medium-term priorities to support us in pursuing our strategy. The purpose and strategy are the anchors of our culture. Our strategic initiatives reflect our focus and priorities and are underpinned by specific actions for each initiative. Business PURPOSE Risk, funding & capital Creating space for dreams and ambitions Driven by passion, guided by expertise LONG-TERM STRATEGIC FOUNDATION Leadership Client-driven Invest in the future Moderate risk profile Sustainable growth MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Governance Bring Enhance Innovate Deliver expertise the client & grow fast experience Annual Financial Statements To help us achieve our medium-term strategic priorities, we will undertake the following activities: Bring expertise Enhance the client experience Innovate & grow Deliver fast ▶▶Open up our network ▶▶Be digitally savvy, be where ▶▶Truly innovate with ▶▶Simplify our organisation ▶▶Strengthen our sector the client needs us new propositions ▶▶Become agile and expertise ▶▶Invest in new technologies ▶▶Grow in Northwest Europe involve clients in ▶▶Craft personalised and reshape our IT landscape and in selected sectors globally product development solutions ▶▶Be quick and transparent ▶▶Be distinctive and introduce ▶▶Accelerate change Other new digital innovators and our time-to-market ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 15 Strategy / Strategy and culture Introduction Long-term strategic foundation Culture of change Strategy Clients want a bank that simply does its job well and Our future revolves around our clients. Connected, ­ that goes the extra mile for them. A bank that knows its open-minded and fast; creative and dynamic; full of business and provides the best service. To address our trust and empowering; engaged and committed to changing environment, we have set our priorities for the cooperation – we can be all these things if we have Business years up to 2020. The core of our strategy remains the the guts to explore and change. Today’s world calls same: we will continue to be a ‘relationship-driven bank’ for less hierarchy and more effective collaboration. while ranking among the best on the digital front; a bank We want fewer checks, more empowerment and with a strong position in Northwest Europe and serving more meaningful relationships. selected sectors worldwide. We are client-driven, we invest in the future, we have a moderate risk profile We recently announced a new management structure Risk, funding & capital and we are committed to sustainable growth. designed to make our bank even more client-focused, agile and efficient. The new structure, which includes The Business section describes which activities relating an Executive Board and an Executive Committee, to each strategic priority are being developed and creates more dedication to the business activities implemented at each business line and also looks back and a stronger client focus. In addition, the management on our achievements over 2016. layer below the Executive Committee will be reduced significantly. Leadership Trusted Core values We believe trust is about establishing and maintaining Governance Our core values are an expression lasting relationships. of our culture and a firm promise Professional to all employees. We understand banking and strive to improve ourselves every day. They describe how we treat each Annual Financial Statements Ambitious other and the environment. We are always stretching our boundaries and striving to achieve more for our stakeholders. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 16 Strategy / What matters most Introduction What matters most A We strive to manage the impact of our activities and balance the interests of all Strategy our stakeholders. To gain insight into how our stakeholders view the bank’s ability to create value in relation to its long-term strategy, ABN AMRO has performed a thorough materiality assessment for the bank as a whole. Business Determining our most material topics Governance The analysis revealed what topics our stakeholders Management of material topics follows the regular consider to be the most material, or relevant, to governance procedures as described in the Governance ABN AMRO’s ability to create value. With the support of section. The Managing Board is ultimately responsible for Risk, funding & capital an external agency, we consulted our stakeholders in managing the material topics and is monitored by the detail. We started out by asking external stakeholders to Supervisory Board. Although some topics are discussed rate the importance of a list of material issues. First, a more frequently than others, all topics received long list of possible subjects was developed, based on our management attention in the course of 2016. Each material strategy, sustainability perspectives, risk assessments and topic is assigned to the Management Group member or topics determined by relevant stakeholders or within the senior management responsible for the business line, sector. Second, a short list was drawn up based on discipline or department the material topic relates to most. material frameworks and peer analyses, which was The material topics have been grouped into overarching verified by internal experts. An online survey with this themes and each working group will develop action plans Leadership short list was subsequently sent directly through social for 2017. media to over 300 stakeholders in our four stakeholder groups, producing 183 responses in total. In addition, we Stakeholders can direct questions or complaints to us held a dialogue with our internal stakeholders – comprised through various channels: our website, one of our of members of the Managing Board and senior branches, or our call centre. ABN AMRO’s complaints management from the business lines – who ranked policy includes the possibility for stakeholders to file a Governance various topics based on the potential impact for ABN complaint about the bank’s impact on society. AMRO. During the internal consultation process, the matrix was validated and defined. Based on this Stakeholder engagement comprehensive process, the material topics emerged (see More information about our stakeholder engagement and next page). The scope of the materiality matrix has been the results of our materiality analysis is presented on our expanded compared with 2015: it now covers all relevant website.1 We take the interests of our stakeholders Annual Financial Statements topics that matter most to stakeholders, not only seriously. It is our responsibility to balance these interests sustainability topics. in our pursuit of long-term value. See our approach to value creation on pages 22 to 24. 1 abnamro.com/en/images/Documents/010_About_ABN_AMRO/Annual_Report/2016/ABN_AMRO_Materiality_Analysis_2016.pdf Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 17 Strategy / What matters most Introduction Our material topics Strategy Stakeholder impact 3 Business 10 4 2 1 12 6 5 15 13 16 14 11 9 7 17 18 8 Risk, funding & capital 19 20 Organisational impact Topics disclosed in the Annual Report Topics disclosed through other sources Leadership Please see the following pages for the description of each topic. Governance Connectivity to this materiality matrix are not discussed in this Annual Most of the material topics are addressed in this Annual Report (15-20), with the exception of number 16 as this is Annual Financial Statements Report. Our impact on ‘non-discrimination and human part of our core risk approach (see page 95). The connectivity dignity’ (13) is addressed in our separate Human Rights table on the following pages provides a description of Report which we published in December 2016. The topics 1 each material topic, how the topic relates to our strategy deemed to have less social or business impact according and to which stakeholder groups the topic matters most. Other 1 abnamro.com/en/images/Documents/040_Sustainable_banking/080_Reporting/2016/ABN_AMRO_Human_Rights_Report_2016.pdf ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 18 Strategy / What matters most Introduction Material topics and connectivity Material topic Description Strategy Stakeholders Reference Strategy 1 Customer issue We listen to, and take ownership of, clients’ needs Page 59, 68, ownership and problems. Clients should feel that their needs 77 and issues are addressed by the bank. 2 Ethics and integrity We base our actions on society’s moral standards. Page 34 Business 3 Preventing We protect our clients’ funds and data against Page 35 corruption, fraud security breaches. We actively prevent activities and cybercrime designed to illegally acquire commercial or personal gain from our digital or physical environment to the detriment of any party involved in or affected by the bank’s activities. Risk, funding & capital 4 Sustainability of A sustainable business model is a model that Page 20 our business model produces healthy and robust results, ensuring continuity over the years. 5 Stability of our We ensure the accessibility and stability of our Page 44 digital services digital services. 6 Clear, appropriate We give clients clear, comprehensive information Page 59, 68, advice and help them select the financial product or 77 service that best fits their personal situation. Leadership Our sector expertise and product knowledge help us understand our clients’ needs. 7 Agile organisation We respond and adapt to changes and developments Page 21 outside the bank in order to add value to society now and in the future. 8 Co-creation Teaming up with partners inside and outside the Page 61, 70, Governance and innovation bank (co-creation) and creating an environment 79 in which innovation is stimulated and nurtured. 9 Privacy, use of The use of client data by the bank in order to Page 36 client data by improve our services and offer customised the bank or products or providing data to third parties outside third parties the bank for commercial purposes. Annual Financial Statements 10 Responsible We pursue a transparent tax policy that prohibits Page 41 tax policy tax evasion and prescribes fair tax payments and structures. We advise our clients in line with this policy. 11 Employee We strive to create an open corporate culture in Page 37, 38, engagement and which employees are empowered and encouraged 39, 246 empowerment to be engaged and help build the organisation. We have a fair remuneration policy and offer training and development programmes designed to develop talent and create highly skilled employees and a committed workforce. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 19 Strategy / What matters most Introduction Strategy Material topic Description Strategy Stakeholders Reference 12 Moderate A moderate risk profile means we pursue a Page 96, 129 risk profile prudent risk policy. This helps us deliver a stable financial performance. 13 Non-discrimination We strive to create an environment for all our Human and human dignity stakeholders that is free from discrimination and Rights Report Business that respects human dignity and equal opportunities. 2016 14 Responsible We pursue a responsible remuneration policy for Page 237, remuneration Board members, senior management and other 240 policy employees. We are transparent about this policy and about performance standards and measurements used in awarding variable remuneration. Risk, funding & capital 15 Role model in In addition to complying with national and Governance terms of legislation international legislation and regulations, we section and regulations proactively identify and anticipate developments in this area. 16 A positive impact In offering our finance and investment services, we Page 71, 80, on ESG criteria work to ensure that our clients and the entities they 118, 187 through our invest in put their impact on human rights, health financing and and safety and the environment first in their conduct. investment We leverage our position to expose abuses to human services. Leadership rights, health and safety and the environment and are in constant dialogue with our clients with a view to improving the situation. If we do not see tangible improvements, we end our relationship. 17 Safe and healthy We offer our employees a safe and healthy working Careers workplace environment by providing the necessary facilities and by actively promoting their well-being and Human encouraging vitality. In doing so, we enable Resources Governance employees to carry out their work to the best and of their ability. Sustainability 18 Our environmental The environmental footprint of our organisation, Sustainable impact created by our business operations and business procurement activities. operations 19 Adding value Annual Financial Statements We promote the welfare of society by offering ABN AMRO by promoting the products and services that empower people and Foundation welfare of society businesses. We give back to society by facilitating Annual social entrepreneurship and by organising volunteer Report 2015 programmes in which our employees participate. 20 Adding value We respond to society’s needs by offering our Stakeholder by leading the financial expertise, including sharing sector-specific dialogues public debate knowledge and promoting social entrepreneurship. Strategy Client-driven Invest in the future Moderate risk profile Sustainable growth Strategy-transcending topic Other Stakeholders Clients Employees Society at large Investors ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 20 Strategy / What matters most Introduction Two of the several material topics that are relevant to and control activities. This programme is being carried out ABN AMRO at a strategic level are described below. in 180 initiatives bank-wide and is expected to save the Strategy bank EUR 0.2 billion annually by 2020 as compared with Sustainable ALTIJD business 5x basisregel hoog! model A 2015. The ongoing TOPS 2020 and Retail Digitalisation programmes are expected to account for an additional Connectivity of material topic 4 EUR 0.3 billion in annual cost savings by 2020. An additional Link to Important to these See material topics EUR 0.4 billion in cost savings are expected to be achieved strategy stakeholders and connectivity on by digitalisation and process optimisation, including the page 18 Business initiatives to move towards an agile way of working. Total annual cost savings expected to be achieved by 2020 The long-term continuity of our bank is vital if we are to come to EUR 0.9 billion. Offsetting these cost savings are, deliver on our promise of creating lasting stakeholder however, a number of external factors that will increase value. One of our – and one of our stakeholders’ – top costs, including wage inflation, regulatory levies and general Risk, funding & capital priorities is therefore to work according to a sustainable price inflation. These effects are expected to lead to business model. This ensures that our organisation is EUR 0.5 billion in additional costs on an annual basis future-fit and that we can deliver healthy, robust results, by 2020. We intend to use the remainder of the cost now and in the future. A key ingredient of a sustainable savings to invest in innovation and growth. business model is a diverse workforce and an inclusive environment. Creating a workforce that reflects the Innovation and growth communities we serve will allow us to serve society more We are pursuing growth in sectors in which we already have efficiently and effectively. ABN AMRO is firmly committed in-depth expertise. Our focus is increasingly on adjacent to conducting responsible business practices and sectors and clients and offering our clients best-in-class Leadership investing in a more sustainable world. sustainable products and solutions. We strive to maximise Governance Creating and maintaining a sustainable business model the sustainability of all our business’s operations. At the We believe that a sustainable business model is by definition same time, we plan to introduce several innovative Annual Financial Statements a work in progress, so we are constantly exploring ways to product offerings in various business segments for our improve ours. In accordance with our moderate risk profile, clients. And we are developing new earnings models. We we maintain a large capital buffer and, among other want to move ahead quickly so these will be set up as things, avoid excessive sector and country overexposure innovator entities that will operate online and have a large abroad. Below we describe the most important bank-wide degree of autonomy in running their own IT. Using these initiatives that are helping us to further develop and small entities will help us accelerate innovation while maintain a sustainable business model. allowing us to test new banking concepts in a low-risk manner. As an example, MoneYou aims to extend its Efficiency programmes digital product offering and will gradually be expanded Various programmes are up and running at the bank. The internationally. The client experience should become even Other efficiency programme currently under way is designed to more seamless, mobile, attractive, relevant and ‘techy’ – streamline our organisation and to rationalise our support what we call ‘smart banking’. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 21 Strategy / What matters most Introduction We intend to increase investments in these growth initiatives, market. We also believe agile working will help us reach up to EUR 0.4 billion annually in 2020 versus 2015. Together our clients through new channels more efficiently. This in Strategy with the abovementioned EUR 0.5 billion cost increase turn can support us in entering new markets. expected from wage and price inflation and higher regulatory costs, total costs are expected to grow by EUR 0.9 billion, Agile way of working netting out the savings of the efficiency programmes. We are taking various measures to promote this way of working. To promote a more results-driven culture, we are Monitoring our sustainable business model creating a new governance model which places a greater Business Our financial performance gives us a good indication emphasis on output. One hundred multidisciplinary teams of how sustainable our business model is. In particular, and 1,000 employees across the bank are already working our return on equity reflects our profitability and measures according to agile principles. In 2017 we will increase the how well we have put investments to work. number of multidisciplinary teams across the bank. These teams will have end-to-end responsibility. This will help us To create a diverse workforce we are committed to achieving create an environment in which innovation and co-creation Risk, funding & capital our gender diversity targets of placing women in 30% of are nurtured. senior management positions and in 35% of upper middle management positions by 2020. And we also continued to Re-engineering the IT landscape make progress on building a diverse and inclusive Meanwhile, we will continue to streamline and reworkforce in the areas of cultural diversity and disability. engineer our IT landscape in the coming years through our ongoing TOPS 2020 and Retail Digitalisation programmes. ABN AMRO rose sharply in the globally renowned Dow Jones At the same time, we see promising opportunities in Sustainability Index (DJSI) ranking, scoring 87 out of 100 teaming up with partners, big techs and fintechs. We have points – nine points higher than in 2015. Furthermore, rating a great deal to learn from them and are eager to share our Leadership and research agency FTSE4Good added ABN AMRO to the expertise and launch start-ups together. Governance FTSE4Good Index in 2016. Both the DJSI and FTSE4Good Monitoring our responsive organisation put ABN AMRO in the top 15% of banks worldwide. We measure and report on our progress in implementing Annual Financial Statements agility-promoting initiatives four times a year in the A responsive ALTIJD organisation 5x basisregel hoog! A Quarterly Execution Monitor and once a year in the Yearly Strategic Review. Our annual Employee Engagement Connectivity of material topic 7 Survey and interim engagement assessments show Link to Important to these See material topics whether the organisation and our people are capable of strategy stakeholders and connectivity on changing quickly enough. page 18 An overview of the strategic targets and our 2016 performance are provided in the Business section. And As an agile organisation, we will be able to respond more our Value Creation Model shows the value we are creating Other swiftly to changing client needs, embrace new for our different stakeholders. technologies more effectively and accelerate our time-toABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 22 Strategy / How we create and share value Introduction How we create and share value Our value creation model shows how we use the resources and expertise at our disposal Strategy to create value for our stakeholders. It all starts with the ‘input’ – four types of capital. These are the key resources we use to generate value. The output results in the value we create for our stakeholders and how we share it with each stakeholder group. The Value Creation Model is presented in the Strategy section of this report. Business INPUT Risk, funding & capital Social and Relationship Capital We maintain strong relationships with our stakeholders by regularly conducting dialogues with them and by performing market analyses, scenario planning and materiality research on what topics matter most to them. Stakeholder management is embedded in our governance model and is carried out in all layers of the bank. Our commitment to sustainability and other social issues is continuously growing. Leadership Digital and Technological Capital Our business activities are conducted through tangible and virtual infrastructures. We are investing in digital and innovative propositions and pursuing external partnerships to fortify our digital and technological capital. Human and Intellectual Capital Governance We have specialised financial skills and in-depth sector expertise in different industries. We are committed to attracting, retaining and developing talented and dedicated employees. Our cultural principles and purpose serve as a guide as we work to transform our culture and embed agile methods across our organisation, allowing us to respond alertly to changing Annual Financial Statements client needs. Financial Capital We use financial capital – including reserves generated through equity, client deposits and other funding sources – to invest in our activities. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 23 Introduction KEY TRENDS Strategy Changing Increasing Disruption and Changing client regulation new entrants monetary behaviour conditions Business E RM STRATEGIC P M -T RI O RI T D IU Risk, funding & capital IES ME Enh a nce se t he rt i xp e STRATEGIC FO UN cl i e E RM DA en ng -T Client-driven te Leadership Bri NG ON est in the futu LO xp e PURPOSE r ie n TI te risk pro dera ce file Inv o re Creating space for Governance M dreams and ambitions Driven by passion, guided by expertise Su th ow stai n De able gr o w Annual Financial Statements gr liv rf & e as a te t ov Inn Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 24 Strategy / How we create and share value Introduction Strategy Business OUTPUT OUTCOME VALUE CREATED VALUE SHARED Risk, funding & capital Social and Relationship Capital -15 NPS Retail Banking We are creating an agile We are redesigning our business and distribution -1 NPS Private Banking organisation and a more models to address changing client needs, and we 6 NPS Corporate Banking sustainable business offer personalised advice and tailor-made products and services. 3.1 Trust Monitor score model that addresses our (on a scale of 1 to 5) stakeholders’ needs. Digital and Technological Capital 99.87% Clients Leadership We are opening up our network by forging partnerships. Availability of our digital services Client satisfaction is rising We strive to ensure a stable, secure IT landscape with high availability while protecting client data, 5.9 million and the number of loyal Number of internet clients is growing. guaranteeing privacy and combating fraud. banking contracts Employees Natural Capital EUR 8.2 billion Employee engagement Governance We are minimising the environmental footprint of Sustainable client assets grew in 2016, but job our operations and embedding environmental principles in our corporate and real estate financing and our 1.62 tonnes losses will affect CO2 emissions in tonnes per FTE our workforce. investment services. Society at large Human and Intellectual Capital 82% We are contributing Annual Financial Statements Our purpose, strategy, values and principles form Employee engagement score to a better world while our culture. We are introducing agile methods bank-wide. Our engaged staff share their financial 2% improving our bank’s Training expenses as a percentage and sector expertise with our clients and partners. of total personnel expenses reputation. Investors Financial Capital 11.8% Sustainable revenues, We have a moderate risk profile, contributing Underlying return on equity healthy cash flows and to a strong, stable financial sector. Effective management and an improved Dutch economy 17.0% share price, responsible Fully-loaded CET1 ratio will lift our ROE and dividend payout. tax policy. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Introduction Strategy Business Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 25 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Strategy / ABN AMRO shares / Notes to the reader Introduction Strategy Business Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 26 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Strategy / ABN AMRO shares / Notes to the reader Introduction Business Strategy This section includes an overview of our operating environment, discussion and analysis of both financial and non-financial results, and business review of the different segments for the years 2016 Business and 2015. 28 57 Risk, funding & capital Operating environment Business performance Economic environment 28 Retail Banking 58 Regulatory environment 30 Private Banking 67 Corporate Banking 76 33 Group Functions 87 Group performance Performance on strategic targets Material topics34 33 90 Responsibility statement Leadership Dealing with dilemmas  42 Technology44 Governance Sustainability46 Financial review 50 Annual Financial Statements Other 28 Business / Operating environment / Economic environment Introduction Operating environment Strategy Economic environment 2016 was a fairly calm year for the global economy. Growth in the US and the eurozone was Business neither spectacular nor worrying. With actual growth slightly exceeding potential, unemployment in the eurozone declined and public finances improved, while inflationary pressure did not increase. The US economy strengthened in the course of the year the job market has picked up considerably and the new as the energy sector stabilised and the inventory cycle in government has expansive budgetary intentions, sowing Risk, funding & capital the manufacturing sector turned positive. Despite fears of the seeds for higher inflation. The eurozone, on the other a hard landing in China, the Chinese economy stabilised, hand, saw only minor tendencies towards domestic partly thanks to fiscal stimulus. The Dutch economy inflation. Persisting slack in the economy kept a firm lid showed convincing growth in 2016, with consumption, on inflation, but at least deflation fears eased. Yields on fixed investments and international trade all contributing. the capital market rose in the final months of the year The mood on the global financial markets was not calm at under the influence of rising interest rates in the US. all, but improved significantly in the latter part of the year. The AEX index, for example, fluctuated between 383 Rising long yields in latter part of 2016 (Interest on 10-year government bonds and ECB rate) and 482. Markets shrugged off unexpected political unrest Leadership relatively easy (Brexit, US elections, Italian referendum). 4 3 Calm year for global economy (GDP, % year-on-year) 2 8 1 Governance 6 0 4 -1 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 Refi rate ECB 10 yrs eurozone 10 yrs US 0 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream. Annual Financial Statements -2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dutch economy continues to recover US Eurozone Emerging Markets NL The Dutch economy grew by 2.1% in 2016, more or less Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream, EIU. matching growth in 2015. Both years saw growth in all EM figure for 2016 is ABN AMRO estimate. areas of spending. Although global trade did not grow spectacularly, Dutch exports did well. Fixed investment Interest rates under pressure as a result rose sharply, mainly because residential construction of ECB policy continued to climb steeply on the back of the strong The European Central Bank maintained its highly relaxed recovery of the housing market. Corporate investment monetary policy in 2016, deviating from the US Federal rose more than 4% in 2016. Household consumption Other Reserve, which raised its federal funds rate by 25 basis rose around 1.5%, which is not surprising considering points in December. Inflation in the US is still low, but ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 29 Business / Operating environment / Economic environment Introduction the significant improvement in purchasing power in 2016. Mortgage lending to households by banks has hovered around The increase in the number of employed people also zero growth for the past three years. On this market, the market Strategy stimulated consumption. share of institutional investors has increased substantially. Another fruitful year for Dutch economy Slighter decline in outstanding loans in 2016 (% year-on-year) (Outstanding loans to Dutch entities, % year-on-year) 12 4 8 Business 2 4 0 0 -2 -4 -4 Risk, funding & capital -8 -6 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GDP Exports Private consumption Fixed investment Non-financial corporations Households, for home purchase Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream. Source: DNB. Data adjusted for securitisations and breaks and excluding notional cash pooling positions. Housing market is booming Looking ahead to 2017 The housing market continued its powerful upward spiral in We expect the Dutch economy to sustain its growth 2016. Sales growth was very strong: the number of homes momentum in 2017. Growth of global trade is slim, but Leadership sold was 20% higher in 2016 than it was a year earlier. 1 budgetary incentives in the US could provide an extra Growth was seen in all provinces of the country. Signals boost. We foresee stable growth in the eurozone. Large of overheating were visible in several larger cities. National budgetary incentives are not in the cards, but favourable house prices rose by almost 7% between December 2015 corporate earnings should give fixed investment within the and December 2016. At year-end 2016, the national price eurozone a push. The European Central Bank, unlike the level was 14% higher than the low point in 2013. However, Fed, will continue its purchasing programme until at least Governance it was still 11% below the 2008 peak. The steady decline the end of 2017. Diverging central bank interest rates could in the number of homes for sale indicates an intensifying weaken the euro. Dutch exports could benefit from these housing shortage. Low mortgage interest rates are largely developments. The strong improvement in purchasing responsible for this boom. Moreover, the economy is power will also continue to drive household consumption growing and the job market is on the way up. Other factors in 2017. We expect growth of the housing market to flatten are backlog demand and rent increases of recent years. in the coming year. Elevated prices and a lack of suitable Annual Financial Statements properties for sale could dampen demand. Lending fails to grow despite economic growth ​Developments on the political front will cause uncertainty Bank lending in the eurozone is on the rise, thanks in part to the going forward. The outcomes of the British referendum European Central Bank’s relaxed monetary policy. In contrast, on leaving the EU and of the US presidential election the amount of outstanding loans to Dutch businesses by banks were surprising. In both cases a nationalistic course in the Netherlands has shrunk continuously since July 2013. This turned out to be the winning formula. It appears that seems related to large companies’ preference for issuing bonds the public’s trust in the benefits of free trade has been over bank credit. The pace of the decline of total outstanding harmed. Elections in various eurozone countries in 2017, bank loans to businesses diminished during the course of 2016. including in Netherlands on 15 March, will reveal whether Other these two events were exceptions or whether they 1 Source: Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster). represent a structural development. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 30 Business / Operating environment / Regulatory environment Introduction Regulatory environment Strategy Overview The main regulatory developments affecting ABN AMRO (CRR/CRD IV) and the Bank Recovery and Resolution in 2016 involved finalising post-crisis European legislation, Directive (BRRD) have been proposed. Also, further strengthening the Banking Union and supporting the proposals under the Action Plan on building a Capital Business European Single Market. This resulted in a substantial Markets Union (CMU) have been made (including a number of measures being implemented under European proposal for a directive on business insolvency). legislation, such as the Market in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II), the Payment Services Directive II Considering the vast volume of rules and regulations, (PSD II) and the fourth Anti Money Laundering Directive the Regulatory Committee – supported by the Regulatory (AMLD IV). Along with regulations and guidance from Office – continuously monitors the bank’s response to Risk, funding & capital the national and European supervisors, amendments and implementation of these new rules and regulations to the Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive to ensure this is done in a timely and efficient manner. Financial Supervision Amendment Act 2016 European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II/Regulation (MiFID II/MiFIR) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II/Regulation (MiFID II/MiFIR) Market Abuse Directive II/Regulation (MAD II/MAR) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Mortgage Credit Directive (MCD) Dodd-Frank Act Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD) Capital Requirements Directive/Regulation (CRD IV/CRR) Benchmark Regulation Securities Financing Transactions Regulation (SFTR) Securitisation Regulation Leadership Packaged Retail Investment and Insurance-Based Products Directive (PRIIPS) Data Protection Regulation European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) Dodd-Frank Act Common Reporting Standard (CRS) Central Securities Depositories Regulation (CSDR) Green Paper on retail financial services and insurance Consumer Improve protection transparency Financial Supervision Amendment Act 2016 Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II/ Strengthen Taxation/ Governance Regulation (MiFID II/MiFIR) financial charges Market Abuse Directive II/Regulation (MAD II/MAR) industry Benchmark Regulation Single Supervisory Mechanism Regulation/ Framework Regulation (SSM) Annual Financial Statements Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD) Payment Services Directive II (PSD II) Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) Payment Accounts Directive (PAD) Deposit Guarantee Scheme/Directive (DGSD) 4th Anti Money Laundering Directive Financial Transaction Tax (FTT) Action Plan on Building a Capital Markets Union Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) Prospectus Regulation Dutch bank tax European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) Strengthening the Banking Union European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) CRR/CRD IV and BRRD form the basis for the Banking Union. Reaching agreement on the proposal for a common To further create the Banking Union, a Single Supervisory European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) is a priority for Other Mechanism (SSM) and a Single Resolution Mechanism the European Commission in order to complete the Banking (SRM) for banks in the euro area became operational. Union. The European Commission believes that risk reduction ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 31 Business / Operating environment / Regulatory environment Introduction should take place in parallel with the introduction of EDIS; risk-weighted assets and the constraints on the use of however, in 2016 the Committee on Economic and Monetary internal model approaches. The proposed changes to the Strategy Affairs (ECON), a committee of the European Parliament, IRB include a number of complementary measures that published a draft report proposing the introduction of a aim to reduce the complexity of the regulatory framework reinsurance period in 2019, but the second and final stage and improve comparability and address excessive variability would only be introduced after certain conditions for risk in the capital requirements for credit risk. The consultation reduction are fulfilled. paper with revisions to the Basel III leverage ratio framework was published in April 2016, including the adoption of a Implementing and finalising remaining Business modified version of the standardised approach for measuring Basel reforms counterparty credit risk exposures, relevant to, among ​In 2016 the European Commission published a proposal other things, the client clearing business model. The Basel for amendments to CRR/CRD IV. The proposal regarding Committee is still discussing the consultation papers. CRD IV aims to avoid divergent interpretations and resolve disproportionate effects for certain institutions and introduces Acceleration of the Capital Markets Union Risk, funding & capital adjustments to CRD IV as a result of BRRD. The second pro­An Action Plan on building a Capital Markets Union (CMU) pos­al is to amend CRR in recognition of the need to further was presented in 2015 to improve the free movement reduce risk in order to strengthen the resilience of the of capital by removing the barriers to cross-border European banking system and the markets’ confidence in it. investments and to diversify the sources of funding. The proposal aims to improve existing rules in a propor­tion­ ate manner. The proposal also amends the existing legislation In 2016 priority was given to the proposal for establishing to align it with policy provisions for prudential requirements, a framework for simple, transparent and standardised supervision and the recovery and resolution framework. (STS) securitisations and more risk-sensitive capital charges for STS securitisations for banks in CRR. Another priority Leadership Basel Committee proposal under the CMU is the proposal for a regulation to revise the In 2014 the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel current Prospectus Directive to reduce barriers for the listing Committee) published consultations for revised standardised of smaller firms, secondary issuances and frequent issuers. RWA calculations and on the application of capital floors (informally referred to as Basel IV). As a result, banks that In November 2016, a proposal was issued for a directive apply advanced approaches to risk categories may be on preventive restructuring frameworks, a second chance Governance required to apply the higher of (i) the RWA (REA) floor for businesses and measures to increase the efficiency based on new standardised approaches and (ii) the RWA of restructuring, insolvency and discharge procedures. (REA) based on advanced approaches in the denominator The proposal is intended to help remove barriers to the free of their ratios. Implementation of the standardised RWA flow of capital and to build on national regimes that work well. (REA) floors would have a significant impact on the calculation of the Group’s risk-weighted assets. This is Retail financial services Annual Financial Statements because of the substantial difference in RWA (REA) calculated The Green Paper on retail financial services sets the on the basis of advanced approaches and such calculation course for the future of the cross-border provision of retail on the basis of new standardised rules for mortgages, financial products. ABN AMRO responded to consultations and, to a lesser extent, exposures to corporates. on this Green Paper in 2016. This Green Paper identifies digitalisation and fintechs as key enablers for further The Basel Committee published a second consultation integration of EU markets for retail financial products and in 2015 for Revisions to the Standardised Approach for further proliferation of cross-border financial services. credit risk. The proposals in this consultation differ in Another key enabler, which requires immediate regulatory several ways from the initial set of proposals in 2014. attention, is standardised EU electronic identity. The European Commission will publish its Action Plan for retail Other In March 2016 the Basel Committee issued a consultative financial services in 2017. paper regarding the reduction of the variation in credit ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 32 Business / Operating environment / Regulatory environment Introduction Focus on digitalisation and financial innovation AMLD IV requires financial institutions to engage in more Digitalisation, financial innovation and the role of fintechs strict monitoring of money laundering and terrorism Strategy were at the top of the agendas of national and EU financing signals, and to tighten up new client intake and legislators and supervisors in 2016. The European Central know your client requirements. Some changes foreseen in Bank recently announced it will focus on fintech-related AMLD IV have a moderate to substantial impact on the issues in its ongoing supervision. The joint EU supervisors bank’s operational processes. And while implementation identified automated advice as a key focus area in relation of AMLD IV is scheduled for mid-2017, the bank has set up to retail financial products. ABN AMRO responded to the a multidisciplinary task force to ensure full and timely Business consultation paper on automated advice in early 2016, compliance with the core principles underlying AMLD IV which may result in further guidance on this topic in 2017. (and possible amendments). In addition, the national legislator proposed setting rules on automated advice with respect to retail financial Outlook for 2017 products. These rules may enter into force in 2017. European financial markets will continue to be integrated in 2017 through further implementation of European rules Risk, funding & capital The European Parliament also issued a resolution in 2016 and regulations (such as MiFID II, PSD II, AMLD IV and with respect to the desired regulatory approach to virtual the Benchmark Regulation). currencies such as bitcoin and associated distributed ledger technology (blockchain), and the European Banking Completion of the Banking Union and, in that context, Authority issued a consultation paper on big data and the reaching agreement on the proposal for a common use of consumer data. These regulatory developments European Deposit Insurance Scheme will remain a priority may result in more specific guidance in 2017. for the European Commission in 2017. On 23 November 2016 the Commission presented a comprehensive Other developments package of reforms to further strengthen the resilience of Leadership Many initiatives to integrate European financial markets EU banks. It contains measures designed to increase the have resulted in a substantial number of proposals for resilience of EU institutions and enhance financial stability, implementing measures under European legislation. These to improve banks’ lending capacity in order to support include MiFID II, PSD II and AMLD IV. the EU economy, and to further facilitate the role of banks in achieving deeper and more liquid EU capital markets Under MiFID II, in 2016 the European Securities and to support the creation of a Capital Markets Union. Governance Market Association (ESMA) published large numbers of The proposal amends the CRD IV directive, BRRD directive implementing measures (delegated acts) that will replace, and the CRR and SRMR regulations and deals with more extend and improve existing European rules on markets in risk-sensitive capital requirements, and a binding leverage financial instruments, give more extensive powers to super­ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). visory authorities and introduce the possibility to impose higher fines in the event of an infringement of requirements. In addition, the European Commission will propose a Annual Financial Statements revision to the European Market Infrastructure Regulation A proposal for the act implementing PSD II was published (EMIR) and an Action Plan for retail financial services to in 2016. One of the main objectives of PSD II is to create a break down the national barriers preventing consumers level playing field for payment service providers (including from getting the best value, choice and prices and to new players). Under PSD II, access to accounts is given to benefit from new financial technologies. The European third parties by payment initiation service providers and Commission will also ensure follow-up on the call for account information service providers, possibly giving evidence on the cumulative impact of financial legislation. these parties a larger role in the payment system. The national legislator will continue working on the A proposal for the act implementing AMLD IV was also revision of the Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het Other published in 2016. Simultaneously, the European financieel toezicht) in 2017, also in relation to financial Commission proposed certain amendments to AMLD IV. innovations and other European developments. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 33 Business / Group performance / Performance on strategic targets Introduction Group performance Strategy Performance on strategic targets Stakeholder Metrics 2016 2015 Target for 2020 Net Promoter Score1 Best NPS of Dutch peers Business Clients Retail Banking -15 -23 Private Banking2 -1 -4 Risk, funding & capital Corporate Banking 6 -2 Employees Employee engagement3,4 82% 76% At least 80% Gender diversity at the top5 25% 23% 30% women in top Leadership Gender diversity at the subtop6 26% 25% 35% women in subtop Society at large Dow Jones Sustainability Index ranking7 87 78 Within 10% best banks Leading among large Governance Trust Monitor AFM/NvB8 3.1 3.1 Dutch banks Underlying return on equity 11.8% 12.0% Pending Basel IV Investors Underlying cost/income ratio 65.9% 61.8% 56-58% Annual Financial Statements CET1 (fully-loaded) 17.0% 15.5% Pending Basel IV Dividend pay-out ratio 45% 40% Pending Basel IV 1 Please refer to the respective business line chapter for more information about measurement of NPS. 2 Score is a weighted average of the PBI and PBNL scores, weighted by operating income of the respective segments. The set-up of the NPS surveys differs among the segments. 3 Source: annual survey by Willis Towers Watson. Total number of respondents: 21,952. 4 2016 score based on revised measurement method. For more details on employee engagement, please see ‘Employee engagement’ in the Group performance section of this report. 5 Diversity at the top is measured as the percentage of female employees in Hay salary scale 14+. 6 Diversity at the subtop is measured as the percentage of female employees in Hay salary scale 12 and 13. 7 Source: RobecoSAM. Source: Trust monitor, Dutch Banking Association. Published 3 October 2016. Degree of confidence in own bank. (scale 1-5). Other 8 See also: nvb.nl/nieuws/1464/vertrouwensmonitor-banken-vertrouwen-in-sector-stabiel-maar-laag-in-eigen-bank-hoger-klantbelang-meer-gediend.html For the definition of abovementioned concepts, please refer to ‘Definitions and other important terms’. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 34 Business / Group performance / Material topics Introduction Material topics A This chapter describes certain topics that our stakeholders have identified as being Strategy material. The topics that are relevant to ABN AMRO at group level are described in this chapter. Other material topics are described elsewhere in this report. Reinforcing ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog!conduct ethical The Compliance & Conduct department sets priorities Business based on identified risks, regulatory requirements and Connectivity of material topic 2 the needs of the businesses. It uses this information Link to Important to these See material topics to develop learning solutions, which are rolled out and strategy stakeholders and connectivity on monitored primarily by the businesses while Compliance page 18 Risk, funding & capital & Conduct maintains oversight. Line management is responsible for monitoring completion of all mandatory training courses as defined in the business curricula. ABN AMRO invests in creating and maintaining an ­organisational culture that encourages employees to In 2016 we added a number of courses to the Compliance do the right thing. As a learning organisation, we want to & Conduct curriculum on the topics of client centricity, improve a little bit every day. To this end, we encourage client acceptance and anti-money laundering, sanctions our staff to engage in a continuous dialogue on ethical and conflicts of interest. These courses offer an effective behaviour. All employees and managers are expected method for discussing real-life dilemmas around these Leadership to comply with the letter and spirit of the laws and themes. We also developed new e-learning modules ­regulations that apply to ABN AMRO. on anti-money laundering and market abuse as well as a bank-wide learning app on operational risk, information The bank’s policies, core values, principles and code of security and business continuity management. conduct guide our staff in displaying the right behaviour. We support our employees in striking a balance between Ethics Committee​​​​​​​ Governance being driven by rules and being driven by values. In 2015 the bank’s senior management set up the Ethics The regulatory authorities expect the bank not only to Committee, which consists of a diverse team of employees implement regulations, but also to ensure that employees and is chaired by a member of the Managing Board. understand the concepts underlying the regulations Employees that encounter a problem which is not covered and the bank’s policies and to act accordingly. by rules and regulations can submit the issue to the Ethics Committee. The Ethics Committee discusses moral Annual Financial Statements Educating employees​​​​​​​ dilemmas facing the bank and guides staff in handling We train our employees and conduct awareness campaigns difficult situations. to ensure that staff understand the guidelines and why it is important to comply with them. The campaigns are The committee meets once every quarter and on an ad-hoc designed to motivate employees to do the right thing basis as necessary. It reviews issues in light of laws and and to act in accordance with the letter and spirit of regulations and the bank’s core values, principles, strategy the law, rather than blindly following procedures. and corporate identity. The committee uses a six-step plan for taking decisions on ethical matters and considers the interests of all parties involved, including clients, employees and investors. The dilemmas and guidance are shared Other throughout the organisation. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 35 Business / Group performance / Material topics Introduction Root cause analysis Preventing corruption, ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog! fraud and cybercrime In managing conduct risks, we supplement our controls Connectivity of material topic 3 Strategy with a root cause analysis. The analysis gives us greater insight into the root causes of behaviour that caused the Link to Important to these See material topics controls to fail, and the root causes are incorporated into strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 18 action plans. This allows us to take more effective and efficient measures against conduct that deviates from rules and procedures. Controls and root causes are registered Business in the ABN AMRO Global Risk Management Framework, Integrity, transparency and duty of care are key elements of giving us insight into how well our control measures are ABN AMRO’s business principles. Protecting our clients and functioning. The businesses have integrated this method the bank against corruption, fraud and cybercrime is essential into their monthly and quarterly monitoring of the conduct to the bank. Clients expect to be able to make secure risk framework. payments, and society expects us to conduct business as securely as possible and with the highest degree of Risk, funding & capital The quality of root cause analyses, conduct drivers and integrity. Corruption, fraud and cybercrime can cause action plans for conduct risks is safeguarded by the significant financial losses and reputational damage to Compliance & Conduct department. All employees our clients and the bank. We therefore have a dedicated who are part of the first and second lines of defence are organisation in place to ensure information security and trained to perform a root cause analysis: 1,333 employees bolster our resilience to financial crime and unethical had been trained at year-end 2016. and illegal behaviour. Our quality control procedures regarding mortgage advice Resilience to threats identified a breach of the bank’s procedures in 2016. We have an information security framework in place which Leadership Security & Information Management, Compliance & defines management and staff responsibilities and sets out Conduct and Group Audit work together in investigating security directives that apply to the bank, its vendors and facts and root causes. More information on this topic is third parties with whom the bank exchanges information. provided in the Business Performance – Retail Banking The Chief Information Security Office (CISO) systematically chapter of this report. monitors client transactions in order to detect fraudulus transactions and to raise awareness and support the relevant Governance Trend analysis staff in mitigating fraud risks. Security & Intelligence Compliance & Conduct conducts bank-wide analyses Management (SIM) monitors and reports the number of of trends and patterns of conduct risks, and reports on issues relating to fraud, information security and compliance these issues to the Managing Board, on a quarterly basis. breaches. SIM also monitors losses for the bank’s clients The thematic analysis helps us understand the barriers and the bank itself. Key alerts and quarterly updates are to and incentives for good conduct by highlighting the distributed in order to inform the relevant staff. Annual Financial Statements gap between desired and actual behaviour. As a result, we can proactively govern attitude and behaviour and identify ABN AMRO also has a security framework in place to and effectively manage conduct risks. Examples in 2016 manage the risk of, and to prevent, financial crime and include an analysis of tone of voice in a learning organisation. unethical behaviour. Measures the bank uses include We acquired valuable insights into the situation on this organisational controls, anti-fraud and sanction risk front at PBI in 2016. We now know how our employees assessment, client and employee screening, global perceive their day-to-day environment at PBI and what education and awareness training. Before introducing new they feel are potential areas for enhancement. products and services, the bank assesses possible risks related to these products and services, such as the possibility of fraud, via Change Risk Assessments (CRA). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 36 Business / Group performance / Material topics Introduction The bank raises awareness among clients and employees Privacy and trusthoog! ALTIJD 5x basisregel on how to recognise and prevent financial and economic Connectivity of material topic 9 Strategy crime (such as fraud, corruption and cybercrime). The bank cooperates with other major banks, police Link to Important to these See material topics and justice departments to shield financial transactions strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 18 from potential criminals. Cybercrime Business ABN AMRO’s information infrastructures connect the bank’s Traditionally, clients have expected their money to be safe networks with public networks. As a result, banking with us. Today, clients also need to be able to trust us to processes and their supporting information systems handle their personal data with care. Rapid technological inherently are vulnerable, threatening the security and developments and growing societal awareness of privacy availability of client data and services. The bank is faced issues reflect the importance of this subject. We believe with a constant threat of cybercrime. Examples of such it is crucial for us to provide transparency on how we Risk, funding & capital threats are computer assisted fraud, unauthorised handle personal data in order to secure the trust of all disclosure of confidential information, virus infection, our stakeholders. computer hacking and denial of service. Specific examples of cybercrime that clients experience are fake emails This is one reason why we apply the strict European (phishing) and malicious software (malware). legislation to our global organisation, including the countries in our international network outside Europe, In recognition of the importance of protecting our clients’ by means of Binding Corporate Rules. We want our clients and the bank’s information and the bank’s associated to know how seriously we take this issue. At the same assets, such as systems and infrastructure, at all times, time, the Binding Corporate Rules give all of the bank’s Leadership we have established a structured approach to information staff clarity on the rules and regulations governing personal security to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and data. The principles of the relevant European legislation availability of information. This approach defines the have been incorporated into our Personal Data Policy. organisational framework, management and staff responsibilities, and information security directives that In January 2016, the Privacy Office was set up to increase apply to the bank, its vendors and third parties with whom global oversight and control over the bank’s privacy risks by Governance the bank exchanges information. As part of this approach, implementing and maintaining an adequate and effective the bank continuously monitors cybercrime threats and privacy risk framework designed to support the business adjusts the bank’s defences where necessary. lines in managing privacy risks. Measuring progress Personal data breach The Dutch Banking Association (NVB) represents the One of the responsibilities of the Privacy Office is to be Annual Financial Statements common interests of the Dutch banking sector. Each major alert to possible violations of the confidentiality of personal bank in the Netherlands (including ABN AMRO) reports data in order to minimise or prevent potential negative its payment transaction fraud losses to the NVB, and the consequences for clients and the bank. To this end, an NVB publishes overall payments transaction fraud loss internal notification process was designed and implemented figures. The NVB reported a 32% decrease in payment in 2015. The Privacy Office reviews any incidents involving fraud in the first two quarters of 2016 (total loss of the loss of personal data and decides whether formal EUR 4.7 million) and an 82% decrease in internet banking notification to the Dutch Data Protection Authority is fraud (net loss of EUR 148,000). required. Our partnerships resulted in joint awareness campaigns Other for the general public, joint investigations and criminal charges against a number of suspects. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 37 Business / Group performance / Material topics Introduction Privacy regulation In September 2016 we conducted our fourth global The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Employee Engagement Survey (EES). The questionnaire was Strategy replaces the existing EU Data Protection Directive and its available in five languages spoken across the ABN AMRO implementation in member states’ laws (Wet Bescherming network. With nearly 22,000 people (internal and external Persoonsgegevens in the Netherlands). It aims to reinforce staff) completing the survey, the response rate was 80%, the data protection rights of individuals, facilitating the making the results highly representative. In order to improve free flow of personal data in the digital single market. the comparability of our results with the benchmark The GDPR will enter into force in 2018. and to gain a more accurate and complete perspective Business on employee engagement, we used a slightly different To ensure compliance with this regulation by 2018, we measuring method in 2016. This method focuses more have initiated global implementation in order to raise the on sustainable engagement, which also incorporates how level of privacy protection within the bank even further. enabled and energised employees feel. To measure this, We will implement additional technical and organisational two old questions were removed, and five new questions measures to ensure, and to demonstrate that, processing were added to the engagement index. Risk, funding & capital of personal data is performed in compliance with the data protection principles set out in the GDPR. An example The 2016 EES showed an employee engagement rating of is the development of a user-friendly Privacy Impact 82%, 2 percentage points higher than the financial services Assessment tool that will help identify high privacy norm. We slightly changed the measuring method in 2016 risk areas. to improve comparability with the benchmark. Under the old method, the employee engagement score would have been 77%, 1 percentage point higher than in 2015. Employee ALTIJD engagement 5x basisregel hoog! The target for 2016 was 78% based on the old method. With a 77% score the target was not met by 1 percentage Leadership Connectivity of material topic 11 point. In October the overall bank results were shared with Link to Important to these See material topics all employees. Managers received results for their teams strategy stakeholders and connectivity on and, as in previous years, were encouraged to discuss page 18 the results with their teams and take the desired actions. This process is being evaluated by two specific questions in the questionnaire: ‘Have you seen the results of last Governance Our people are our most valuable asset: ABN AMRO year’s EES for your team?’ (78%) and ‘Has action been can only live up to its pledge to clients if it has a highly taken in response to last year’s EES?’ (52%). talented and committed workforce. We offer our staff a challenging and rewarding environment in which they Better teamwork, greater efficiency do meaningful work and add value for clients. Nearly all categories achieved a better score in 2016. Efficiency improvements and collaboration – two of our Annual Financial Statements We believe in an open corporate culture in which priorities in the past year – did particularly well. Sixty-eight employees have a say and are encouraged to help build per cent of respondents gave a favourable score on the the organisation. Employees who give our management bank’s efficiency; this is a 6 percentage point improvement feedback on what needs to be improved in the organisation on 2015, but 2 percentage points below the financial help us create a future-proof and successful bank. They are a services norm. In addition, 82% said that they felt free reflection of our open culture and our people’s engagement. to take decisions on their own and 86% believed that We have a fair remuneration policy and we offer our staff problems were being tackled at root cause level and training programmes to promote their development resolved by their team. Seventy per cent of respondents and to enhance engagement. The Remuneration section had a positive opinion of collaboration in 2016, up from discusses our remuneration policy. Employee 63% in 2015. ABN AMRO scores well in this category, Other representation at the bank is discussed in the Employee at 13 percentage points above the financial services norm. Representation section. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 38 Business / Group performance / Material topics Introduction Teamwork is encouraged, new ideas find more fertile ALTIJD 5xand Talent development basisregel hoog! ground and cross-departmental collaboration improved. Connectivity of material topic 11 Strategy Another positive point is that many employees added a comment on client focus in the open comment box of the Link to Important to these See material topics survey, reflecting our people’s focus on clients’ interests. strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 18 Our annual Employee Engagement Survey helps us to enhance engagement and constantly improve our Business performance. Eighty-one per cent of our employees ABN AMRO encourages its staff and managers to are proud to work for ABN AMRO and 90% are motivated continuously pursue their personal and professional to go beyond what is normally expected of them to help development. While we do this in part to comply with legal the company be successful. requirements, we believe continuous development helps our employees make a difference for our stakeholders. Employee engagement 1 Risk, funding & capital in % Compared with 2015 vs Financial Services Norm Investment and appreciation In 2016 we invested EUR 54 million in employee training and development, around 2% of our overall personnel Old method 77 1 1 costs. We measured the extent to which staff appreciate this investment in our annual Employee Engagement Survey with the questions ‘My manager encourages New method 82 4 2 me to invest in my employability’ (score of 82%), ‘I have received the training I need to do my current job well’ (85%) and ‘I have the opportunity to continually learn Leadership 1 Please note that the comparison of the 2016 new method score against 2015 is only based on a recalculation of the comparable questions. It was not possible to make and grow’ (83%). Overall satisfaction with Talent and a full comparison. Development stood at 82%, an increase of 5 percentage points on 2015 and 13 percentage points higher than our Focus on decisiveness and pace of change industry peers. We value these positive results, as it is Besides the many high scores, the 2016 EES also revealed important in a rapidly changing world for employees to areas where we need to take action. Respondents were feel encouraged to work on their personal development. Governance critical when it comes to decisiveness and priority-setting on the part of senior management. They also have less Another way we measure how much our employees confidence in the future of the bank than they did in 2015 invest in their personal development is by looking at their (-4% and also 2% below the industry norm). The EES was use of the personal development budget. Each member of held before the bank’s updated strategy was communicated. staff receives an annual budget of EUR 750 which they In addition, 32% of respondents said that they felt the can use to improve their employability, in or outside the Annual Financial Statements bank is changing at too slow a pace. The Managing Board bank. This budget can be saved for three years before it shares these concerns; these issues are essential for the expires. A new three-year saving period started in 2016 future of the bank and we have worked hard to address for most employees, and 4,533 of our employees used them over the past year. To ensure the bank’s lasting this budget (a total of approximately EUR 1.7 million). success, we need to look closely at these issues and take effective measures. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 39 Business / Group performance / Material topics Introduction Leadership Open culture ALTIJD 5x and basisregel diversity hoog! Our managers made full use of the bank’s renewed Connectivity of material topic 11 Strategy leadership programmes in 2016, with around 1,400 managers participating in a course or programme. Link to Important to these See material topics This includes a programme for new to role managers, strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 18 Develop365, which we also started rolling out internationally in 2016. For this programme we examined the extent to which participants apply what they have learned to Business their daily practice. The benchmark for these kind of We can only be successful if we have a diverse workforce programmes usually lies around 40% (of the 100% that reflects the communities we serve. An inclusive they have learned). The 2016 score for Develop365 environment plays a pivotal role in developing an open was 100%, meaning participants should show a greater culture. According to the Employee Engagement Survey, performance improvement. 84% of our people are positive about the inclusive environment at the bank. This is 13 percentage points Risk, funding & capital At the same time, we continued to devote attention above the financial services norm. The EES is an important to the expertise of our employees, especially financial indicator of our performance on the diversity front, advisors, in compliance with the Financial Supervision as is the quarterly diversity KPI dashboard. Act (Wet op het Financieel Toezicht). A total of 8,089 employees passed 11,373 exams in 2016. Our advisors ABN AMRO’s commitment to diversity and inclusion also maintain their knowledge by means of an online tool includes the promotion of equal treatment and equal that tests their knowledge. opportunities for employees, the prevention of harassment, non-discrimination, and compliance with national and local Redeployment labour and employment laws. Leadership ABN AMRO has announced cost-saving measures in 2017 which will lead to redundancies. The bank invests in the Our diversity vision and guidelines are described in the development of employees whose jobs have been made bank’s Diversity & Inclusion policy. The intention is to redundant. We strive to minimise forced redundancies as create a diverse and inclusive workforce and to respect much as possible, by helping employees find a job either the human rights and equal opportunities of the bank’s within the bank or elsewhere. Prior to a reorganisation employees. ABN AMRO aspires to create an organisation Governance we increase investments in employee mobility. in which staff from diverse backgrounds feel welcome and safe, can be themselves and are given the space and The mobility organisation supports employees who recognition they need to use their talents to foster the have been made redundant in their search for a suitable bank’s development and their clients’ success. As part position, either within or outside the bank. ABN AMRO of the bank’s policy, all businesses have a D&I plan and engages internal and external expertise to support report on their progress at regular intervals. Annual Financial Statements employees and pays for the necessary training to prepare them for the labour market. Our main focus is on guiding In building a diverse workforce, we focus on age, disability, the employee from job to job. Employees that make use LGBT, gender and cultural background. The bank’s D&I of the mobility organisation also receive an extra personal plan sets out challenges and actions to be taken for all development budget of EUR 2,000 on top of an amount of these groups. of EUR 3,000, which is made available as from the date of notification of redundancy. In addition to this EUR 5,000, all ABN AMRO employees also receive an annual budget of EUR 750 to spend on their own personal development or education. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 40 Business / Group performance / Material topics Introduction ABN AMRO pursued various diversity initiatives in 2016. In line with the group’s diversity policy, ABN AMRO strives Examples are the Diversity Experience conference and to meet the gender target of 30% for both the Strategy mentoring programmes for both women and employees Supervisory Board and the Managing Board. ABN AMRO with a bicultural background (such as the Female Career Group currently meets this target for the Supervisory Accelerator Programme and the Cultural Career Accelerator Board. For the Managing Board, where 14% (1 out of 7) of Programme) within and outside the bank. We are also the its members were female in 2016, the diversity target was lead sponsor of De Kleurrijke Lijst for influential Dutch people not met. With the departure of Ms Caroline Princen in with a bicultural background and organise the World 2017, there are currently no women on the Managing Business Wheelchair Tennis Tournament Conference every year. Board. All current Managing Board members were either appointed in 2013 or reappointed in 2014 for a four-year We also received external recognition for our efforts in this period. ABN AMRO Group will give due consideration to area: ABN AMRO was given the Okura – Emma at Work any applicable gender requirements in its search to find Award in 2016. This organisation helps young people with suitable new members for vacancies who meet the fit and disabilities join the labour market. Each year the Okura proper requirements under the Dutch Financial Markets Risk, funding & capital Emma at Work Award goes to a company that supports Supervision Act. The Supervisory Board is committed to young people with a disability to find work. We are proud appoint at least one woman to the Managing Board, to report that we hired several employees with a disability subject to the relevant profile of the open position, the within ABN AMRO. For example, we have an employee availability of suitable candidates and approval by the with autism working in communications and a severely European Central Bank. In addition, ABN AMRO continues sight impaired person as a commercial client advisor. to encourage greater diversity at other levels of the Group. These are just a few examples of our commitment to promoting diversity, and the Okura – Emma at Work Award Female representation in senior management and upper is recognition of the work we have done for many years. middle-management positions is one of the bank’s strategic Leadership KPIs. With the 2016 figure at 24.5%, we are on track to We are also proud of our employee Eeke Olijve, Director meet our 2020 target (30%) for female representation in of Relationship Management at ABN AMRO MeesPierson, senior management positions. We are behind (26% in who received The Young Talent Award in 2016. This award 2016) on meeting our 2020 target of placing women in recognises women for their innovative leadership style 35% of upper middle-management positions. We will and active contribution to a sustainable society. It is an continue to devote attention to increasing the number Governance incentive for young female talent in the Netherlands and of women at the top of the organisation and are planning an initiative of the Dutch Top Woman of the Year foundation. several initiatives to ensure we meet our 2020 targets. For example, we are developing a talent identification Female representation programme and ‘talent book’ to make female candidates (in %) for senior and upper middle management positions more 50 47 visible and we will continue to focus on women in our Annual Financial Statements 43 recruitment communications. 40 30 26 25 25 23 20 10 Total NL Upper Senior middle-management management 2015 2016 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 41 Business / Group performance / Material topics Introduction Responsible taxhoog! ALTIJD 5x basisregel policy Tax embedded in client acceptance and review procedures Connectivity of material topic 10 Strategy As part of our Reliable and Responsible Banking Link to Important to these See material topics programme, we extended our client acceptance and strategy stakeholders and connectivity on review procedures. The procedures not only include a page 18 review regarding potential tax evasion – which is never acceptable – but now also include reviews of clients from an aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance perspective. Business It is our corporate social responsibility to pay our fair share Group Tax supports relationship managers in assessing of tax. We communicate on our tax approach transparently the tax positions of clients and in defining appropriate and have published our tax principles on the ABN AMRO actions. If we encounter artificial arrangements that website. Our tax principles illustrate how we fulfil our appear to have been put in place for the essential purpose social responsibility relating to tax. Our tax policy is of avoiding taxes, we consult and discuss this with the based on these principles and provides guidance on client in question. Group Tax provided extensive training in Risk, funding & capital what we believe is responsible tax behaviour for the 2016, not only to relationship managers but also to legal whole ABN AMRO Group, regarding our own affairs and compliance officers to enhance their understanding of and in our dealings with clients. how to assess clients from a tax perspective. At the same time we are subject to limitations, as it is impossible Developments to perform a complete tax due diligence procedure We reviewed and amended our tax principles and tax policy on our clients. in 2016, and stressed our social responsibility, based in part on the expectations expressed by our stakeholders Tax embedded in product approval procedures during the stakeholder dialogue and public discussions. As we wish to steer clear of aggressive tax planning and Leadership We also discussed tax policy matters in a meeting with tax avoidance, our intention is to not offer products that the bank’s Ethics Committee. Tax avoidance – which is do not fully comply with the intention and spirit of the law different from tax evasion – and aggressive tax planning and that place tax motives above commercial motives. are not strictly illegal, but these activities are increasingly This approach is also reflected in our tax principles and tax unacceptable in today’s societal context. As a good policy and embedded in the product approval process. corporate citizen we do not use structures that are Governance designed for aggressive tax planning or tax avoidance, and Transparency we aim to comply with the intention and spirit of the law. Our tax principles, tax policy and our aim to be a good This is also reflected in our tax principles. To promote tax corporate citizen support our objective to pay our fair awareness and adherence to the tax policy, Group Tax share of tax. We report taxable income in each country has actively presented the revised tax policy to the where we operate and in line with the value creation ABN AMRO Group worldwide. in that specific country. The country-by-country report Annual Financial Statements in note 10 of the Annual Financial Statements shows, The Panama Papers have strengthened our awareness of among other things, our revenue and tax expense for our corporate social responsibility, not only for our own tax each country. In addition to the FATCA regulations, position but also in our approach to clients. We reviewed we implemented the Common Reporting Standards the files of our clients who had links to the Panama Papers regulations in 2016 and met our legal obligation to report and held discussions with a number of them. In some cases information on our clients to the tax authorities. Going we re-evaluated the relationship with the client as a result forward, we will annually review whether our tax policy of our review and after consulting the client in question. needs to be adjusted in order to remain responsible. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 42 Business / Group performance / Dealing with dilemmas Introduction Dealing with dilemmas This section presents a selection of dilemmas the bank Enhancing our presence in Northwest Europe provides us Strategy faced in 2016, highlighting the interests of our stakeholders with access to additional revenue pools. Furthermore, it and the bank. enables us to diversify our risks by lowering the dependency on the Dutch market. Also, we believe that onboarding Serving non-resident clients new ABN AMRO employees with different cultural Business ABN AMRO has traditionally served clients residing in backgrounds and international sector expertise provides many different countries, while the bank does not have fresh perspectives. This creates the diversity we need offices in a number of these locations. As a client-driven to achieve sustainable growth. bank, we want to serve all our clients, no matter where they are located. However, this has become increasingly We also see the challenges this may bring. New local difficult in recent years because complying with local staff will have to adapt to our company culture or could Risk, funding & capital requirements is a labour-intensive process that poses the interpret the bank’s moderate risk profile in a different risk of non-compliance both for our clients and the bank. way, leading to potential losses or reputational damage. And this is at odds with our moderate risk profile. We believe that we can manage this risk effectively. How should we resolve this dilemma? Retain these loyal We are expanding in countries in which ABN AMRO is clients despite the risk of non-compliance, or end our already present and are leveraging our existing sector and relationship with them? Ending the relationship would risk expertise. A culture scan is available to support us mean they would have to find a new bank. While this may in selecting the right staff. Furthermore, to ensure the not be a big problem for people who live abroad on a ABN AMRO culture is embedded in the new local teams, Leadership permanent basis, expats would have to go through this each team will consist of at least one employee who has process every few years, and again when they return to worked at ABN AMRO for a number of years ensuring the Netherlands. a smooth integration into the ABN AMRO organisation. Our international expansion not only offers new business In the end, ABN AMRO reviewed its country policies and, opportunities but also provides career and development after careful consideration, decided to stop serving opportunities for our employees in the Netherlands Governance non-resident clients in a number of countries. We have and our Corporate Banking staff that is already present opted for a notice period of six months, giving clients time in the Northwest European countries. to make alternative arrangements. And we have made an exception for expats and clients who cannot transfer their bank accounts, for example because they hold a mortgage. Annual Financial Statements Expanding in Europe One of ABN AMRO’s strategic priorities towards 2020 is to gradually grow its international business. From a Corporate Banking perspective, this includes growing our Large Corporate business in Germany, Belgium, France and the UK. We will use our existing product portfolio and sector expertise to realise this growth. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 43 Business / Group performance / Dealing with dilemmas Introduction Duty of care: to what extent are clients However, where a clear distinction existed between responsible for their choices? consumer and professional clients in the past, this Strategy We have a duty of care towards all our clients. This means distinction has largely disappeared under the influence of we have an obligation to offer suitable, appropriate and new insights of the financial regulators and public opinion transparent products to our clients that benefit our clients in recent years. Given how society’s norms have changed, in the short and/or long term. This is an obligation we are this raises the question: to what extent are our clients still determined to fulfill. As a client-driven bank we feel the responsible themselves for assessing whether or not a responsibility to inform our clients adequately about our financial product is suitable for their purposes, and to what Business products and services. In the past, the extent of the duty extent is the bank responsible in this respect? This natural of care mainly depended on the professionality of the tension might impact the choices we make in the product client: consumer clients are assumed to have less financial offering to our clients. background and therefore need more protection than professional clients. Balancing these two interests remains a challenge. We strive to be as transparent as possible about our products Risk, funding & capital and help our clients manage their financial situation with our products. But due to the developments mentioned above, we have decided that we will no longer offer certain (more complex) products to certain client groups even though these products in itself could be beneficial for the client. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 44 Business / Group performance / Technology Introduction Technology The role of IT in the financial industry has changed in recent years: whereas in Strategy the past technological advancements primarily boosted efficiency, these days they are essential for offering convenience – clients expect nothing less than 24/7 service, anywhere and with any device. In fact, innovative digital products and services are the distinguishing feature of a successful financial services provider. We aim to be a frontrunner in this area, so we need to make sure our Business systems can handle these new demands. We are therefore investing heavily in digitalisation and innovation. At the same time, our stakeholders also expect our IT foundation to be robust and secure.​​​​​​​ Risk, funding & capital Stability and availability ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog! A Modernising and increasing efficiency Our overarching goal is twofold: we aim to maintain an Connectivity of material topic 5 IT foundation that is robust and secure yet is also flexible, Link to Important to these See material topics fast and future-fit. Our current IT landscape is capable of strategy stakeholders and connectivity on delivering all facets of a full-service bank model which is page 18 compliant with multinational regulations and delivers a stable and secure performance. To keep us future-proof, our Leadership TOPS 2020 IT programme is simplifying our IT environment The stability and availability of our digital services, such as by reducing the number of applications and interfaces. internet banking and mobile banking, are essential to our By the end of 2016, more than 1,000 applications of a total client offering. Clients expect to be able to make payments of approximately 2,400 had been decommissioned since anytime, anywhere and easily. Any outage of systems the programme began, with another 400 applications immediately affects the bank’s operations and clients. scheduled to be decommissioned by the end of 2019. We monitor and improve our performance constantly. Under TOPS 2020 IT, we are also standardising the way Governance In the event of a disruption, we use various platforms to applications connect with our core IT systems. By designing inform clients: via service messages on internet banking software functionality as re-usable standard components, and in our Mobile Banking app, through our Advice & front-end applications can connect with the core IT systems Service Centres and webcare team, and in tweets and quickly and flexibly. At the end of 2016, more than Annual Financial Statements Facebook messages. Major disruptions in internet banking, 195 applications had been migrated to our on-premise, mobile banking, iDEAL and other customer-faced services dedicated private cloud, enabling flexibility, scalability and are reported on abnamro.com, Twitter and Facebook. standardisation. A total of 860 applications are scheduled to be migrated to the cloud by the end of 2019. Simplifying We achieved an availability level of 99.87% for internet 1 the IT landscape will not only increase speed and agility, banking and mobile banking in 2016, an increase compared but will also significantly cut costs. Annual savings are with 2015. We will continue to devote attention to this expected to come to EUR 0.3 billion from 2020 onwards area in order to maintain and, ideally, further increase although this also includes some cost saves from the the level of availability. Retail Digitalisation programme.​​​​​​​ Other 1 Availability of internet banking and mobile banking during peak hours. Peak hours are from early in the morning to after midnight for all services. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 45 Business / Group performance / Technology Introduction In short, we are combining a robust and secure IT shift taking place from descriptive systems that produce backbone with a fast and agile application landscape. information towards predictive systems that produce Strategy These interface with each other through a standardised insights and enhance decision-making. Advanced analytics connectivity layer, enabling rapid delivery of new products is now influencing back-end capabilities, such as trading and services.​​​​​​​In this way, we aim to make our strong IT decisions, fraud detection, cyber security and risk landscape a competitive asset in the future. management. In the near future, it will affect front-end capabilities, such as personal advice. While we are adapting our IT systems, we are also Business embedding agile principles in our culture and way of In experiments with our clients, we are exploring how working. Our traditional delivery model needs to be blockchain technology will potentially affect our value adapted in order for us to cope with the higher pace of chains. What we see is that some value chains will erode, change in today’s market. We have therefore started while others will be developed, opening up opportunities transforming our IT delivery chain into a series of for us. We also forged relationships with key global players multidisciplinary teams with a high degree of autonomy. in blockchain technology in 2016. For example, we invested Risk, funding & capital These teams focus on turning a business idea into a in the start-up Digital Asset Holdings, closely partnered minimum viable product for clients as quickly as possible, and experimented with IBM and joined the leading R3 greatly reducing the time-to-market for new products. consortium and the Linux Foundation Hyperledger project. The product is then further developed based on client In October 2016, ABN AMRO hosted the first-ever feedback. We launched our Agile programme in 2014, Hyperledger Hackathon.​​​​​​​ and by the end of 2016 more than 125 Agile teams (more than 1,100 FTEs) were set up, with a planned total of These relationships give us direct access to the latest approximately 300 teams (2,700 FTEs) by the end of 2017.​​​​​​​ trends in blockchain technology, which we can use for our own experiments. A good example is Trade Finance, Leadership Trends on the horizon where the combination of blockchain technology and At the same time, new trends continue to appear on the smart contracts creates a powerful trade innovation horizon, changing the expectations of our regulators and platform. Domestic and international buyers and suppliers our stakeholders. We foresee certain trends – in particular will be able to trade on this secure platform in a fully open banking, advanced analytics and blockchain technology digitised, simple manner. Another experiment, in which – that will have a significant impact on the banking world. De Nederlandsche Bank is also involved, is Torch. This Governance blockchain application enables parties involved in real The revised Payment Services Directive (PSD II), to be estate transactions (e.g. banks, clients, appraisers, notaries, introduced in 2018, will open up the market to new the land registry office, Chamber of Commerce) to record, entrants by giving third parties access to certain client share and exchange data efficiently and reliably.​​​​​​​ data. ABN AMRO was already PSD II-compliant in 2016. We believe that, although open banking will intensify Embracing change Annual Financial Statements competition, it also opens up business opportunities for These are dynamic and demanding times for financial us. Among other things, we can capitalise on our risk and institutions. On the one hand, sophisticated cybercriminals analytics capabilities. A recent example is the Gradefix pose a potential threat to financial stability and security, pilot we started with De Hypotheker, a Dutch mortgage while on the other new players are entering parts of our intermediary, in November 2016. Gradefix uses personal value chain. These challenges are firmly on our radar. Our transaction data to calculate a credit score for consumers ambition is to develop innovative, regulatory-compliant and SMEs. Clients can subsequently choose whether products and services, either on our own or in co-creation or not to share this information with third parties, such as with fintechs, and to be the first to offer them on a mass a mortgage advisor. scale. The combination of our robust and agile IT landscape and our close relationships with innovators equips us to Other The Gradefix pilot is also a good example of how we are take on the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. responding to the trend of advanced analytics. There is a ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 46 Business / Group performance / Sustainability Introduction Sustainability Our pledge is to be a better bank contributing to a better world. We are committed Strategy to being positively recognised for our position on sustainability and transparency. In 2016, we made good progress on the goals we set; for example, we significantly improved our scores on the Transparency Benchmark and the RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment ranking, which is the basis for the renowned Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). We also finalised the metrics for our goals, Business illustrated in the table Progress on sustainability strategy. Risk, funding & capital -T ERM STRATEGIC PRIO D IU M RI T IES ME Leadership Enh a nce se t he rt i x pe STRATEGIC FO UN cl i e E RM DA en ng -T Client-driven te Bri NG ON est in the futu xp e Governance LO PURPOSE r ie n TI te risk pro dera ce Positively file Inv re Mo Creating space for recognised on dreams and ambitions sustainability Driven by passion, and transparency Annual Financial Statements guided by expertise Su th ow stai n De able gr o w gr liv rf & e as a te t ov Inn Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 47 Business / Group performance / Sustainability Introduction Targeted communication Strategy Strategy In addition to this Annual Report, we communicate Our strategic priorities up to the end of 2017 are designed information on sustainability through several channels, to help us create sustainable value for our stakeholders. targeting specific stakeholder groups. For instance, we As a bank, we play a key role in facilitating business. This issue a quarterly newsletter, ‘Sustainable Banking, The means we have an obligation to do business responsibly, Business How and Why’1, which is part of our reporting framework. put our clients’ interests first and address environmental, In addition, the progress on ABN AMRO’s four salient social and governance (ESG) risks in our financing human rights issues is addressed in ABN AMRO’s first and investments advice. The connection between Human Rights Report , published in December 2016.​ 2 our long-term strategy and our sustainability strategy is illustra­ted in the figure below. In the coming year, we will work on further integrating our sustainability ambitions, Risk, funding & capital including metrics, into our bank-wide strategy for 2020. 1 abnamro.com/nl/duurzaam-bankieren/index.html 2 abnamro.com/en/images/Documents/040_Sustainable_banking/080_Reporting/2016/ABN_AMRO_Human_Rights_Report_2016.pdf Sustainable Leadership business operations Clients’ interests Governance centre stage Better bank and sustainable relationships Inspire and A better bank Using our financial Annual Financial Statements engage contributing to expertise for the our people Better world a better world benefit of society Sustainable finance and investment services Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 48 Business / Group performance / Sustainability Introduction Measuring progress We achieved this ranking thanks in part to our We made significant progress in achieving our overarching improvements in the area of human rights and our Strategy goal to be in the top 15% of the Dow Jones Sustainability efforts to reduce our carbon footprint. In addition, Index ranking by 2017. In 2016, ABN AMRO scored 87 we make our employees ambassadors of ABN AMRO out of 100 points, nine points higher than in 2015. This by giving them a role in increasing transparency and puts the bank in the top 10% in the banking industry. sustainability at the bank. Progress on sustainability strategy Business Strategic pillar Goal Metrics for 2017 Results in 2016 In our efforts to make our ▶ Carbon emission reduction by Carbon emission reduction by 37% compared own business operations 30% compared with 2013. with 2013. more sustainable and ▶ Gender diversity: women to be Gender diversity: women in 26% of upper transparent, we act within placed in 30% of upper middlemiddle-management positions and 25% Risk, funding & capital the letter and spirit of the management positions and 25% of senior management positions1. Sustainable laws and standards for of senior management positions. A score of 188 points on the Transparency business financial services provision. ▶ A score of >180 points on the Benchmark. operations Transparency Benchmark. We offer clients safe ▶ Increase in the Net Promoter Net Promoter Score of Retail Banking: -15 and reliable services by Score by 10% by 2017 compared (2015: -23)2 . combining highly secure with 2015. Net Promoter Score of Private Banking: -1 and stable systems with ▶ Increase in the Trust Monitor (2015: -4)2 . client centricity. Score by 15% by 2017 compared Net Promoter Score of Corporate Banking: 6 Client centricity with 2015. (2015: -2)2 . Leadership and sustainable The Trust Monitor Score remained unchanged relationships in 2016: 3.1 on a scale of 1-5 2 . We increase our ▶ Have 40% of our employees 45% of our employees participated via contribution to a volunteer through ABN AMRO ABN AMRO Foundation or other social projects. sustainable society by Foundation or other social Our social impact more than doubled from putting our expertise projects. two social impact bonds to five social impact to use in practical ▶ Increase our social impact on bonds (from a total of EUR 3.4 million for Governance Financial and systemic issues. key themes by 15% (in total 740 participants to a total of EUR 7.3 million expertise for the volume of impact bonds or impact for 1,443 participants). benefit of society funds) compared with 2015. Our social impact on key themes increased by 60% in volume of impact funds (from a total of EUR 104 million in 2015 to EUR 167 million in 2016)3 . We enhance the bank’s ▶ ESG criteria to be further integrated Sustainable client assets increased from Annual Financial Statements positive value creation by into our investments and a EUR 6.4 billion to EUR 8.2 billion, up 28% transparently integrating 15% increase of loan book with compared with 2015.2 ESG/ESE criteria into our environmental, social and ethical Increase of lending volume with GSRI or SMOS client assets and lending. (ESE) indicator, as compared rating by 19% (from 38% in 2015 to 57% in 2016).2 Sustainable with 2015. Baseline measurement took place in 2016 4: finance and ▶ To be recognised as a sustainable Retail Banking: 21% investment bank by our clients with an Private Banking: 15% services increase by 10% compared Corporate Banking: 20%. with 2016. 1 For details of the definition, see Performance on strategic targets. 2 For details of the calculation method, see the definition provided in the Business section of the Annual Report. 3 Increase of our social impact on key themes calculated by change in impact funds. ABN AMRO has identified six impact funds, which are included in this calculation. Other Impact has been defined based on a definition of GIIN (source: GIIN, thegiin.org/impact-investing/need-to-know/#s1). 4 Definition: percentage of clients that rank ABN AMRO with a 4 or 5 on a scale of 1-5 on the question ‘Do you recognise ABN AMRO as a sustainable bank’? Source: Brand track, N = 2,050. Positive Unchanged/some improvement Negative ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 49 Business / Group performance / Sustainability Introduction We measure the results of our efforts with our Employee Outlook Engagement Survey and aim to score 80% or higher 1 In the coming year, we will continue to report on our Strategy by 2017. The employee engagement rate rose from 76% progress in a transparent manner. Our goals and metrics in 2015 to 82% in 2016. Further details on our progress are 2 will be updated for the year 2018 and beyond. We will provided in the table Progress on sustainability strategy. strengthen the connection between the goals and topics that our stakeholders consider to be the most material Governance: embedding sustainability issues. In addition, we will continue to explore how in the organisation we contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable Business We report on the progress we have made in implementing Development Goals (SDGs).3 We started this work in our sustainability strategy on a quarterly basis to the September 2015 when the 17 SDGs were published Chief Executive Officer, who is ultimately responsible and we performed a selection process in 2016, resulting for sustainability. The Sustainable Banking department in a shortlist. In 2017, the questions we will focus on are: submits reports at least once a quarter to the Managing How well do the individual SDGs and underlying targets and Supervisory Board as part of the monitoring of our relate to our material topics, strategy, core banking Risk, funding & capital long-term strategy (more details are provided in the activities and the countries that we and our clients Governance section). We also report specific sustainability operate in? The aim is to make a lasting and meaningful results to senior management of the businesses. contribution to achieving the SDGs. Sustainability experts are employed in most businesses to foster engagement with this theme throughout the bank. The activities and efforts of these sustainability experts are integrated into the various business chapters in this section of the report. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 1 Target is based on old measurement method. For more details on employee engagement, please see ‘Employee engagement’ in the Group performance section. 2 2016 score based on revised measurement method. For more details on employee engagement, please see ‘Employee engagement’ in the Group performance section of this report. 3 sustainabledevelopment.un.org/?menu=1300 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 50 Business / Group performance / Financial review Introduction Financial review This section includes a discussion and analysis of the financial condition of Strategy ABN AMRO Group for the years 2016 and 2015. The information in this section is presented on the basis of underlying results. A reconciliation from reported to underlying results is provided in this section as well. The Business performance chapter of the Business section provides more information on the activities, clients and products of the different segments as well as a discussion and analysis Business of the financial condition of the segments. Income statement Risk, funding & capital Operating results (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Net interest income 6,277 6,076 3% Net fee and commission income 1,743 1,829 -5% Other operating income 568 550 3% Operating income 8,588 8,455 2% Personnel expenses 2,777 2,492 11% Leadership Other expenses 2,880 2,736 5% Operating expenses 5,657 5,228 8% Operating result 2,931 3,227 -9% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 114 505 -77% Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 2,817 2,722 3% Governance Income tax expense 740 798 -7% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 2,076 1,924 8% Special items -271 Reported profit/(loss) for the period 1,806 1,924 -6% Of which Non-controlling interests 1 5 Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 51 Business / Group performance / Financial review Introduction Other indicators 2016 2015 Net interest margin (NIM) (in bps)1 152 146 Strategy Underlying cost/income ratio 65.9% 61.8% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1, 2 4 19 Underlying return on average Equity3 11.8% 12.0% Underlying earnings per share (in EUR)4 2.16 2.03 1 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. Business For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 3 Underlying profit for the period excluding reserved coupons for AT1 Capital securities (net of tax) and results attributable to non-controlling interests divided by the average equity attributable to the owners of the company. 4 Underlying profit for the period excluding reserved coupons for AT1 Capital securities (net of tax) and results attributable to non-controlling interests divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Risk, funding & capital Client Assets (in billions) 322.7 313.5 FTEs 21,664 22,048 Analysis to a lesser extent, NII. In Q2 2016, the addition to the ABN AMRO’s underlying profit for 2016 was provision of EUR 361 million was classified as a special EUR 2,076 million, an increase of EUR 152 million compared item. This provision was taken based on ABN AMRO’s with 2015. Significantly lower impairment charges and higher decision to adhere to the Uniform Recovery Framework. operating income were partly offset by higher expenses, Leadership mainly related to restructuring provisions in Q3 and Q4 2016. International Card Services (ICS), the credit card business of ABN AMRO, has identified certain issues in its credit Reported profit for 2016 amounted to EUR 1,806 million and lending portfolio. A number of clients were given a credit includes an addition to the provision for SME derivativesfacility above their lending capacity. This has been reported related issues of EUR 271 million net of tax, recorded in to the AFM, and the clients who were affected will be Q2 2016. The difference between underlying and reported compensated. A provision of EUR 47 million was recorded Governance results is shown in the table Reconciliation from underlying in Q4 2016 (in NII). In addition to the compensation, a to reported results. provision of EUR 16 million has been recorded (in other expenses) for execution costs. ICS is part of Retail Banking. In December 2016 a final version of the settlement for SME derivatives-related issues was presented by the The underlying return on equity (ROE) decreased slightly committee of independent experts. A new element in the to 11.8% in 2016 (12.0% in 2015); 2016 included higher Annual Financial Statements Uniform Recovery Framework is that all files and client restructuring costs as well as lower impairments. compensation proposals must be reviewed by independent external parties. This additional review will lead to higherOperating income was EUR 8,588 million in 2016 compared than-expected execution costs for which we recorded a with EUR 8,455 million in 2015. The increase in net provision of EUR 55 million in 2016 (in other expenses of interest income was partly offset by lower net fee and Corporate Banking). In addition, the existing provision for commission income. compensation has been increased throughout 2016 by EUR 35 million (EUR 10 million in NII and EUR 25 million Net interest income went up by EUR 201 million to in other operating income of Corporate Banking). The total EUR 6,277 million in 2016. The increase was recorded in provision for compensation for SME derivatives-related all business segments and was primarily due to improved Other issues taken in 2015 and 2016 amounts to EUR 520 million. margins on residential mortgages, corporate loans and This was recorded primarily in other operating income and, deposits (as well as higher volumes). Moreover, 2016 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 52 Business / Group performance / Financial review Introduction was not impacted as strongly by negative incidental Excluding regulatory levies, other expenses increased by items as 2015 was. Consumer loans had lower volumes and EUR 111 million. The increase was largely due to provisions Strategy margins. for SME derivatives-related issues (EUR 55 million), ICS (EUR 16 million) and restructuring provision for office space Net fee and commission income, at EUR 1,743 million in 2016, (EUR 27 million). This was partly offset by strict cost control was EUR 86 million lower than in 2015. This was mainly and the favourable settlement of an insurance claim related to uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets at Private Banking (EUR 24 million). which negatively impacted Private Banking in particular Business and, to a lesser extent, Retail Banking. The decline in fee Last year included a EUR 35 million favourable release income at Retail Banking was also caused by a reduction related to DSB and a VAT return, partly offset by a of client rates for payment packages in 2016. final settlement (EUR 55 million) with Vestia (a Dutch housing corporation). Other operating income came to EUR 568 million in 2016, up from EUR 550 million in 2015. This was partly due to The operating result decreased by EUR 296 million compared Risk, funding & capital book profits/revaluation gains on stakes in Visa Europe with 2015 and the cost/income ratio deteriorated (EUR 116 million) and Equens (EUR 52 million). Both by 4.1 percentage points to 65.9%. Excluding the years included provisions for SME derivatives-related EUR 348 million restructuring provisions related to the issues as well as tax-exempt provisions related to the cost saving initiatives the underlying cost/income ratio part of securities financing activities discontinued in 2009. ended at 61.8% similar to 2015. CVA/DVA/FVA results (EUR 2 million negative in 2016 versus EUR 76 million positive in 2015), Equity Participations Impairment charges on loans and other receivables were results (EUR 13 million in 2016 versus EUR 98 million in EUR 114 million versus EUR 505 million in 2015. 2015) and hedge accounting-related results (EUR 39 million Continued improvement of economic conditions in the Leadership in 2016 versus EUR 182 million in 2015) were all lower. Netherlands resulted in EUR 210 million lower additions and EUR 185 million higher releases of impairments Personnel expenses were EUR 2,777 million, an increase previously taken. Both years recorded significant of EUR 285 million compared with 2015. The increase IBNI releases. was due to EUR 321 million of restructuring provisions related to the announced reorganisation of the control and Impairment charges on residential mortgages were Governance support activities (Q3 2016) and digitalisation and process limited in 2016 but higher than in 2015 due to considerable optimisation (Q4 2016). This was partly offset by several IBNI releases in 2015. The cost of risk for mortgages was smaller restructuring provisions recorded in 2015. 4bps in 2016. Other expenses rose by EUR 144 million to EUR 2,880 million Impairment charges on corporate loans decreased in 2016. in 2016. The increase was partly related to EUR 33 million Commercial Clients recorded releases while International Annual Financial Statements higher regulatory levies booked in 2016. Regulatory levies Clients had higher impairment charges, mainly in ECT amounted to a total of EUR 253 million in 2016 consisting Clients (EUR 209 million in 2016 versus EUR 128 million of EUR 66 million for the Single Resolution Fund in 2015). (including a EUR 32 million refund on the 2015 payment), EUR 98 million for the bank tax and EUR 90 million The cost of risk was 4bps in 2016, down from 19bps in 2015. for the Deposit Guarantee Scheme. For 2017 a total of around EUR 295 million regulatory levies is expected. The effective tax rate in 2016 was 26% versus 29% in 2015. The effective tax rate in 2015 was negatively impacted by a reassessment of our tax position. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 53 Business / Group performance / Financial review Introduction Balance sheet balance sheet figure has been adjusted by EUR 17.1 billion at 31 December 2015. Condensed statement of financial position As a result of the netting adjustments, the comparative Strategy (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 21,861 26,195 Financial assets held for trading 1,607 1,706 Derivatives Business 14,384 19,138 Financial investments 45,497 40,542 Securities financing 17,589 20,062 Loans and receivables banks 13,485 15,680 Loans and receivables customers 267,679 276,375 Other 12,380 7,676 Total assets 394,482 407,373 Risk, funding & capital Financial liabilities held for trading 791 459 Derivatives 14,526 22,425 Securities financing 11,625 11,372 Due to banks 13,419 14,630 Due to customers 228,758 247,353 Issued debt 81,278 76,207 Subordinated liabilities 11,171 9,708 Other 13,976 7,635 Total liabilities 375,544 389,789 Leadership Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 17,939 16,575 Capital securities 993 993 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 5 17 Total equity 18,937 17,584 Total liabilities and equity 394,482 407,373 Governance Committed credit facilities 27,299 21,559 Guarantees and other commitments 15,873 13,868 Main developments in assets Derivatives decreased by EUR 4.8 billion to EUR 14.4 billion Total assets decreased by EUR 12.9 billion to (of which EUR 11.5 billion trading and EUR 2.9 billion Annual Financial Statements EUR 394.5 billion at 31 December 2016. Excluding non-trading) on the back of midto long-term interest rate netting adjustments, total assets increased by movements impacting the fair value of derivatives. This is EUR 0.7 billion. This was mainly due to an increase also observed in the derivative liabilities. in loans and receivables customers and financial investments, partly offset by lower derivative assets Financial investments increased by EUR 5.0 billion to and cash and balances with central banks. EUR 45.5 billion. After a period of a lack of new short-term bonds with a yield higher than the overnight ECB deposit Cashand balances at central banks decreased by rate, a shift from cash into financial investments took EUR 4.3 billion to EUR 21.9 billion, reflecting a shift place as of March 2016. to financial investments (higher yield). Other Loans and receivables – banks decreased by EUR 2.2 billion Financial assets held for trading remained stable. to EUR 13.5 billion. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 54 Business / Group performance / Financial review Introduction Loans and receivables – customers decreased by EUR 8.7 billion high due to refinancing and relocation. Low interest rates to EUR 267.7 billion. Excluding netting adjustments, loans on savings and enhanced awareness among homeowners Strategy and receivables – customers increased by EUR 4.9 billion. of the possibility of residual debt are still incentives Following the announcement in December on the intended for extra repayments. Consumer loans decreased by sale of private banking activities in Asia and the Middle EUR 2.6 billion, of which EUR 1.6 billion outflow related East, these client assets are classified as held for sale to the reclassification of the private banking activities (other assets). This has an impact on client loans (loans in Asia and the Middle East. and receivables customers) of EUR 3.4 billion negative Business (EUR 1.6 billion negative consumer loans and EUR 1.8 billion Corporate loans to clients (excluding netting adjustments) negative corporate loans) on 31 December 2016. All further increased by EUR 4.4 billion to EUR 82.6 billion largely due remarks are based on the table below (excluding netting to an increase in loans at International Clients (mainly ECT adjustments, including the held for sale reclassification). Clients). Growth over 2016, especially in the fourth quarter, was supported by an increase in oil prices, leading to higher Residential mortgages increased by EUR 0.5 billion. utilisation of credit lines for commodity clients, and the Risk, funding & capital New mortgage production grew on the back of low strengthening of the US dollar (see also the Risk chapter). mortgage interest rates, insufficient residential construction activity and more favourable economic conditions in the Other assets increased by EUR 4.7 billion to Netherlands. The market share in new production increased EUR 12.4 billion following the held for sale reclassification. to 21.9%1 (2015: 19.9%). Other redemptions remained (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Residential mortgages (excluding netting adjustment)1 147,472 146,932 Leadership Consumer loans 12,539 15,147 Corporate loans to clients (excluding netting adjustment)2 82,640 78,195 Total client loans (excluding netting adjustment) 3 242,651 240,274 Netting adjustment1 3,505 17,056 Total client loans3 246,156 257,330 Loans to professional counterparties 12,947 12,194 Governance Other loans4 7,448 6,356 Total Loans and receivables customers3 266,551 275,881 Fair value adjustments from hedge accounting 4,794 4,850 Less: loan impairment allowance 3,666 4,355 Total Loans and receivables customers 267,679 276,375 1 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. Annual Financial Statements For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 Corporate loans excluding loans to professional counterparties. 3 Gross carrying amount excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 4 Other loans consist of loans and receivables to government, official institutions and financial markets parties. Main developments in liabilities and equity Derivatives decreased by EUR 7.9 billion to EUR 14.5 billion Total liabilities decreased by EUR 14.2 billion to (of which EUR 9.5 billion trading and EUR 5.0 billion EUR 375.5 billion at 31 December 2016. Excluding netting non-trading) on the back of midto long-term interest and adjustments, total liabilities decreased by EUR 0.7 billion. FX rates movements impacting the valuation of derivatives. The decrease in due to customers and derivatives was This is also observed in derivative assets. partly offset by higher issued debt and other liabilities. Other 1 Source: Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 55 Business / Group performance / Financial review Introduction Due to customers (excluding netting adjustments) decreased Issued debt increased by EUR 5.1 billion to EUR 81.3 billion by EUR 5.0 billion to EUR 225.3 billion. A decline was as short-term funding increased, partly offset by lower Strategy recorded at Private Banking, largely due to a reclassification long-term funding. of the private banking activities in Asia and the Middle East to other liabilities that impacted due to customers Subordinated liabilities increased by EUR 1.5 billion to by EUR 5.7 billion negative. Due to customers at EUR 11.2 billion as a result of three Tier 2 capital issuances Corporate Banking decreased by EUR 2.2 billion, partly of in total EUR 2.4 billion in 2016. due to charging negative rates to a wider range of clients Business compared with 2015. Furthermore, due to customers at Total equity increased by EUR 1.4 billion to EUR 18.9 billion Corporate Banking is more volatile by nature due to third-­ at 31 December 2016, mainly due to the inclusion of party banking clients. Both were partly offset by an increase reported profit for 2016, partly offset by dividend payments. in due to customers at Retail Banking of EUR 2.3 billion, partly related to an increase in deposits at MoneYou. Risk, funding & capital (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Retail Banking (excluding netting adjustment) 100,967 98,674 Private Banking 61,825 66,465 Corporate Banking (excluding netting adjustment) 60,653 62,850 Group Functions 1,808 2,308 Total Due to customers (excluding netting adjustment) 225,253 230,296 Netting adjustment1 3,505 17,056 Total Due to customers 228,758 247,353 Leadership 1 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Reconciliation from underlying to reported results 2016 2015 Governance Special Special (in millions) Underlying items Reported Underlying items Reported Net interest income 6,277 -10 6,267 6,076 6,076 Net fee and commission income 1,743 1,743 1,829 1,829 Other operating income 568 -351 217 550 550 Operating income 8,588 -361 8,227 8,455 8,455 Annual Financial Statements Personnel expenses 2,777 2,777 2,492 2,492 Other expenses 2,880 2,880 2,736 2,736 Operating expenses 5,657 5,657 5,228 5,228 Operating result 2,931 -361 2,570 3,227 3,227 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 114 114 505 505 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 2,817 -361 2,456 2,722 2,722 Income tax expense 740 -90 650 798 798 Profit/(loss) for the period 2,076 -271 1,806 1,924 1,924 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 56 Business / Group performance / Financial review Introduction (in millions) 2016 2015 Operating income SME derivatives -361 Total impact on Operating Income -361 Strategy Operating expenses Total impact on Operating expenses Loan impairments Total impact on Loan impairments Total impact on Income tax expense -90 Business Total impact on result for the period -271 Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 57 Business / Business performance Introduction Business performance ABN AMRO Strategy Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Group Functions Business Leading position in the Market leader in Established business partner TOPS (Technology, Operations Netherlands the Netherlands of the Dutch corporate sector & Property Services) Principal bank for 21%1 Ranked 4th in France, 3rd in 70,000 commercial and Finance including ALM, of the Dutch population Germany and the eurozone5 international clients with Treasury and Tax Market share of 20%2 in Solid position in selected annual turnover exceeding RM&S (Risk Management the small business segment countries in Asia and the EUR 1 million across & Strategy) #2 position3 in savings Middle East 15 defined sectors PR&I (People, Regulations Risk, funding & capital (including Private Banking) Serves over 100,000 clients Clientand capability-led & Identity) #14 in new mortgage production Present in 11 countries with international strategy that Group Audit 5,000,000 retail clients more than 50 branches focuses on three specialities: Corporate Office 300,000 small businesses Fully integrated financial ECT Clients, Clearing and Seamless omni-channel advice and a broad array of Asset Based Finance distribution with a nationwide services focused on wealth International presence network of 221 branches, structuring, wealth protection in the key financial Advice & Service Centres and and wealth transfer and logistical hubs 24/7 internet and mobile banking Leadership 1 GfK online tracker, 2016. 2 TNS NIPO, 2016. 3 Calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2016. 4 Calculated based on DNB Domestic MFI statistics and internal analyses, H1 2016 figures. 5 BCG global wealth management survey 2014 & annual reports. Retail Banking provides a full range of transparent banking business is driven by strategic drivers that are in line products and high-quality services to individuals (investable with the Group’s strategic priorities: client-driven, invest in assets up to EUR 500,000) and small businesses (turnover the future, moderate risk profile and sustainable growth. Governance less than EUR 1 million). Our ambition is to deliver the best client experience among Corporate Banking is an established business partner of our peers. We offer our products and services under the the Dutch corporate sector with a strong domestic franchise ABN AMRO brand, and specific products and services and a focused international strategy. We serve clients under different labels. Our omni-channel distribution both in the Netherlands and internationally with our network provides extensive digital and physical coverage.​​​​​​​ client-centric, relationship-driven business model and Annual Financial Statements extensive sector expertise. In the Netherlands, our clients Private Banking’s priority is simple: to make every interaction are active in all sectors of the Dutch economy. We offer count and to provide what our clients want to the standards a broad range of standard and tailor-made products and they expect. To help us achieve our aspiration to be a leading services based on in-depth client and sector knowledge. private bank in Northwest Europe, we continuously innovate In Northwest Europe and globally, we focus on selected our services, especially in areas that matter most to our sectors in which we are strengthening and expanding our clients, such as digital banking. We want to serve our clients existing positions, realising cross-business line synergies based on a multi-channel model, enabling clients to use our and leveraging core capabilities. services whenever and wherever it suits them. Our daily Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 58 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction An app that makes it easier to split the bill: this was the product that Siu Wai Tang and his team launched. That’s what better Strategy service through innovation is all about. Giving Voice to Value Business Read more in our supplement ’Initiatives in 2016’ or watch the video: abnamro.com/tikkie Retail Banking Risk, funding & capital under different labels. Our omni-channel distribution network provides extensive digital and physical coverage. We expanded and improved our digital offering in 2016, as clients increasingly want the convenience of these services. We serve approximately 5 million individual Our Net Promoter Score (NPS) way of working entails clients and 300,000 small businesses carefully monitoring our clients’ opinion of our products and services. To this end, we rolled out closed-loop We are a top 3 player in the Netherlands: feedback throughout the organisation in 2016 as a way to Leadership number 11 in new mortgage production continuously learn from our clients. Examples of initiatives and number 22 in savings (including we launched in 2016 to enhance the client experience are Private Banking) in 2016 our client loyalty programme &Meer, the Tikkie payment In the Netherlands we are the principal bank app and the Grip app, which gives clients insight and for 21%3 of the population and have a market overview regarding their spending. share of 20%4 in the small business segment Governance Looking ahead, our ambition is to be a client-driven Dutch Clients can reach us through multiple retail bank with a digital footprint in Northwest Europe. channels, including our 24/7 Advice & We plan to expand our digital service and advisory offering, Service Centres, our network of 221 driving e-commerce and facilitating self-directed service branches, and via internet and mobile for our clients. At the same time, we will further leverage banking (over 75 million logins monthly) our expertise by strengthening our advisory capabilities. Annual Financial Statements Our ambition to be at the forefront of technological developments and innovative solutions is supported by our ongoing focus on co-creation and collaboration. One way Overview we are pursuing our growth ambition is by transforming ​​​​​​​Retail Banking provides a full range of transparent banking MoneYou into a fully digital retail bank. We intend to products and high-quality services to individuals (investable introduce MoneYou’s offering throughout Northwest assets up to EUR 500,000) and small businesses (turnover Europe, starting in countries where it is already active.5 less than EUR 1 million). 1 Source: calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2016. Other 2 Source: calculated based on DNB Domestic MFI statistics and internal analyses, Our ambition is to deliver the best client experience among H1 2016 figures. our peers. We offer our products and services under the 3 GfK Online tracker, 2016. 4 TNS NIPO, 2016. ABN AMRO brand, and specific products and services 5 Besides the Netherlands, MoneYou is currently active in Germany, Belgium and Austria. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 59 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction Key figures Retail Banking Stakeholder Metrics Stakeholder Metrics Strategy Clients Net Promoter Society at large Trust Monitor Score1 2016 2015 AFM/NvB4 2016 2015 -15 -23 3.1 3.1 Business Employees Employee Investors Underlying 2016 2015 engagement2,3 2016 2015 net profit (in millions) 1,247 1,226 85 78 Underlying Risk, funding & capital cost/income ratio 55.9% 54.6% 1 Source: Kantar TNS. Research on ABN AMRO label clients. Net Promoter Score is measured quarterly, total score is based on average of the quarters. Every quarter 2,100 randomly selected clients are contacted from a group of 22,500 clients chosen by ABN AMRO, based on internally defined criteria. 2 Source: Willis Towers Watson. Annual survey, total number of respondents: 4,560. 3 2016 score based on revised measurement method. For more details on employee engagement, please see ‘Employee engagement’ in the Group performance section. 4 Source: Trust Monitor, Dutch Banking Association. Publication date 3 October 2016. Degree of confidence in own bank. Scale 1-5. Business developments client experience. We have also introduced the Net Leadership Promoter Score (NPS) way of working. Over the past Putting basisregelinterests ALTIJD 5xclients’ hoog! first A two years we have been conducting closed-loop feedback meetings with our clients. Clients provide feedback to Connectivity of material topic 1 6 our client-facing staff, who follow up on the feedback Link to Important to these See material topics by contacting clients and learning from their input. strategy stakeholders and connectivity on Governance page 18 In response to NPS surveys suggesting that we could benefit from improving our understanding of what drives our clients, we are investing in developing our staff’s Client centricity is at the core of our retail strategy. interpersonal skills. At the same time, we are continuously Our client proposition is based on three principles: optimising client journeys. We also introduced the client always easily accessible, ease in daily banking services loyalty programme &Meer in the final quarter of 2016 Annual Financial Statements and high-quality financial advice. We believe that working following a successful pilot. Under this programme, according to these principles will help us create a positive we offer clients discounts on their banking products and and differentiating client experience. Putting clients’ exclusive deals from merchants and retailers every week. interests first involves both meeting our clients’ needs and providing clear and appropriate advice. We are continuously adjusting our service model to better match the needs of our clients. Retail Banking works Meeting clients’ needs together with Private Banking to offer our clients products Our ongoing focus on client centricity is demonstrated by and services that match their needs. In 2016, we lowered our Customer Experience unit, which we positioned at the the Private Banking threshold of EUR 1 million in investable heart of our Retail Banking organisation in 2015. This unit assets to EUR 500,000 to give more of our clients access Other is responsible for encouraging our clients and prospects to our Private Banking services and knowledge. Furthermore, to use our full range of services and for creating a positive we decided to terminate our relationship with retail clients ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 60 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction residing outside Europe. This affects approximately discussing this matter with the disciplinary court for banks 15,000 clients who reside permanently outside the European (Stichting Tuchtrecht Banken). Strategy Economic Area (EEA) and make use of banking services in the Netherlands. Our decision was based on the growing Client recognition number of regulatory and compliance requirements, combined We believe that meeting clients’ needs and providing clear, with a declining number of Retail Banking clients who reside appropriate advice are important elements of the broader permanently outside the EEA. client experience. To help us improve this experience, we measure the Net Promoter Score (NPS) on a continuous Business Clear and appropriate advice basis with the support of Kantar TNS, interviewing To make sure we give our clients high-quality advice, we approximately 2,100 of our retail clients every quarter. continued to invest in the expertise and professionalism The NPS for 2016 was -15, an increase of 8 points of our financial advisors and specialists. Regulations compared with our score for 2015. We will continue under the Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het Financieel to conduct closed-loop feedback meetings with our Toezicht) define professional standards applying to financial clients to support us in enhancing the client experience Risk, funding & capital services providers, under which client-facing employees and delivering relevant expertise. must hold valid diplomas relevant to their work. In addition, all of our employees have taken the Banker’s Oath, which The Dutch Banking Association (NVB) published the Trust is an important step in restoring confidence in the Dutch Monitor (Vertrouwensmonitor) for the second time in financial sector. We also have an advice quality desk, which 2016. The Trust Monitor reflects a survey by market reviews more complex financial advice on a random basis. ​​​​​​​ research institute GfK on how Dutch people think about banks in general, their own bank and how they experience Initiatives we took to provide clear and appropriate advice to various aspects of services provided by banks. The report our clients in 2016 include offering mortgage advice in sign also publishes the individual scores given by the Dutch Leadership language by webcam and providing mortgage consultations Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) in its Client on Sundays. These initiatives are described in more detail Centricity dashboard. The survey consists of fourteen items under ‘The organisation and our people’ below. categorised into three main areas: trust & perception, product & advice and service & usage. On a scale of Our quality control procedures regarding mortgage advice 1 to 5, ABN AMRO scored in line with the industry identified a breach in the bank’s procedures. After the average on trust & perception (3.3), slightly below the Governance initial mortgage advice has been signed by the client as industry average on service & usage (3.6 versus 3.7) and having been seen and approved, it sometimes emerges slightly above the industry average on products & advice that information is missing, or that the client has another (4.1 versus 4.0). On the specific question to what extent preference and the report does not explain this properly. clients trust their own bank, we scored a 3.1, in line In these cases, the advisor is required to correct the with industry average. Compared with the survey report and share it with the client, who has to sign the conducted in 2015, ABN AMRO improved on six items Annual Financial Statements revised report. An investigation established that a number and remained stable on seven; one item was added of employees had copied clients’ signatures. The bank for the first time in 2016. decided that possible measures to be taken under employment law regarding the employees involved will Solid market position be determined on a case-by-case basis. The vast majority Retail Banking has a strong and recognised market position received an official reprimand and a limited number of in the Netherlands. In 2016, we maintained our number employees were dismissed; in all cases, performancethree primary bank position for retail clients (21%1 of the related pay was withheld. A root cause analysis performed Dutch population) and our number three position in the by Compliance & Conduct helped us to reconstruct the small business segment, with a market share of 20%.2 circumstances that led to the undesired behaviour and Other define appropriate improvement measures. We are currently The Dutch mortgage market totalled EUR 6651 billion in terms of outstanding loans at 30 September 2016. 1 GfK Online tracker, 2016 2 TNS NIPO, 2016 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 61 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction As per this date, Retail Banking held a market share of on a comprehensive range of life and non-life insurance approximately 22% in terms of outstanding mortgage 2 products. In 2016, both the ABN AMRO liability insurance Strategy loans. The Dutch mortgage market showed strong growth and continuous travel insurance were rated number one in 2016, driven by both an increase in the number of by the Dutch Consumer Association (Consumentenbond) mortgages and a higher average mortgage amount. with a score of 8.2 and 7.5, respectively. ABN AMRO captured a number one market position, with a market share of approximately 22%3 in new mortgage Digitalisation programme and innovation production. We mainly offer mortgages under the brands A ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog! Business ABN AMRO (main brand), Florius (targeting intermediaries) and MoneYou (online). Our subsidiary MoneYou was Connectivity of material topic 8 recognised for its pricing strategy: research agency Link to Important to these See material topics MoneyView gave MoneYou the maximum score in strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 18 the category ‘price’ – five out of five – for its annuity mortgage. More information on the mortgage portfolio Risk, funding & capital is provided in the Risk, funding & capital section. We aspire to be at the forefront of digital developments The Dutch retail deposits market had a total volume so that we can deliver innovative solutions that meet of EUR 340 billion at year-end 2016. At the end of 4 changing client expectations. To support this ambition December 2016, Retail Banking and Private Banking held we created a new unit with a dedicated focus on a combined market share of 21% on the Dutch savings 4 Digital Banking in 2015. We also invest in co-creation and deposits market. In the course of 2016 we lowered and collaboration to offer clients faster and more interest rates on all our savings accounts and deposits innovative services. in line with the decline in interest rates on the money and Leadership capital markets. Besides the Netherlands, Retail Banking We launched a multi-year digitalisation programme in 2014 is also active in other countries (Germany, Belgium and to accelerate digitalisation of key client processes, to Austria) under the MoneYou label. expand our digital offering and to offer clients innovative digital solutions. These changes are expected to generate Our subsidiary International Card Services (ICS) remained cumulative yearly cost savings which are expected to market leader in 20165 in the Netherlands based on the materialise from 2017 onwards, and which represent the Governance number of consumer credit cards in circulation. ICS has lesser part of the EUR 0.3 billion in cost savings targeted identified certain issues from its past in respect of the under the TOPS 2020 and Retail Digitalisation programmes. granting of credit to consumers, as a result of which More information about our total cost saving programmes certain clients have been provided with loans above their is provided in the Strategy section. lending capacity. This has been reported to the AFM. ICS has drafted a redress scheme that contains remedial We added more features to our Mobile Banking app in 2016. Annual Financial Statements measures for clients that have been affected, including Clients can now use the app to block their debit card, financial compensation for certain clients. ICS expects adjust their ATM and POS limits and change their payment to implement the redress scheme in the second quarter profile setting from ‘Europe’ to ‘World’. These improvements of 2017 and to finalise the process by the end of 2018. meet the needs of many clients who want to be able to manage their payments independently using the Mobile Alfam, our subsidiary specialised in consumer loans, Banking app, wherever and whenever they want. Clients grew its consumer credit loan book for the sixth use this popular app more than 60 million times a month, consecutive year. We also act as an intermediary for and the number of logins via the app is now almost five ABN AMRO Insurances by selling and providing advice times as high as the number via Internet Banking. Other 1 Source: CBS; Dutch households home mortgages, November 2016. 2 Source: Calculated based on CBS; Dutch households home mortgages, November 2016. 3 Source: Calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2016. 4 Source: Calculated based on DNB Domestic MFI statistics and internal analyses H1 2016 figures. 5 Based on number of credit cards, calculated on the basis of information from DNB Payment statistics Retail payments, September 2016 and company research. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 62 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction We have also made it possible for our clients to use the mobile phone. We have developed the Wallet in close bank’s Mobile Banking app to pay for webshop purchases cooperation with our clients, who gave us valuable Strategy made on their smartphone or tablet via iDEAL without feedback throughout the pilot phases. using a token (so called e.dentifier). In addition, as from December 2016, our clients on iOS can operate their In addition to the examples illustrated above, our focus Mobile Banking app using their fingerprint. Ease and on co-creation and collaboration is demonstrated by convenience in banking should never come at the expense our Digital Impact Fund, which invests in companies, of security. We have therefore added a new element to preferably European fintechs, to co-create products Business the Mobile Banking app: clients are no longer recognised and technologies that are relevant for our clients or our solely by the identification code, but also by the device own operations. ABN AMRO is also a founding partner of they use to conduct their banking business. Tech Quarters (TQ) Amsterdam. This new tech community will be a breeding ground where start-ups can go to We have made it easier for our clients to phone us via collaborate, develop and scale up their propositions. the app. Clients will see an indication of the waiting time Working side-by-side with start-ups will give us access Risk, funding & capital and can choose whether to wait, call back later or send to new technology as well as the opportunity to discover an email straight away. Moreover, ABN AMRO can help interesting fintech partners. ​​​​​​​ clients who phone via the app faster, as they have already been identified based on their app log-in details. Our efforts to enhance digitalisation and innovation are recognised by our clients. Our Mobile Banking app clearly In parallel with our continuous focus on expanding and meets clients’ needs, as reflected by its top class ranking improving our digital offering, we are also investing in in the Apple App store and Google Playstore with scores developing new and innovative digital solutions in order of 4,3 and 4,2 respectively (on a scale 1 to 5). In an analysis to offer our clients an inspiring and convenient experience. conducted by My Private Banking Research, covering Leadership In 2016 we launched Tikkie, the first payment app allowing 113 mobile banking apps offered by 35 global banks, consumers to send payment requests, through the familiar ABN AMRO’s Mobile Banking app came in sixth place1. payment platform iDEAL, via WhatsApp. Tikkie is an initiative of ABN AMRO, but can be used by clients with a current Our progress on digitalisation and innovation is monitored account at any Dutch bank. Shortly after the release date, by both senior management and ABN AMRO’s Innovation we enhanced Tikkie by enabling users to use Apple’s voice Board. Based on our bank-wide digitalisation strategy and Governance command system Siri to create payment requests. At the client feedback on our apps and innovations, we will strive end of 2016 this app had over 200,000 users. to further improve our existing apps and continue to explore possibilities for new partnerships with start-ups or fintechs. Other innovative digital solutions we offer that enhance the client experience are our Grip and Wallet apps. Grip The organisation and our people includes a range of financial planning features giving users Due to the rapid digitalisation of society, and as a result of Annual Financial Statements an overview of their spending. Grip was developed our Retail Digitalisation programme, we further rationalised together with the Swedish fintech start-up Tink, in our branch network in 2016. However, our personal which ABN AMRO is investing EUR 1.5 million from the channels remain an important part of our operating model. Digital Impact Fund to intensify its existing collaboration. Our omni-channel distribution approach is underpinned We launched a pilot for Grip in December 2015 during by the NCCA Award for Customer Strategy we won in which ten thousand of our clients tried the app and gave 2016,1 we received a prize for our Everywhere & Always us feedback. Grip went live for all our clients in 2016. proposition, under which we serve clients wherever We are continuously working on further enhancing this and whenever they want, through a variety of channels: app. Our Wallet app, developed in 2016, allows clients by webcam, telephone, chat, email or in person. to make contactless payments by using their (Android) Other We provide high-quality financial advice through an 1 Source: My Private Banking Research extensive network of 221 branches and through our 24/7 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 63 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction Advice & Service Centres. To tailor our distribution approach Transparent product and service offering and service level to the specific expectations of different We continued to invest in more transparent and tailored Strategy client segments, and to ensure we give our clients clear products and services in 2016. This past year we introduced and relevant advice, we have pooled expertise within three new payment packages to replace the existing the branch organisation. Personal Package (Privé Pakket). These new payment packages represent a shift towards more personalised ABN AMRO now offers clients throughout the options for our clients. Not only is it clearer to our clients Netherlands the possibility of conducting mortgage what products they are choosing and what they are paying Business consultations on Sundays by webcam. Having introduced for, but we were also able to lower the fees for 2.2 million remote mortgage advice in late 2011, we conducted over retail clients with payment packages. We also introduced one-third of all mortgage consultations by webcam in new Business Packages for our business clients with 2016. By offering remote mortgage advice on Sundays changed conditions and lower fees. we hope to further boost this figure. We have also started expanding remote advice to other product groups and to We pressed ahead with our bank-wide multi-year Risk, funding & capital small business clients. programme, launched in 2014, designed to simplify the mortgage product offering, optimise and digitise processes, We understand that certain client segments have difficulty and rationalise IT systems. We started offering interest using digital services and are continuously tailoring our rate averaging to our clients in 2016. Clients with an services to their needs. For example, we started offering ABN AMRO mortgage can easily see online how interest mortgage advice in sign language by webcam in 2016. rate averaging will affect them personally and, if they Depending on how this service is received, we want choose to do so, can immediately submit a request to expand our range of services for deaf and hearingfor interest rate averaging. We also introduced a 0.2% impaired clients. And we are conducting a pilot with ‘sustainability discount’ on mortgages for newly built and Leadership coaches who help our elderly clients conduct their energy-efficient homes. We expanded the option for online banking affairs in an increasingly digital world. These additional repayments we introduced in 2015. Online coaches help clients by phone, email, webcam or during repayments are now also possible above the penalty-free home visits. ABN AMRO also engages with clients amount. The progress we made in 2016 is further reflected through different social media channels, like Facebook by the new Florius app which provides Florius clients and and Twitter. In 2016 we were the first Dutch bank to prospects online insight into the progress of their mortgage Governance become active on Snapchat. process. Our clients can also use the Florius app to claim construction invoices and to obtain insight into their To keep pace with today’s rapidly changing environment, construction deposit. We have also enhanced our online we are updating our organisation and operating model. orientation tool. This tool allows clients to calculate their We are committed to proactively engaging with, and maximum loan amount and the monthly costs of the loan. investing in the development of, our people. We measure We refined the calculation methodology to further improve Annual Financial Statements our employees’ engagement with the organisation by the reliability of the calculations. means of a yearly internal Employee Engagement Survey. The 2016 survey showed that 85% of Retail Banking staff Our ongoing focus on optimising our product offering felt engaged at work, an improvement compared with was recognised by the independent research agency the 2015 score of 78%. Our employee engagement is WUA, the worldwide market leader in digital experience also 5 percentage points higher than the financial services benchmarking. We were ranked best for our online benchmark. We continued to invest in developing our journeys in opening a savings account and taking out people’s interpersonal skills with a Retail-wide learning a commercial loan. and development academy. Together with other Dutch banks, we started offering Other an online service called iDIN, which enables consumers 1 Source: NCCA Award 2016 to prove their identity to online service providers. Clients ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 64 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction who opt for this service will be able to use their own We are accelerating digital banking by expanding our digital bank’s familiar and secure login applications to identify service and advisory offering, driving e-commerce and Strategy themselves online. With digital services on the rise, focusing on digital services to facilitate self-directedness companies and institutions are experiencing a growing among our clients. We are also planning on further investing need for assurance about the identities of their online in optimising client journeys. We aim to serve our clients customers and users. Together with other banks we by means of quick and transparent processes and focus started a pilot with the Dutch tax authorities; afterwards, on inspiring and convenient interactions. the participating banks decided to extend this service Business to any organisation that wants to offer iDIN to its clients. Our ambition to be at the forefront of technological developments and innovative solutions is supported Strategic ambitions by our ongoing focus on co-creating with clients and Our ambition is to be a client-driven Dutch retail bank exploring opportunities for collaboration with fintechs. with a digital footprint in Northwest Europe. Our strategic We aim to implement the agile way of working across the priorities are in line with the Group’s strategic priorities: organisation to enable us to deliver fast in a continuously Risk, funding & capital client-driven, invest in the future, moderate risk profile changing environment. and sustainable growth. Moderate risk profile Client-driven Retail Banking strives to maintain a stable mortgage book We aim to build on our client-driven approach and to be relative to the market. We will continue active portfolio perceived as offering a best-in-class client experience. management going forward, aiming to achieve the right We strive to deliver high-quality advice through seamless balance between risk, return and volume/market share. omni-channel distribution. We believe we offer a competitive We are planning to do this by focusing on sustainable value proposition for clients, combining a personal margins for new mortgage production (mainly with the Leadership element (highly-qualified advisors), state-of-the-art ABN AMRO, Florius and MoneYou brands) and repricing. technology (online and mobile banking) and broad accessibility to advice. We also invest in digitalisation Sustainable growth to improve the client experience, as clients increasingly Growth and innovation are key priorities for Retail Banking. expect ease of use, always on and immediate service. We intend to further accelerate digitalisation and innovation, in part through our digital platform MoneYou, Governance In the coming years we seek to further leverage our which we aim to transform into a fully digital retail bank. expertise by strengthening our advisory capabilities We aspire to interact with clients by means of state-of-the-art (personal, digital and assisted digital). We plan to technologies. The client experience should become seamless, expand our remote advice services to allow clients mobile, attractive, relevant and ‘techy’, what we call to obtain advice whenever and wherever they want. ‘SMART banking’. We intend to roll out this digital offering In addition, we strive to offer self-directed small business throughout Northwest Europe, starting in countries where Annual Financial Statements clients dedicated online services in an efficient and MoneYou is already active.1 effective manner. At the same time, we will continue to respond to market Invest in the future opportunities and develop new propositions (e.g. pensions). We intend to build on our leading market positions and Retail Banking’s strategy is to continuously optimise risk and continue to invest in digitalisation and advisory capabilities reward with respect to the volume, margin and market share in order to seize opportunities to better serve clients, of key products (mortgages, savings and consumer loans) create more value and respond to the challenges presented using the ABN AMRO brand and other labels. We aim to by non-traditional banking players.​ have a market share of 20-25% in the Netherlands and to improve top-line revenue and cost efficiency. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 65 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction Financial review Operating results Strategy (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Net interest income 3,355 3,302 2% Net fee and commission income 463 527 -12% Other operating income 140 25 Operating income 3,959 3,853 3% Personnel expenses 470 487 -3% Business Other expenses 1,741 1,619 8% Operating expenses 2,211 2,106 5% Operating result 1,747 1,748 -0% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 79 99 -20% Risk, funding & capital Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,669 1,649 1% Income tax expense 422 423 -0% Underlying profit/(loss) for the year 1,247 1,226 2% Special items Reported profit/(loss) for the period 1,247 1,226 2% Retail Banking’s underlying profit increased by EUR 21 million income on deposits increased compared with 2015 due Leadership to EUR 1,247 million in 2016. This increase was mainly the to higher margins and higher average deposit volumes. result of the gain on the sale of Visa Europe and lower impairment charges, partly offset by higher regulatory Net fee and commission income decreased by EUR 64 million levies and higher (allocated) project costs related to the compared with 2015, due in part to a reduction of fees continuous improvement of products, services and IT charged for payment packages. Uncertainty and volatility processes (including the Retail Digitalisation programme). in the financial markets, especially in the first half of 2016, Governance had a negative impact as well. Net interest income, at EUR 3,355 million, increased by EUR 53 million compared with 2015. This improvement can Other operating income increased by EUR 115 million mainly largely be attributed to a provision for inconsistencies in due to a profit (EUR 101 million) related to the gain on the interest calculations between the bank and its business sale of Visa Europe. partners regarding one of the mortgage products which Annual Financial Statements was booked in 2015 (EUR 29 million) and partly released in Personnel expenses decreased to EUR 470 million (2015: 2016. Net interest income in 2016 was negatively impacted EUR 487 million). The number of FTEs in Retail Banking by a provision for ICS (EUR 47 million) while 2015 included decreased in 2016 due to a reduction in the number of a provision for Euribor mortgages (EUR 41 million). branches and a transfer of employees to Private Banking related to the lower threshold for private banking clients. Margins on residential mortgages continued to improve in 2016 as the impact of repricing of the mortgage book Other expenses increased to EUR 1,741 million in 2016. in recent years continued to benefit net interest income. Net This was largely due to an increase in regulatory levies interest income on consumer loans decreased due to lower (EUR 136 million in 2016 versus EUR 87 million in 2015) average loan volumes and decreased margins. Net interest and higher (allocated) project costs related to the Other continuous improvement of products, services and IT 1 Besides the Netherlands, MoneYou is currently active in Germany, Belgium and Austria processes (including the Retail Digitalisation programme). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 66 Business / Business performance / Retail Banking Introduction The execution costs provision for ICS in 2016 to a reclassification to impairments. The reclassification has (EUR 16 million) was offset by stricter cost control. no impact on overall impairment charges and was carried Strategy out to align the definitions of defaulted and impaired loans The operating result remained stable at EUR 1,747 million. The (see also the Risk, funding & capital section). The IBNI underlying cost/income ratio deteriorated by 1.3 percentage release in 2015 amounted to EUR 85 million. points to 55.9% as both operating income and operating expenses increased compared with 2015. The Dutch economy recovered further and confidence in the housing market improved in 2016. Both contributed Business Impairment charges on loans and other receivables were to lower impairment charges for mortgages (excluding limited in 2016 and EUR 20 million below the 2015 level. IBNI releases). Consumer loans also benefited from Both years included significant IBNI releases, although these further improved economic conditions and active risk were higher in 2015. An IBNI release of EUR 81 million management of the portfolio of clients in arrears, leading was recorded in 2016, of which EUR 32 million was due to lower loan impairments with higher IBNI releases. Risk, funding & capital Other indicators 2016 2015 Underlying cost/income ratio 55.9% 54.6% Underlying cost of risk (in bps) 1, 2 5 6 1 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Leadership Loan-to-Deposit ratio1 152% 152% Loans and receivables customers (excluding netting adjustment, in billions)1 154.5 154.2 Due to customers (excluding netting adjustment, in billions)1 101.0 98.7 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 31.8 34.8 FTEs 5,266 5,844 1 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to Governance note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Loans and receivables customers grew by EUR 0.3 billion new production increased to 21.9%1 (2015: 19.9%). to EUR 154.5 billion at 31 December 2016, of which Other redemptions remained high due to refinancing and EUR 144.5 billion in residential mortgages. The Retail Banking relocation. Low interest rates on savings and enhanced mortgage portfolio increased by EUR 0.7 billion in 2016. awareness among homeowners of the possibility of Annual Financial Statements residual debt are still incentives for extra repayments. New mortgage production grew on the back of low mortgage interest rates, insufficient residential Due to customers increased by EUR 2.3 billion to construction activity and more favourable economic EUR 101.0 billion at 31 December 2016, partly related conditions in the Netherlands. The market share in to an increase in deposits at MoneYou. Client assets (in billions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Other Cash 102.8 98.7 Securities 15.1 15.6 Total Client Assets 117.9 114.3 1 Source: Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster) ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 67 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction Our French division Neuflize OBC organised a roundtable event to inspire clients, bankers and investors to improve the sustainability of their investments. That’s how we are making Strategy a difference for the climate. Giving Voice to Value Business Read more in our supplement ’Initiatives in 2016’ or watch the video: abnamro.com/climate Private Banking Risk, funding & capital We launched life-cycle segmentation in the Netherlands Reinforced our strong market position to deepen our knowledge of clients’ situations and needs (no.1 in the Netherlands, no. 3 in the at various stages in their lives. Furthermore, we continued eurozone, no. 3 in Germany, no. 4 in France)1 to develop wealth acquisition services for children of clients in our Generation Next Academy. We introduced a boot camp Leadership Enhanced our digital offering by approach in order to enhance sharing of best practices and introducing a new client platform better serve our Private Wealth Management clients. We Introduced life-cycle segmentation asked our clients for feedback on a wide range of topics to pool knowledge and expertise relating to their experience with us as a whole. Our scores have been steadily improving over the past years, with Opened up our service offering to a an NPS of 5.7 overall for our international private banking Governance broader group of clients in the Dutch market services and -9 for our Dutch private banking services. In 2016 we successfully completed the integration of our private banking activities in Guernsey and Jersey into Overview one Channel Islands business. We also transformed our Our top priority is simple: to make every interaction count representative office in Marbella into a branch, enabling Annual Financial Statements and to provide what our clients want to the standards they us to better serve clients with a residence in Spain. expect. To help us achieve our aspiration to be a leading The planned transfer of our private banking business private bank in Northwest Europe, we continuously innovate in Asia and the Middle East to LGT in 2017 is a logical our services, especially in areas that matter most to our next step in implementing our strategy. clients, such as digital banking. We we want to serve our clients based on a multi-channel model, enabling clients Furthermore, we focused on strengthening our client to use our services whenever and wherever it suits them. relationships through digital services. These services Our daily business is driven by strategic drivers that are in give clients access to our expertise efficiently and offer line with the Group’s strategic priorities: client-driven, invest an inspiring and convenient client experience. We in the future, moderate risk profile and sustainable growth. launched key initiatives in online and mobile innovations Other in the Netherlands and developed an ambitious new 1 Source: BCG global wealth management survey 2014 and company annual reports. digital client platform in Germany and France. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 68 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction Key figures Private Banking PRIVATE Stakeholder Metrics Stakeholder Metrics Strategy Clients Net Promoter 2016 2015 Society at large Sustainable 2016 2015 Score NL1 client assets (in billions)6 -9 -9 8.2 6.4 Net Promoter Business Score international2 6 -1 Employees Employee 2016 2015 Investors Underlying 2016 2015 engagement net profit NL3,5 84 77 (in millions) 199 214 Risk, funding & capital Employee Underlying engagement cost/income international4,5 76 77 ratio 79.5% 80.2% 1 Source: Kantar TNS. Net Promoter Score is measured once a year. Approximate number of respondents: 3,634. 2 Source: Scorpio Partnership, Research on clients in France, Germany, Belgium, Hong Kong, Singapore and United Arab Emirates. Approximate number of respondents: 925. 3 Source: Willis Towers Watson. Annual survey, total number of respondents: 865. 4 Source: Willis Towers Watson. Annual survey, total number of respondents: 2,372. 5 2016 score based on revised measurement method. For more details on employee engagement, please see ‘Employee engagement’ in the Group performance section. 6 Scope includes all countries where Private Banking is active. For the definition of abovementioned concepts, please refer to ‘Definitions and other important terms’. Leadership Business developments regulations and pension schemes. To maintain our leading position and relevance as a private bank, we need to Staying ALTIJD 5xahead with basisregel our client service hoog! A innovate and rejuvenate, and expand our operations. Asset growth is essential and enables us to invest. Connectivity of material topic 1 6 Governance Link to Important to these See material topics Our strong segmentation and servicing model keep us strategy stakeholders and connectivity on close to our clients, enabling us to offer bespoke services page 18 and advice and dedicated client service teams. Our main client segments are: ÅÅ Families: helping individuals and families organise We are committed to putting our clients’ interests first and manage their wealth, e.g. how and when to involve Annual Financial Statements and creating long-term value for all our stakeholders – our children in inherited wealth issues; clients, employees, society at large and investors. We ÅÅ Entrepreneurs: integrated services to support offer our clients appropriate, responsible advice based on entrepreneurs in private and business-related matters; their overall financial position, risk appetite, and knowledge ÅÅ Private Wealth Management: dedicated teams for ultra and experience. These are the key ingredients of our high net worth (UHNW) clients and family offices with client-focused service and responsible risk management. assets exceeding EUR 25 million; ÅÅ Institutions & Charities: dedicated teams with the Meeting clients’ needs know-how and expertise required to support institutions Our clients’ behavioural patterns are changing in response and charities, including advice on setting up a charity to technological advancements and amendments to and support in formulating a vision or financial strategy. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 69 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction Private Wealth Management clients are often more wealth; and for our Eminent clients to transfer wealth. globally oriented than our other private banking clients. We are also working to prepare and educate the next Strategy To meet their specific needs, we collaborate and share generation of private banking clients about managing knowledge throughout our international network in order wealth. We plan to introduce coaches in 2017 to serve to deepen our expertise. We have adopted a boot camp the children of our clients. Our Generation Next Academy, approach in which we share best practices in our global meanwhile, offers children of our clients a one-year Private Wealth Management network. We started by course on every aspect of having and preserving wealth, leveraging the Art offering from France, followed by educating the next generation and helping them prepare Business Philanthropy and European Real Estate. Moreover, for their financial future. we strengthened our client focus and presence in France by creating a dedicated team of Private Wealth The scale of our client base allows us to acquire extensive Management bankers. knowledge and expertise on life-cycle segments, tailor our services and dedicate specialised resources to these In the Netherlands we started offering our private banking segments. We seek to match relationship managers Risk, funding & capital services to a broader group of clients – people with at with the client segments that are closest to their field least EUR 500,000 in investable assets – allowing us to of expertise. Relationship managers with corporate reach active entrepreneurs, a younger generation with experience, for example, are assigned to the Active inherited wealth and the children of current private Entrepreneurs segment, while relationship managers banking clients. To achieve this, we increased the number with a focus on daily banking services are allocated of specialists in financial planning, income & wealth to the Eminent segment. advisory, and investment advisory. Clients have access to our extensive branch network and satellite locations as ​Staying relevant through our reach well as our direct channels, including the dedicated Advice We focus on a select number of markets so we can Leadership & Service Team with extended opening hours for basic remain relevant to clients while leveraging scale, growing banking needs. We work with client feedback, helping us critical mass and creating synergies. In 2016 we to take targeted action to improve our clients’ banking successfully completed the integration of our private experience with us. banking activities in Guernsey and Jersey into one Channel Islands business. We also transformed our By lowering our financial minimum requirements and representative office in Marbella into a branch, enabling Governance overall pricing for Discretionary Portfolio Management, we us to better serve clients with a residence in Spain. As have made this service accessible to more clients, helping private banking is a core activity of ABN AMRO, we will us to deliver our expertise to both private banking and further strengthen and grow our private banking activities retail clients more efficiently. We also pressed ahead in Northwest Europe. The planned transfer of our private with our initiatives to ensure clients receive a suitable banking business in Asia and the Middle East to LGT in investment proposition. 2017 is a logical next step in implementing this strategy. Annual Financial Statements Clear and appropriate advice Although we are providing our advisory services In-depth knowledge of our clients’ lives and an increasingly digitally, we continue to invest in our understanding of their complex financial situations and relationship management expertise to keep us as close unique needs at various stages of their lives allow us to to our clients’ lives as possible. In the Netherlands we tailor our services to their specific needs. In this light, we expanded our branch network with five satellite locations. launched life-cycle segmentation in the Netherlands in 2016. We want to be a trustworthy partner and to forge Client recognition long-term relationships with all our clients. At the same We believe meeting clients’ needs and providing clear, time, we have specific aims for specific groups of clients: appropriate advice are important elements of our broader Other our ambition for our Explore clients is to help them client experience. To ensure our clients receive the best accumulate wealth; for our Master clients to preserve service we ask our clients for feedback on a wide range ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 70 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction of topics related to their experience with us and measure We continued to deliver expertise and connect our the NPS. Our scores have been steadily improving over clients through our networks. In 2016 we held our Strategy the past years, and we now have an NPS of 5.7 overall for second Bethmann Forum in Germany, inspiring clients our international private banking services and -9 for our to exchange information and thought-provoking ideas. Dutch private banking services. We follow up on the Speakers shared their experiences in a constantly feedback by contacting clients and continuously improve changing world and talked about how innovation and coach our employees in order to improve the client empowers their businesses. experience where needed. Business We launched our first international seminar for Institutions Expertise and thought leadership & Charities in 2016. The event, held at ABN AMRO’s head Investing in our employees office in Amsterdam, gave participants an opportunity to We invest in our people’s personal and professional address strategic dilemmas on how to best define and growth, enabling our highly qualified employees to achieve impact in the non-profit sector. The programme continuously develop. In 2016 all our investment staff was organised in cooperation with the Centre for Social Risk, funding & capital completed the ABN AMRO Investment Professional of Innovation of Heidelberg University (Germany), offering a Tomorrow programme, a unique course developed by platform for participants to explore these challenges and INSEAD exclusively for ABN AMRO Private Banking. The share their experiences. We also held our annual Charities programme is designed to help investment professionals: ​​​​​ Congress for private banking clients in the Netherlands, ÅÅ Better understand risk and return in today’s dynamic where participants could exchange ideas on how to create investment landscape; impact through innovation. ÅÅ Better understand broader macroeconomic trends and financial markets; Strengthening client relationships through ÅÅ Familiarise themselves with the investment psychology digital services Leadership of high net worth individuals and family businesses; More digital ALTIJD business 5x basisregel A hoog! ÅÅ Gain a deeper understanding of the ABN AMRO investment process and service model. Connectivity of material topic 8 Link to Important to these See material topics We invested in training our employees in new capabilities, strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 18 such as giving remote advice. We also held our leadership Governance programme in the Netherlands in 2016, addressing the need for personal development and continuous improvement. Part of this programme is designed to give staff the tools As a leading modern private bank, we need to have they need to improve their vitality and to create an ‘outside-in’ a competitive digital offering, because our clients perspective by visiting inspiring clients. increasingly do business with us 24/7 through multiple channels. Digital services help clients receive our Annual Financial Statements Sharing our knowledge expertise efficiently and offer an inspiring and convenient Our dedicated specialists and Global Investment Committee client experience. on strategic and tactical decision-making keep our clients well informed of market developments. Our people We are investing in online and mobile innovations in respond alertly to industry developments and take rapid order to meet, and even exceed, our clients’ expectations. action to serve our clients. Examples are our reactions Our interactions with clients take place increasingly online to key issues in 2016, such as the Brexit vote and the US and via remote channels, so we continued to develop our elections, where clients, prospects and market watchers digital capabilities in 2016. were able to follow us easily, via client portals, media interviews and webinars. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 71 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction In Germany and France, for instance, we are designing an Our website was named the world’s number one private ambitious new digital platform that combines multi-channel banking website by MyPrivateBanking for the fifth Strategy services with personal interaction. We developed a consecutive year in 2016, and our Mobile Banking app multi-channel service offering and launched a ‘family and ranked number eight1 globally. friends’ pilot group in 2016 and, based on the results, plan to extend this to a broader audience in 2017. The service In line with bank-wide strategy and positive client is unique among traditional German private banks. feedback, we strive to be a frontrunner in innovative online, mobile and social media solutions. We devote Business We also added a new feature to our Mobile Banking app continuous attention to developments and improvements in the Netherlands enabling clients to place investment in this area, and our progress in innovation is monitored orders via the app easily using their secure five-digit code. by senior management. The app also provides current exchange rates for investment products in the portfolio and allows users ​ better private bank contributing to a better A to contact our investment line directly. world5xA ALTIJD basisregel hoog! Risk, funding & capital Multi-channel approach Connectivity of material topic 16 We continued to develop our remote advice capabilities in Link to Important to these See material topics 2016. Following the successful launch of Private LiveXpert, strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 19 we started piloting remote advice in our branches. We intend to equip all our branches for videoconferencing with clients in 2017. On the sustainability front, our ambition is to be a better We plan to deploy new channels that will keep our clients private bank contributing to a better world. We take Leadership up to date more effectively. Our online and mobile channels responsibility for the impact that our products and are used for portfolio reporting and investment proposals, services have on society. Our sustainability strategy and support our investment alerts. Webinars and a daily focuses on key areas which guide us and our clients news email, the Daily Focus, bring our clients the latest on the issues we need to address every day, including economic news and market insights as well as other news. sustainable finance and investment services. Governance We connect our clients with one another by organising When assessing clients and credit applications, we apply ­­dedi­­cated events for specific client segments and guidelines addressing possible ecological, social and ethical informal invest­ment platforms. This year we launched risks and we screen new clients by reviewing their activities an exclusive online platform where entrepreneurs can based on the bank’s sustainability risk policy and exclusion list. connect with investors. ABN AMRO is the world’s first financial institution to apply Annual Financial Statements Use and appreciation of the Private Banking Advice & the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework (in our Service Team for basic banking services has increased. reporting on 2015, published December 2016), including New initiatives have been identified and are being tested reporting on our efforts to promote human rights. to extend the team’s service offering. The Private Banking Advice & Service Team is currently piloting the use We offer philanthropy advice and support in setting up of WhatsApp for secure client interaction. tailored foundations for private banking clients in the Netherlands, France, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. Other 1 Source: MyPrivateBanking Research Report Mobile Apps for Wealth Management 2016 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 72 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction We invest in social enterprises and Social Impact Bonds experience. We will continue differentiating ourselves in the Netherlands through the ABN AMRO Social Impact based on our client proximity, knowledgeable staff and Strategy Fund. In 2016, for the third year in a row, the fund personalised service provided through the client’s channel continued to invest in Social Impact Bonds to support of choice. local employment and reintegration. Client-driven In 2016 we introduced Sustainable Investment Advisory, ​To better serve our clients, we will continue to develop in addition to the existing Sustainable Investment our expertise and deepen our segmentation model. Business Management Mandates. As one of the first private banks We will leverage our expertise and our networks in order in the Netherlands, we offer tailored investment advice to assist clients more effectively. For example, in 2017 to our private banking clients based on a selection of we plan to introduce coaches in the Netherlands for sustainable investment funds. Part of this selection is the the children of our clients to help them prepare for their FMO Privium Impact Fund, which offers a scalable solution financial future. Our ambition is to remain recognised for impact investing in emerging countries by co-investing for our advisory capabilities and segment-specific value Risk, funding & capital with the Dutch Development Bank FMO. The fund is propositions. We intend to enhance the client experience exclusively available at ABN AMRO. by innovating our wealth management insight & overview services. Our sustainable client assets increased to EUR 8.2 billion in 2016, up from EUR 6.4 billion in 2015. The increase in Invest in the future demand for sustainable investment solutions was driven ​We intend to further invest in digital and remote mainly by the introduction of a number of impact capabilities and explore advanced online wealth solutions investment funds, client-facing employees participating focusing on the key life-cycle moments in our clients’ in a course on sustainable investing and a marketing lives, so we can serve clients anytime, anywhere and Leadership campaign targeting private banking clients. In addition, in any way they want. we held a number of awareness sessions on sustainable investing for staff, clients (including institutions and We aim to launch a new digital platform for our clients in charities) and other stakeholders. Germany and France in 2017. The web portal will introduce a new way of communication between clients and Strong risk and regulatory framework relationship managers, enabling them to have chat Governance Under our risk management and regulatory framework, we conversations and receive alerts, relevant portfolio assess all private banking client files, including their sources information and market insights. In addition, a new app of wealth, against the highest standards. In 2016 we did is expected to be launched providing access to service this through a self-initiated and structured programme. teams and to account and portfolio details, anytime and anywhere. The platform is being developed according to agile principles, ensuring continuous development and Annual Financial Statements Strategic ambitions improvement. We will also continue to improve and ABN AMRO Private Banking is recognised internationally digitise our processes and reporting. as a leading private bank that offers clients self-directed, advisory and full-service banking services. Going forward, To accelerate our time-to-market, we plan to set-up we will continue to build a sustainable and client-focused multidisciplinary teams to develop and improve products private bank that is a leader in the markets in which we based on feedback from our clients. We are committed to operate. To this end, we are taking several initiatives to creating an organisation and culture based on trust, where reduce our cost base and simplify our organisation. We there is space for new ideas and new ways of working. expect these initiatives to free up resources for us to Our organisation will become simpler and have fewer invest in, for example, further segmenting our service layers. This will give our employees more autonomy and Other delivery model and enhancing our clients’ digital responsibility, making their work more meaningful. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 73 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction Moderate risk profile Sustainable growth ​Private Banking delivers consistent execution and focuses We aspire to gradually grow our business in the coming Strategy on prudent risk management for its clients and the bank, years. We aspire to enhance our activities in Northwest while providing distinctive products, services and advice. Europe while harmonising our IT platforms where Long-term volatility in the cost of risk is expected to be possible. Furthermore, we plan to introduce new digital low due to strict risk acceptance and monitoring criteria innovators for Private Banking. In the Netherlands and rationalisation of our product offering in alignment Private Banking aims to grow its market share of clients with the bank’s moderate risk profile. with investable assets of at least EUR 500,000. Business Financial review Operating results (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Risk, funding & capital Net interest income 645 589 9% Net fee and commission income 580 619 -6% Other operating income 89 101 -12% Operating income 1,315 1,310 0% Personnel expenses 501 501 0% Other expenses 544 549 -1% Operating expenses 1,045 1,050 -0% Operating result 269 260 4% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 20 -4 Leadership Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 249 264 -5% Income tax expense 50 49 2% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 199 214 -7% Special items Governance Reported profit/(loss) for the period 199 214 -7% Private Banking’s underlying profit decreased by Other operating income decreased to EUR 89 million EUR 15 million in 2016. The decline was the result of (2015: EUR 101 million). The decline was mainly due to higher impairment charges, partly offset by an increased lower trading income. The 2016 provision release related Annual Financial Statements operating result. to the sale of the Swiss private banking activities in 2011 (EUR 21 million) was offset by the sale of premises in Net interest income increased by EUR 56 million to 2015 and negative one-offs in 2016. EUR 645 million in 2016. This was mainly the result from higher margins on deposits, partly offset by lower average Personnel expenses ​​​​​​remained stable compared with 2015. lending volumes. Lower personnel expenses in the international activities were offset by higher personnel expenses in the domestic Net fee and commission income decreased by activities. The number of FTEs employed in Private EUR 39 million. Uncertainty and volatility in the financial Banking’s domestic activities increased in 2016 due markets, especially in the first half of 2016, had a negative to a transfer of employees from Retail Banking. Other impact on the stock markets. This led to lower average client assets and a decline in transaction volumes. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 74 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction Other expenses decreased by EUR 5 million compared The operating result improved by 4% compared with 2015. with 2015. The decline was mainly due to the favourable The underlying cost/income ratio decreased by Strategy settlement of an insurance claim in 2016 (EUR 24 million), 0.7 percentage points to 79.5%. several smaller provision releases and strict cost control. This was partly offset by higher regulatory levies Impairment charges on loans and other receivables amounted (EUR 18 million in 2016 versus EUR 11 million in 2015) to EUR 20 million compared with a EUR 4 million release in and higher allocated project costs for the continuous 2015. This was partly due to lower IBNI releases (EUR 3 million improvement of products, services and IT processes. in 2016 versus EUR 12 million in 2015) and specific additions Business in 2016 compared with a specific release in 2015. Other indicators 2016 2015 Underlying cost/income ratio 79.5% 80.2% Risk, funding & capital Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 13 -2 Gross margin on client assets (in bps) 67 65 1 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Loan-to-Deposit ratio 20% 25% Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 12.1 16.6 Due to customers (in billions) 61.8 66.5 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 7.7 8.2 Leadership FTEs 3,844 3,722 Loans and receivables customers decreased by Due to customers decreased by EUR 4.7 billion to EUR 4.5 billion in 2016. Of this decrease, EUR 3.4 billion EUR 61.8 billion at 31 December 2016. Of this decrease, was related to the reclassification of the private banking EUR 5.7 billion was related to the reclassification of activities in Asia and the Middle East to held for sale. private banking activities. Excluding the reclassification, Governance Excluding the reclassification, the decrease related to growth was mainly achieved in the Netherlands partly ​​​ both the domestic and international activities. related to internal client transfers from Retail Banking to Private Banking based on the lower threshold. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 75 Business / Business performance / Private Banking Introduction Client assets (in billions) 2016 2015 Opening balance Client assets 199.2 190.6 Strategy Net new assets (excl. sales/acquisitions) 0.6 1.5 Market performance 5.0 7.1 Divestments/acquisitions Other (incl. sales/acquisitions) -0.0 Closing balance Client assets 204.9 199.2 Breakdown by type Business Cash 67.6 66.5 Securities 137.2 132.8 of which custody 35.4 35.0 Breakdown by geography (in %) The Netherlands Risk, funding & capital 48% 48% Rest of Europe 44% 44% Rest of the world 9% 8% Client assets grew to EUR 204.9 billion at 31 December 2016. Net new assets1 amounted to EUR 0.6 billion in 2016 This was mainly due to a positive market performance in compared with EUR 1.5 billion in 2015. Net inflow in the 2016, especially in the second half of the year. Total client international activities was partly offset by net outflow assets includes EUR 17.9 billion related to the private banking in the Netherlands. In 2016 an amount of EUR 0.9 billion portfolio in Asia and the Middle East (held for sale). was due to internal client transfers from Retail Banking Leadership to Private Banking based on the lower threshold of EUR 500,000 in investable assets. The threshold in the Netherlands was lowered to open up services to a broader client group and to enable us to gain further market share. Clients are gradually being transferred to Private Banking. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 1 Net new assets include client transfers from Retail Banking and referrals from Corporate Banking. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 76 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction Through Econic, a launch pad for innovation, we join forces with start-ups. This creates the freedom necessary Strategy for inspiration and growth. Giving Voice to Value Business Read more in our supplement ’Initiatives in 2016’ or watch the video: abnamro.com/econic Corporate Banking Risk, funding & capital services based on in-depth client and sector knowledge. Approximately 70,000 clients with In Northwest Europe and globally, we focus on selected annual turnover exceeding EUR 1 million sectors in which we are strengthening and expanding our existing positions, realising cross-business line synergies Leading player in the Netherlands with and leveraging core capabilities. Leadership a capability-led international growth strategy for selected sectors in Northwest Our key strengths are our existing market positions and Europe and globally strong brand name, our relationship-driven business International presence in key financial model combined with a dedicated sector approach and and logistical hubs in-depth expertise, and our clear focus on risk management. Governance Extensive, in-depth sector expertise In 2016 we further strengthened our sector-based and product capabilities organisation and deepened our in-depth sector expertise. At the same time, we pursued controlled international growth in Northwest Europe and selected sectors globally. We increased our focus on digitalisation and innovation Overview and introduced an agile way of working to support our Annual Financial Statements Corporate Banking is an established business partner strategic goals. of the Dutch corporate sector with a strong domestic franchise and a focused international strategy. We serve Looking ahead, we believe that our key strengths equip clients both in the Netherlands and internationally with us to adapt to challenges relating to changing client needs, our client-centric, relationship-driven business model and economic conditions, technological developments, new extensive sector expertise. In the Netherlands, our clients market entrants and new regulations such as MiFID II are active in all sectors of the Dutch economy. We offer a and Basel IV. broad range of standard and tailor-made products and Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 77 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction Key figures Corporate Banking CORPORATE Stakeholder Metrics Stakeholder Metrics Strategy Clients Net Promoter Society at large Percentage of Score1,2 2016 2015 loans in book 2016 2015 with ESE indicator5 6 -2 57% 38% Business Employees Employee Investors Underlying 2016 2015 engagement3,4 2016 2015 net profit (in millions) 876 596 81 75 Underlying Risk, funding & capital cost/income ratio 62.2% 62.2% 1 Source: TNS NIPO, Greenwich and MVM2. The set-up of the NPS surveys differs among the business lines. 2 NPS for Corporate Banking is composed of the NPS results of Commercial Clients (4,142 respondents) , Large Corporates (120 respondents), ECT Clients (263 respondents) and ABN AMRO Clearing (229 respondents) weighted by actual operating income of the respective segment. 3 Source: Willis Towers Watson. Annual survey, total number of respondents: 4,893. 4 2016 score based on revised measurement method. For more details on employee engagement, please see ‘Employee engagement’ in the Group performance section. 5 Percentage of loan book with environmental, social and ethical (ESE) indicator. For the definition of abovementioned concepts, please refer to ‘Definitions and other important terms’. Leadership Business developments with clear and appropriate advice. For example, the To support clients and meet their changing needs, sector-based approach has been rolled out within all Corporate Banking pursues a strategy based on four business lines of Corporate Banking and Risk. Sector cornerstones: i) Our expertise, ii) Our growth, iii) Our teams work together across business lines to promote digitalisation and innovation, and iv) Our way of working. knowledge-sharing, expand networks and create commercial opportunities – not just within, but also Governance Expertise ALTIJD A 5x basisregel hoog! across sectors. Connectivity of material topic 1 6 Within Commercial Clients we have taken the next step Link to Important to these See material topics by creating a more sector-based organisation. We have strategy stakeholders and connectivity on established client portfolios devoted to specific sectors. page 18 This enables our relationship managers to focus on one Annual Financial Statements specific sector and to work in close collaboration with all relevant networks within and outside the bank. The sector The first cornerstone of our strategy is our expertise. Clients expertise of relationship managers is supported by prefer a partner who understands them and the challenges ABN AMRO’s Sector Advisory knowledge centre. they face, gives them expert advice and puts their interests Moreover, our sector orientation has been adopted by our first. This requires financial know-how, knowledge of Risk Management and Financial Restructuring & Recovery market trends, and an understanding of the opportunities departments. Furthermore, we started to roll out sectorand risks in the sectors in which our clients are active. specific training programmes to ensure our staff has in-depth and relevant sector knowledge. Sector-based organisation Other We believe we have laid a solid foundation on which to We introduced a benchmark tool at the end of 2016 to give build our sector expertise in order to provide our clients clients sector-specific and quantitative insight into their ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 78 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction performance compared with their peers. This information client experience. To measure and improve the client can be used to engage our clients in a dialogue about their experience, we carefully monitor our clients’ satisfaction Strategy business operations. level and regularly ask for feedback on our products and services. Our sector-based organisation makes us a valuable strategic partner for our clients, enabling us to deliver first-class We are proud to report a positive Net Promoter Score service and clear, appropriate advice. Management devoted for 2016 of +6.2 for all of our client segments combined, a great deal of attention to client centricity in 2016, reflecting which is an improvement of 8.0 points compared with the Business the importance we attach to putting our clients’ interests first. 2015 score. In particular the Net Promoter Scores for ECT Clients and ABN AMRO Clearing improved. The NPS for Meeting clients’ needs Commercial Clients showed a slight decline. We are taking We aim to provide clients with the best possible solutions the necessary steps to address this and are carefully in today’s rapidly-changing environment. We attach great monitoring how this NPS is developing. We use the value to the drivers of our Net Promoter Score and we results of the Net Promoter Score to coach our employees Risk, funding & capital continuously engage with our clients to better understand in continuously optimising the client journey. We started their wishes and challenges, enabling us to support them rolling out closed-loop feedback in 2016: a short survey is where needed. For example, in Transaction Banking we conducted after each client interaction, which relationship introduced Multi Payment Services together with our managers use to take follow-up action. This enables us to partner EMS, which offers our business clients a one-stop learn from our clients and to improve the client experience. shop for payment solutions. We also made it possible for these clients to access their debit card revenues within Our efforts to put clients’ interests first were also 24 hours, including on weekends and holidays. And in recognised by other parties in 2016. MT Finance the final quarter of 2016 ABN AMRO introduced iDIN in magazine named ABN AMRO Best Corporate Bank in the Leadership partnership with the Dutch Payments Association. iDIN Netherlands for the fourth consecutive year and we were allows consumers to identify themselves securely and ranked number one in eight out of twelve categories. easily. This gives our business clients more certainty ABN AMRO also won four prestigious Euromoney awards, about the identity of their customers, facilitates further including the award for Best Investment Bank for the digitalisation of their services and increases conversion Netherlands. Our number one position in the annual rates for online sales. Thomson Reuters Extel Awards shows how much Governance clients value our services as an equity broker. In addition, In today’s market, small and medium-sized businesses find Global Finance magazine named ABN AMRO the Best it difficult to identify suitable finance providers. ABN AMRO Investment Bank in the Netherlands, and chose has joined forces with NEOS and Achtergestelde Leningen ECT Clients as Global Best Bank for Commodity Finance. Fonds to grant clients alternative financing funded by profes­ABN AMRO Clearing was recently named Proprietary sional investors. The proposition with NEOS made ABN AMRO Traders’ Clearing Firm of the Year 2016 for the fourth Annual Financial Statements the first Dutch bank to bring entrepreneurs in the Netherlands year in a row at the Future & Options World International directly into contact with a supplemental financier when Awards. Furthermore, ABN AMRO Lease won the multi-layered financing is their solution of choice. Leasing Life award in the category Middle Ticket Corporate Lessor and at the Sustainable & Responsible Capital Additionally, we introduced several initiatives to improve Markets forum, we were named Most Impressive Bank our service in lending. In the event of an interest rate Green/SRI Bond Issuer. review, we give clients a longer period of time to consider their options. Also, we lowered costs for early redemption. Growth We believe our sector expertise distinguishes us from other Client recognition banks in the Netherlands and around the world, giving us Other We believe meeting clients’ needs and providing clear, a solid foundation for growth. Apart from growth in the appropriate advice are important elements of our broader Netherlands, 27% of Corporate Banking’s revenues were ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 79 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction generated internationally in 2016, 2 percentage points up also be done online – 24/7, quickly and easily. The new from last year. We saw worldwide growth in ECT Clients Corporate Banking environment on abnamro.nl went live Strategy and ABN AMRO Clearing and in asset-based finance in in 2016, including new features such as meeting requests Northwest Europe. We took further steps in 2016 to support to discuss financing and insurance. We also launched the bank in achieving its sustainable growth ambition. the Corporate Banking portal. Clients in the Netherlands now only have to log in once in order to access a whole In Northwest Europe we are pursuing controlled growth in array of online applications, information and services, selected sectors of the mid to large corporates segment e.g. a financial dashboard including rates. Business and in financial institutions. We are focusing on our neighbouring countries Germany, France, Belgium and the Innovation ALTIJD A 5x basisregel hoog! United Kingdom, where we already have a solid presence with asset-based finance, International Desks, Capital Connectivity of material topic 8 Markets Solutions and Financial Institutions, and where Link to Important to these See material topics we can leverage our existing private banking presence. strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 18 Risk, funding & capital Corporate Banking’s activities outside Europe include ECT Clients, Financial Institutions, Sales & Trading and ABN AMRO Clearing. In ABN AMRO Clearing we aim We believe in the power of innovation and co-creation. to maintain our top three position globally, which we Collaboration with start-ups and scale-ups is essential in demonstrated in 2016 by delivering a strong performance order to make a difference in the competitive landscape. in Europe, Asia and the Americas. We pursue this in our day-to-day business and have also introduced specific organisational initiatives. A prime We want to pursue controlled international growth by example is the Econic innovation hub that Commercial Leadership targeting sectors that are closely linked to our existing Clients opened in Eindhoven in 2016. Here, fintechs and activities. In ECT Clients we plan to expand into adjacent other companies with new ideas for business banking sectors of the existing business by adding Natural work with our employees in an independent environment Resources and a global proposition for Food. We set up to co-develop and test their ideas against the bank’s ­­­ local teams for both of these sectors at the end of 2016. day-to-day reality. We are also widening our focus in the Energy sector into Governance Canada and Australia and target renewable energy and Early in the year ABN AMRO Clearing invested in the utility clients worldwide. We enlarged our geographical American technology company Digital Asset Holdings. This footprint in March with the official opening of the Shanghai partnership gives us direct access to high-grade blockchain branch, allowing us to better serve our ECT Clients with technology and its applications. We also launched a business in China. large-scale TKI Dinalog project in cooperation with 14 partners, including the Port of Rotterdam, where we apply Annual Financial Statements Digitalisation and innovation blockchain technology applications to the logistics sector. Digital transformation and innovation are another cornerstone of our strategy. We seek to add value by At the end of 2016, we introduced a product developed combining the knowledge and creativity of our people in-house called Gradefix. With Gradefix, we use our with the power and speed of technology, while always strong risk management skills and advanced analytics to ensuring data protection and privacy. generate an analysis and risk rating based on payment data. We offer Gradefix to corporates, making it easier for Digitalisation them to do business. A Gradefix rating can be used to We have already achieved tangible results on the digital select tenants, trading partners or borrowers, for example. front in recent years. We intend to integrate our financial Other and sector expertise into our digital client proposition, Our progress on innovation is monitored by senior so that ultimately anything that can be done offline can management in ABN AMRO’s Innovation Board. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 80 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction Way of working and work commenced in 2016 on the transformation of more Achieving our digital and innovation ambitions calls for than 50,000 square metres of commercial property, which Strategy a new way of working with a short time-to-market. To will result in four new sustainable office buildings in the near respond to our clients’ needs more swiftly and effectively, future. In order to finance this, ABN AMRO developed its we are introducing the agile way of working across the first official Green Loan together with the client.​​​​​​​ organisation. At present, more than 100 teams within ABN AMRO already work according to agile principles and Following up on its first green bond issued in 2015, within Corporate Banking we have started to adopt this ABN AMRO successfully issued a second one in 2016. Business method too. Working according to agile methods gives The EUR 500 million transaction attracted a great deal employees more autonomy and end-to-end responsibility, of interest from sustainable investors and gave us an which increases job satisfaction and helps us retain and opportunity to share our expertise with our clients. As a attract talented employees. The new way of working also result, we were mandated to issue green bonds for Berlin requires a focus on personal development, with more Hyp, Tennet and Deutsche Kreditbank. emphasis on adaptability, passion for clients and their Risk, funding & capital business, and collaboration. ABN AMRO is a partner of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative, which aims to make the shipping sector more Sustainable banking sustainable. We are one of the leading banks to develop In pursuing our ambitions in the areas of expertise, growth, responsible ship recycling standards, which form an digitalisation and innovation, and our way of working, we integral part of loan documentation. The Anthony Veder are committed to sustainability and sound risk management. EUR 66 million Euro Private Placement transaction, solely arranged by ABN AMRO in the fourth quarter of 2015, was Sustainability ALTIJD A 5x basisregel hoog! confirmed as the first sustainable shipping loan in 2016 and was fully certified according to the Clean Shipping Index Leadership Connectivity of material topic 16 Standard. Bureau Veritas verified the green credentials of Link to Important to these See material topics this landmark transaction in the global shipping industry. strategy stakeholders and connectivity on page 19 ABN AMRO’s Social Impact Bond is a promising tool that puts private funds to work in order to solve social problems and gives government agencies more opportunities to Governance We are integrating sustainability into our daily business address social issues. A number of Social Impact Bonds were operations. We are introducing screening of all potential launched in 2016. Together with the Ministry of Justice and clients to ensure they meet our sustainability standards. Security, Corporate Banking invested in a programme to Engaging with them on their sustainability performance reintegrate former prisoners into society. We also launched a allows us to conduct effective assessments and identify new Social Impact Bond with the Dutch cities of Enschede opportunities for improvement. We made good progress and Eindhoven, with the aim to reduce unemployment. Annual Financial Statements on this front in 2016. ​Reliable and Responsible Banking We have set ambitious sustainability targets for our Real Reliable and Responsible Banking is a bank-wide Estate Clients business line for 2018. This includes a lending programme aimed at optimising our client acceptance portfolio consisting of 30% energy A label real estate, and review process and improving client acceptance files. financing of 300,000 square metres of redeveloped real The new global Corporate Banking Client Acceptance and estate and innovative initiatives. We made funding available to Anti Money Laundering policy was implemented, and we support clients in making their real estate more sustainable started reviewing files for most business lines in 2016. and we developed an application that gives real estate owners information on energy-saving possibilities, including potential Active risk management Other carbon reduction. ABN AMRO also announced a collaboration In line with ABN AMRO’s moderate risk profile, Corporate with real estate developer OVG to redevelop vacant buildings, Banking has a strong focus on risk management and is ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 81 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction continuously seeking opportunities to furtherstrengthen AFM and has appointed PwC as independent reviewer. its risk management capabilities. Commercial Clients Implementation of the Uniform Recovery Framework will Strategy enhanced its credit management by transforming its start in Q1 2017. credit control from time-based to risk-based. A systematic approach is employed for assessing the risk of clients, detecting early warning signals, increased and enhanced Strategic ambitions monitoring of higher risk profiles and undertaking Our overall aim is to be the best corporate bank, both in mitigating actions. the Netherlands and internationally. Our strategy is in line Business with the four long-term strategic priorities of ABN AMRO: Although major economies in general recovered in 2016, client-driven, invest in the future, moderate risk profile many of our ECT Clients faced challenging market and sustainable growth. circumstances due to low prices of major commodities which have not fully recovered and overcapacity in certain Client-driven shipping segments. We carefully consider the cyclicality in We will continue to integrate our sector approach into Risk, funding & capital relation to lending policies, financing structures, advance our organisation by adding sector focus to management, rates and active risk management. We continue to closely culture and performance and further leverage our monitor the impact of these market developments and we expertise in order to be a distinctive partner for our clients. perform sensitivity analyses and stress testing exercises As part of our drive to put clients’ interest first, we expect periodically to gain insight into the credit performance to continue investing in digitalisation and innovation and under price scenarios, economic scenarios and risk implementing the agile way of working for all employees measures. We are working proactively with our clients involved in the design of our products, channels, systems to restructure debt in an early stage if needed. and processes. This should help them work in a more flexible and client-centric manner. Leadership Review of interest rate derivatives files In 2015 ABN AMRO started a review, at the request Invest in the future of both the AFM and the Dutch Ministry of Finance, We are developing several initiatives to strengthen to determine whether the bank had acted in accordance our digital capabilities and enhance our service offering with its duty of care obligations with respect to the through new partnerships, including fintechs and s­ tart-ups. sale of interest rate derivatives to SME clients. In We intend to invest in the future by further embedding Governance December 2015 the AFM announced that it had found sustainable banking in our credit approval processes. the review performed by banks to be insufficient. In light We also plan to continue investing in the empowerment, of this finding, the Dutch Minister of Finance appointed skills, knowledge and development of our employees. a committee of independent experts (the Committee) to develop a Uniform Recovery Framework in consultation Moderate risk profile with the participating banks. On 5 July 2016 the Committee ​In accordance with the bank’s risk appetite, we are strongly Annual Financial Statements presented the Uniform Recovery Framework and on that committed to maintaining a moderate risk profile. We have same date ABN AMRO announced it would adhere to it. a strict credit policy and execute this policy in a highly A pilot was initiated by the participating banks to refine disciplined manner, and we have embedded this in our the Uniform Recovery Framework and processes in order international growth ambitions. To strengthen our moderate to prepare for execution. During a Parliamentary Hearing risk profile, we aim to deepen our sector expertise and on 22 September 2016, ABN AMRO expressed its continue to focus on asset-based financing, a sustainable commitment to compensate clients for potential damage loan-to-deposit ratio and risk-return capital allocation. suffered in line with the Uniform Recovery Framework. The pilot phase was finalised in December and the Sustainable growth Committee presented the final version of the Uniform Our pursuit of sustainable growth has led to controlled Other Recovery Framework on 19 December 2016. ABN AMRO worldwide expansion in ECT Clients and ABN AMRO presented its final execution plan in January 2017 to the Clearing, as well as in asset-based finance in Northwest ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 82 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction Europe. We are strengthening existing key positions product expertise. We drive performance by maintaining and expanding further into Northwest Europe and into our focus on sustainable growth and increasing cost Strategy selected sectors globally by leveraging our sector and efficiencies, both in the Netherlands and internationally. Financial review Operating results (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Net interest income 2,280 2,142 6% Business Net fee and commission income 751 751 Other operating income 175 227 -23% Operating income 3,207 3,120 3% Personnel expenses 680 676 1% Risk, funding & capital Other expenses 1,316 1,264 4% Operating expenses 1,995 1,940 3% Operating result 1,211 1,180 3% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 31 419 -93% Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,180 762 55% Income tax expense 305 165 84% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 876 596 47% Leadership Special items -271 Reported profit/(loss) for the period 605 596 1% Corporate Banking’s underlying net profit increased by Net interest income increased by EUR 138 million to EUR 280 million to EUR 876 million in 2016. The key EUR 2,280 million. The improvement was recorded drivers for the improvement were a rise in operating in all segments. Governance income and a sharp decrease in impairment charges. This was partly offset by increased operating expenses Commercial Clients posted a modest rise in net interest including an execution costs provision for SME derivativesincome of EUR 44 million to EUR 1,349 million. Margins on related issues (gross amount of EUR 55 million). loans and deposits increased as well as average deposit volumes. Average loan volumes were lower compared with Commercial Clients and International Clients contributed 2015 due to a reallocation of a portfolio to Group Functions Annual Financial Statements EUR 694 million and EUR 196 million respectively to the in Q4 2015. Both years were impacted by the provision for underlying profit of Corporate Banking. Capital Markets SME derivatives-related issues. Solutions made an underlying loss of EUR 14 million. Net interest income in International Clients increased by Corporate Banking’s reported net profit increased by EUR 35 million to EUR 744 million, benefiting from growth in EUR 9 million to EUR 605 million in 2016. In Q2 2016, the the ECT Clients loan portfolio (mainly international). This was addition to the provision for SMEs with derivative-related partly offset by lower margins on deposits. issues of EUR 361 million gross (EUR 271 million net of tax) was classified as a special item. This provision Net interest income in Capital Markets Solutions improved by was taken based on ABN AMRO’s decision to adhere EUR 59 million to EUR 186 million, mainly at Sales & Trading Other to the advice of the committee of independent experts (partly due to favourable one-offs as a result of collateral on the reassessment of SME interest rate derivatives. management). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 83 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction Net fee and commission income remained flat at Other expenses grew by EUR 52 million compared with 2015 EUR 751 million. Higher fees due to more cleared volumes due to a provision at Capital Markets Solutions for SME Strategy at Capital Markets Solutions were offset by lower fees at derivatives-related issues (EUR 55 million) and higher project International Clients. costs for continuous improvement of products, services and IT processes (including TOPS 2020). This was partly offset by Other operating income went down by EUR 52 million to EUR 27 million lower regulatory levies (EUR 96 million in 2016 EUR 175 million in 2016. The decrease was driven versus EUR 122 million in 2015) and several smaller by lower tax-exempt results on the Equity Participations favourable one-offs in 2016. Business portfolio due to less favourable market conditions (including the ongoing low oil price). Moreover, the CVA/DVA/FVA The operating result went up by EUR 31 million to results were EUR 51 million lower compared with 2015 EUR 1,211 million in 2016. At 62.2%, the underlying (EUR 2 million negative in 2016 versus EUR 49 million positive cost/income ratio in 2016 remained flat compared to 2015. in 2015). This was partly offset by lower additions to the provision for SME derivatives-related issues current year. Impairment charges on loans and other receivables amounted Risk, funding & capital to EUR 31 million, down by EUR 388 million compared with Personnel expenses amounted to EUR 680 million in 2016, 2015. The decrease in impairment charges is fully recognised up by EUR 4 million compared with 2015. Personnel expenses in Commercial Clients due to the further broad recovery of increased due to higher pension expenses and a growth the Dutch economy. Slightly higher impairment charges in in the number of FTEs, partly offset by lower restructuring International Clients were offset by lower additions in Capital provisions in 2016. Markets Solutions. In 2016 an IBNI release of EUR 136 million was recorded for Corporate Banking, compared with a EUR 125 million release in 2015. Leadership Other indicators 2016 2015 Underlying cost/income ratio 62.2% 62.2% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1, 2 3 47 1 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and Governance excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Loan-to-Deposit ratio1 137% 121% Total client loans (excluding netting adjustment, in billions)1 75.2 68.3 Due to customers (excluding netting adjustment, in billions)1 60.7 62.9 Annual Financial Statements Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 54.9 55.1 FTEs 5,138 4,959 1 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Total client loans (excluding netting adjustment) increased leading to higher utilisation of credit lines for commodity by EUR 6.9 billion to EUR 75.2 billion at 31 December 2016, clients, and the strengthening of the US dollar (see also largely due to an increase in loans at International Clients the Risk chapter). (mainly ECT Clients). Growth over 2016, especially in the fourth quarter, was supported by an increase in oil prices, Due to customers (excluding netting adjustment) decreased by Other EUR 2.2 billion to EUR 60.7 billion at 31 December 2016. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 84 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction Commercial Clients Operating results Strategy (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Net interest income 1,349 1,305 3% Net fee and commission income 202 205 -2% Other operating income 57 13 Operating income 1,608 1,524 6% Operating expenses 859 861 Business Operating result 749 663 13% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables -179 213 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 928 450 106% Risk, funding & capital Income tax expense 234 121 94% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 694 329 111% Special items -8 Reported profit/(loss) for the period 686 329 109% Other indicators 2016 2015 Underlying cost/income ratio 53.4% 56.5% Leadership Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1, 2 -46 53 1 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Governance Total client loans (excluding netting adjustment, in billions)1 37.7 37.0 Due to customers (excluding netting adjustment, in billions)1, 2 34.0 34.8 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 20.6 21.5 1 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 Due to customers included an internal transfer of deposits from Commercial Clients to Capital Markets Solutions (mainly Q1 2016). Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 85 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction International Clients Operating results Strategy (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Net interest income 744 709 5% Net fee and commission income 223 232 -4% Other operating income 9 104 -92% Operating income 976 1,044 -7% Operating expenses 516 522 -1% Business Operating result 460 522 -12% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 211 191 11% Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 249 331 -25% Risk, funding & capital Income tax expense 53 40 34% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 196 292 -33% Special items Reported profit/(loss) for the period 196 292 -33% Other indicators 2016 2015 Underlying cost/income ratio 52.8% 50.0% Leadership Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1, 2 59 56 1 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Governance Total client loans (excluding netting adjustment, in billions)1 37.5 31.3 Due to customers (excluding netting adjustment, in billions)1, 2 14.9 19.0 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 24.4 22.6 1 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 Due to customers included an internal transfer of deposits from Commercial Clients to Capital Markets Solutions (mainly Q1 2016). Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 86 Business / Business performance / Corporate Banking Introduction Capital Markets Solutions Operating results Strategy (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Net interest income 186 127 46% Net fee and commission income 326 314 4% Other operating income 110 110 Operating income 622 551 13% Operating expenses 619 555 12% Business Operating result 3 -3 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables -2 15 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 4 -18 Risk, funding & capital Income tax expense 18 6 Underlying profit/(loss) for the period -14 -24 42% Special items -263 Reported profit/(loss) for the period -277 -24 Other indicators 2016 2015 Underlying cost/income ratio 99.6% 100.6% Leadership Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 -1 9 1 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Financial assets held for trading (in billions) 1.6 1.7 Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 15.4 13.1 Governance Financial liabilities held for trading (in billions) 0.8 0.5 Due to customers (in billions) 1 11.7 9.1 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 9.9 11.0 1 Due to Customers included an internal transfer of both Commercial Clients and International Clients to Capital Markets Solutions (mainly Q1 2016). Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 87 Business / Business performance / Group Functions Introduction Staff can now easily exchange knowledge worldwide thanks to Connections, the Strategy bank’s social collaboration platform. Giving Voice to Value Business Read more in our supplement ’Initiatives in 2016’ or watch the video: abnamro.com/connections Group Functions Risk, funding & capital accounting standards and requirements set by the Group Functions was organised into four regulatory authorities. Finance consists of the following main departments in 2016: Technology, main departments: Financial Accounting, Controlling, Operations & Property Services (TOPS), ALM, Treasury and Tax. Finance, Risk Management & Strategy Leadership (RM&S) and People, Regulations & Identity Risk Management & Strategy (RM&S) (PR&I). Group Audit and Corporate Office A strong, sustainable bank relies on sound risk are also part of Group Functions. management. Risk Management secures a sound risk/ return ratio based on a moderate risk profile. The bankwide risk appetite determines our moderate risk profile. All different events or risk types to which the bank is Governance Technology, Operations & Property Services exposed are defined and categorised in the risk taxonomy. (TOPS) Risk Management identifies and manages all the risk TOPS supports the Group by providing services in the types classified in the risk taxonomy. The Risk, funding & areas of IT (software and hardware), operations, facility capital management section of this report elaborates on management, information security, procurement, and the bank’s risk model, risk taxonomy and risk approach. programme and project management in the Netherlands Annual Financial Statements and internationally. TOPS consists of the following People, Regulations & Identity (PR&I) main departments: IT, Operations, Facility Management The primary responsibility of PR&I is to help the Group’s and COO. businesses put clients centre stage by managing human resources, ensuring compliance with regulations and Finance managing the bank’s corporate identity and reputation. PR&I Finance helps keep the Group on track to achieve the goals aims to prevent financial losses arising from abuse of the defined in its long-term strategy. Finance is the primary financial system by the Group’s clients and/or employees and supplier of management and reporting information to to prevent reputational damage arising from the unethical the Group’s internal and external stakeholders. It plays an behaviour of clients, the Group and/or its employees. independent role in delivering management information and PR&I consists of five departments: Human Resources, Other challenging business decisions. Finance provides a strong Compliance & Conduct, Legal, Security & Intelligence financial control environment and ensures compliance with Management and Communications & Sustainability. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 88 Business / Business performance / Group Functions Introduction Financial review Operating results Strategy (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Net interest income -2 44 Net fee and commission income -52 -68 23% Other operating income 163 197 -17% Operating income 108 172 -37% Personnel expenses 1,125 828 36% Business Other expenses -720 -695 -4% Operating expenses 405 133 Operating result -297 39 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables -15 -8 -89% Risk, funding & capital Operating profit/(loss) before taxation -282 48 Income tax expense -36 160 Underlying profit/(loss) for the period -245 -112 -119% Special items Reported profit/(loss) for the period -245 -112 -119% Group Functions’ underlying result was EUR 245 million Net fee and commission income increased by EUR 16 million, Leadership negative in 2016 compared with a loss in 2015 as partly driven by lower fees paid to Capital Markets well (EUR 112 million). The loss in 2016 was due to Solutions related to securities financing activities. EUR 348 million restructuring provisions related to the announced reorganisation of the control and support Other operating income decreased by EUR 34 million activities (Q3) and digitalisation and process optimisation compared with 2015 primarily as lower hedge accounting(Q4 2016). In 2015 the loss was impacted by a tax-exempt related results were recorded in 2016 (EUR 39 million Governance provision related to the part of the securities financing in 2016 versus EUR 182 million in 2015). Moreover, activities discontinued in 2009. no CVA/DVA results were recorded in 2016 compared with favourable CVA/DVA adjustments in 2015 Net interest income decreased by EUR 46 million compared (EUR 27 million positive). This was partly offset by profit/ with 2015 as the interest result came down, in line with revaluation gains on stakes in Visa Europe (EUR 14 million) the flattening of the yield curve (partly offset by ABN AMRO’s and Equens (EUR 52 million). Both years included taxAnnual Financial Statements duration strategy. More information is provided in the exempt provisions related to the part of the securities Market risk in the banking book paragraph). Moreover, financing activities discontinued in 2009. interest paid on cash deposits with the ECB increased due to higher average volumes and more unfavourable Personnel expenses, at EUR 1,125 million in 2016, went (negative) rates. Both were partly offset by lower funding up by EUR 297 million compared with 2015. The increase costs on Dutch State funding (Dutch State Treasury Agency) was due to EUR 321 million of restructuring provisions following a partial redemption in 2016. Lastly, both years related to the announced reorganisation of the control included tax-exempt provisions related to the part of the and support activities (EUR 144 million in Q3 2016) and securities financing activities discontinued in 2009. digitalisation and process optimisation (EUR 177 million in Q4 2016). This was partly offset by several smaller Other restructuring provisions recorded in 2015. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 89 Business / Business performance / Group Functions Introduction Other expenses decreased by EUR 25 million as more costs higher projects costs for continuous improvement of were allocated to the commercial segments compared products, services and IT processes (including the TOPS Strategy with 2015. Expenses increased by EUR 82 million as 2015 2020 and Retail Digitalisation programmes). included some favourable incidentals, including a EUR 35 million release related to DSB and a VAT return, Income tax expense in both 2016 and 2015, the latter more partly offset by a final settlement (EUR 55 million) with severely, were negatively impacted by the reassessment Vestia (a Dutch housing corporation). The year 2016 of our tax position and the tax-exempt provision related to includes a EUR 13 million restructuring provision for office the part of the securities financing activities discontinued Business space (plus EUR 14 million accelerated depreciation) and in 2009. Other indicators 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Risk, funding & capital Securities financing assets 12.9 15.5 Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 7.8 7.9 Securities financing liabilities 10.5 10.2 Due to customers (in billions) 1.8 2.3 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 9.8 9.9 FTEs 7,416 7,522 The number of FTEs decreased by 106 to 7,416 following Leadership the announced reorganisation of the control and support activities (Q3 2016) and digitalisation and process optimisation (Q4 2016). Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 90 Business / Responsibility statement Introduction Responsibility statement Pursuant to section 5:25c sub 2 part c of the Dutch Strategy Financial Supervision Act, the members of the Managing Board state that to the best of their knowledge: ÅÅ The Annual Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Business profit or loss of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and the companies included in the consolidation; ÅÅ The Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs on the balance sheet date and the course of business during the financial year 2016 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and of its affiliated Risk, funding & capital companies, of which data is included in its Annual Financial Statements; ÅÅ The Annual Report describes the material risks with which ABN AMRO Group N.V. is faced. Amsterdam, 14 March 2017 The Managing Board Leadership Kees van Dijkhuizen, Chief Executive Officer Johan van Hall, Vice-Chairman Wietze Reehoorn, Chief Risk Officer Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Introduction Risk, funding & capital Strategy This section discloses comprehensive information on risk Business management, capital adequacy and funding. Some disclosures in this section contain audited information and are an integral part of the Annual Financial Statements. Risk, funding & capital 92 Introduction to Risk, funding 122 Risk, funding & capital review & capital management Key developments 123 Leadership Balance sheet composition 129 95 Credit risk 130 Market risk 164 Operational risk 167 Liquidity risk 169 Risk, funding & capital management Funding172 Governance Risk approach 95 Capital177 Credit risk management 102 Sustainability risk 187 Market risk management 109 189 Operational risk management 112 Funding & liquidity risk management 114 Capital management 116 Annual Financial Statements Business risk management 117 Sustainability risk management 118 Additional risk, funding Management Control Statement 119 & capital disclosures Other 92 Risk, funding & capital / Introduction to Risk, funding & capital management Introduction Introduction to Risk, funding & capital management Strategy This section provides an introduction to the Risk, funding & capital section. As the Business Risk, funding & capital section includes information according to both EU IFRS and CRD IV/CRR, more information on scope differences and consolidation is provided. Contents internal capital adequacy measurement and the supervisory Risk, funding & capital review, and Pillar 3 relates to disclosures on capital and risk Risk, funding & capital management to encourage market discipline. ABN AMRO has incorporated This chapter provides more information on the Group’s the relevant Pillar 3 disclosures in this Annual Report. approach to risk, funding and capital management by describing strategy, policies, governance and The Pillar 3 disclosures are prepared in accordance measurement approaches. with the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR). Pillar 3 disclosures are labelled as ‘Pillar 3’ in the respective headings. Risk, funding & capital review The portfolio composition and developments are EU IFRS 1 Leadership described in the Risk, funding & capital review section. Some disclosures in the Risk, funding & capital section This section also describes developments in the are an integral part of the Annual Financial Statement Group’s major risk types and regulatory capital. (AFS) and contain audited information. The audited parts concern disclosures on financial instrument risk (IFRS 7) Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures and presentation of financial statements (IAS1). Audited This chapter provides an overview of additional disclosures information in these sections is labelled as ‘audited’ Governance required under current regulations. in the respective headings. Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) 1 Regulatory requirements v1 The Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) was formed The Risk, funding & capital section incorporates the in 2012 in order to enhance the risk disclosures of banks disclosures required under the Dutch Financial Supervision and other financial institutions. The EDTF is an industry Annual Financial Statements Act (Wet op financieel toezicht Wft), the EU Capital work group with wide geographical representation, including Requirements Regulation (CRR), Title 9 Book 2 of the senior executives from leading financial institutions. Dutch civil code and IFRS. Furthermore, ABN AMRO On 29 October 2012, the EDTF together with the embraces the EDTF principles and recommendations. Financial Stability Board (FSB) published a report with 32 recommendations on how to enhance risk disclosures. Pillar 3 disclosures 1 ABN AMRO embraces the EDTF principles and The objective of Pillar 3 disclosures is to inform existing recommendations and has implemented the vast majority and potential investors in ABN AMRO on how the of the 32 recommendations. For 2016, ABN AMRO reaffirms organisation manages risk and capital adequacy. Pillar 3 its commitment to the EDTF report and enhanced its EDTF disclosures are part of the Basel framework, which is disclosures, including certain recommendations from the Other based on the three-pillar concept. Pillar 1 details the EDTF 2015 progress report. EDTF disclosures are labelled minimum capital requirements, Pillar 2 relates to the as ‘EDTF’ in the respective headings. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 93 Risk, funding & capital / Introduction to Risk, funding & capital management Introduction Risk exposure measurement and Regulatory reporting scope v scope differences v The scope of consolidation for the purpose of calculating Strategy Risk measures differ depending on the purpose for which regulatory and economic capital (based on the CRD IV exposure is calculated: EU IFRS, determination of regulatory and CRR) is generally the same as the consolidation scope capital or economic capital (CRD IV/CRR). EU IFRS is mainly under EU IFRS and includes subsidiaries directly or indirectly used to measure the bank’s financial results and position. controlled by ABN AMRO that are active in the banking Regulatory and economic capital are more suitable for and finance sectors. However, subsidiaries consolidated certain risk measurement purposes because of the under EU IFRS that are active in sectors other than Business following: EU IFRS classifies the financial position by class banking and finance are excluded from the regulatory of product, whereas the objective of Regulatory reporting scope of consolidation. The table below describes the is to take a risk-sensitive view on the bank’s portfolio and differences in consolidation for the purpose of calculating to ensure that sufficient capital buffers for unexpected regulatory capital requirements and for the purpose losses and sufficient liquidity buffers are maintained. of financial reporting under EU IFRS. In addition, the financial position according to EU IFRS Risk, funding & capital provides a liquidity view instead of a credit view. ABN AMRO applies CRD IV/CRR for determining its regulatory and economic capital and is subject to the EU IFRS reporting scope 1 reporting requirements imposed by its joint supervisors, The consolidation scope of ABN AMRO is determined in the European Central Bank and the Dutch central bank accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (DNB). The capital and related reporting requirements and IFRS 11 Joint arrangements. More information can in the CRD IV/CRR apply under the following scopes: be found in note 1 to the Annual Financial Statements. ÅÅ ABN AMRO Group N.V. consolidated; In accordance with IAS28 associates, participations and ÅÅ ABN AMRO Bank N.V. solo with its Dutch subsidiaries joint ventures engaged in financial and non-financial activities and foreign branches (solo consolidation); Leadership are accounted for on an equity basis. These investments ÅÅ International Card Services B.V. solo are recognised at cost and increased or decreased by ÅÅ Sub-consolidated application for ABN AMRO ABN AMRO’s share of the profit or loss of the entity after Clearing Bank N.V., Banque Neuflize OBC S.A., acquisition. Further details on reconciliation between Bethmann Bank A.G., ABN AMRO Bank accounting (EU IFRS) and regulatory framework exposures (Luxembourg) S.A. are provided in the Risk management section. Governance ABN AMRO has acquired waivers to apply the capital and related reporting requirements on a solo basis to its Dutch credit subsidiaries. Sub-consolidated reporting is not applicable to the credit institution subsidiaries in the Netherlands, with the exception of ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. Annual Financial Statements The Dutch credit institution subsidiaries are ABN AMRO Bank N.V., ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V., ABN AMRO Groenbank B.V., ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep B.V. and International Card Services B.V. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 94 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management Introduction Differences in scope of consolidation between EU IFRS and regulatory reporting v Capital treatment under Strategy Financial reporting the Capital Requirements Entity under EU IFRS Regulation Main related entities Insurance companies Fully consolidated entities The required capital is based on ABN AMRO Captive N.V., White engaged in insurance activities. the equity investment in insurance Rock Insurance (Gibraltar) PCC entities. Limited/Cell, ABN AMRO Life Capital Belgium N.V., ABN AMRO Life S.A. Subsidiairies engaged in This category includes entities The required capital is based Sumsare N.V., ABN AMRO Arbo Business non-banking and nonengaged in non-financial on the equity investment in Services B.V., Landgoed Duin & insurance subsidiairies activities, which are consolidated these subsidiaires. Kruidberg B.V. in accordance with IFRS requirements. Associates, participations Accounted for on an equity basis. Accounted for on an equity basis. Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Risk, funding & capital and joint ventures engaged Verzekeringen Holding B.V. (NC), in non-financial activities AACBOF NEBO B.V. (INV), Alma Maritime Ltd., MP Solar B.V. (NC), Aline Holding S.A. (NC) (see note 22 of the Annual financial statements for more information). Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 95 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Risk, funding & capital management Strategy This section provides an overview of the Group’s risk, funding and capital management approach, including strategies, measurement approaches and the Business risk governance framework. Portfolio developments are described in the Risk, funding & capital review section. Risk approach Risk, funding & capital ABN AMRO is committed to being a well-capitalised bank return implications of our operations on an ongoing basis. with sufficient liquidity that focuses on delivering sustainable Based on ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy, the bank has value to its stakeholders. We are committed to a sound defined five key objectives with regard to risk management, risk/reward and to maintaining a bank-wide moderate risk which are presented below. profile. We thoroughly evaluate the long-term risk and Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 96 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Strong focus on collateralised lending Clean and strong Loan portfolio matches deposits, long-term debt and equity Strategy balance sheet Strategic focus to limit LtD ratio Limited market risk and trading portfolios Our loan book is fully aligned to our strategic choices and focus areas: Diversification Loan book safeguarded against concentrations through Risk Appetite to sectors, single clients and countries Business and focus in Concentration developments monitored and reported monthly portfolio Focused growth in Corporate Banking in neighbouring countries and selected industries worldwide Diversification via digital challengers Capital and liquidity indicators exceed existing regulatory requirements Sound capital Liquidity buffer steered to manage regulatory compliance and internal views Risk, funding & capital and liquidity Costs for liquidity buffer charged to business to ensure proper pricing incentives management Stress testing used to steer capital & liquidity Sustainable relationships with clients centre stage: long-term interest above short-term gains Sustainability Sustainable business operations (sustainable products, risk management, ecological footprint and a vital organisation) and Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society transparency Sustainable and transparent finance and investment services Credit risk mainly in the Netherlands and diversified across the economy Leadership Structured Operational risk monitored and controlled by setting limits on potential losses approach on risk intake Market risk low in comparison to size of the bank and monitoring Business risk continuously monitored; create a culture of innovation in a constantly changing banking landscape Governance Risk management strategy vA Main building blocks of our moderate risk profile Annual Financial Statements Risk taxonomy Three lines of defence Risk governance Risk appetite Risk measurement & reporting Moderate risk profile Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 97 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction ALTIJDprofile Risk v27 5x basisregel hoog! outlook are discussed on a monthly basis in the Managing Board and on a quarterly basis by the Supervisory board Connectivity of material topic 12 Strategy based on the Enterprise Risk Management report. Link to Important to these See material topics strategy stakeholders and connectivity on The following sections describe the five building blocks page 19 of our moderate risk profile. For more information with regard to the balance sheet composition, please refer to the Risk, funding & capital review section. Business As part of the bank’s long-term strategy, we want to maintain a moderate risk profile. The risk profile is Risk taxonomy b managed based on an integrated risk management Our risk taxonomy is the classification of risks into risk framework. In this framework, all risk types, cross-risk types to which the bank is, or could be, exposed. It is types and overarching risks are identified to provide one reviewed and updated on a yearly basis to ensure that integrated view on the bank’s risk profile and on the risk all material risks are identified, defined and taken into Risk, funding & capital profile of the businesses. This is a yearly process involving account in the risk governance framework. It creates a the relevant stakeholders and subject to the approval of common risk vocabulary, provides a checklist of types the Managing Board. By looking at the overall, integrated of risks for use in risk assessments, assists in assuring risk profile, we strive to carefully balance actions to that all material risks are managed and that roles and manage the risk profile within the moderate risk profile. responsibilities are identified. Senior management continuously monitors the bank’s ABN AMRO’s risk taxonomy is summarised in the activities based on the risk appetite. The status and following figure. Leadership Risk taxonomy NIEUW 2016 Internal & external causal factors Enterprise risk Other risk dimensions Governance Credit risk Operational risk Concentration risk Change risk Market risk Liquidity risk Model risk Reporting risk Banking book Business risk Strategic risk Tax risk Annual Financial Statements Trading book Legal risk Reputational risk Compliance & Conduct Risk Value of the bank The main risk types are credit, market, operational, liquidity (including sustainability risk) and model risk, are risk types and business risk. These risks are discussed later in this that emphasise specific aspects applicable to several risk section. Other risk dimensions such as reputational risk types in the risk taxonomy. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 98 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Risk appetite b contain guidelines that give a qualitative explanation of The risk appetite determines the level and nature of risk the boundaries of ABN AMRO’s moderate risk profile. Strategy that the bank is willing to take in order to pursue its strategy, To ensure that ABN AMRO employees act in a risk-aware taking all relevant risks and stakeholders into consideration. manner and in accordance with the ABN AMRO values The risks covered in the risk taxonomy are included in and business principles1, we included the guidelines as the risk appetite. an overarching principle this year. The keywords of these guiding principles are shown in the following figure: The key guiding principles for risk appetite provide a Business translation of the moderate risk profile statement and Keywords of the key guiding principles for the risk appetite Risk, funding & capital Client centricity Understanding risks Maintaining a liquidity buffer Sustainable banking Managing credit Maintaining a Avoiding risks capital buffer surprises Limiting currency and interest rate positions Respecting rules Avoiding concentration risks and regulations Leadership The keywords and key guiding principles are further risk profile is embedded in the risk culture by means of detailed in risk appetite parameters, including: communication and training and is monitored through ÅÅ Minimum levels for capital ratios; performance assessment. Governance ÅÅ Risk-adjusted return measures; ÅÅ Concentration limits for single counterparties; Employees are expected to be aware of the drivers of our ÅÅ Concentration limits for countries and industry sectors; risk profile and to feel accountable for the risks they take. ÅÅ Liquidity ratios (Loan-to-Deposit ratio, LCR and NSFR); Part of the training curriculum is the Integrated Risk ÅÅ Market risk ratios; Management course, which is mandatory for all Risk ÅÅ Operational risk ratios. Management employees. The course emphasises the Annual Financial Statements importance of taking a holistic view of risks. We also The bank-wide risk appetite is an integral part of our introduced the course to most employees of the corporate strategy. Business-line specific risk appetite International Clients segment in 2015, and it was rolled statements further specify the bank-wide risk appetite out to employees of Commercial Clients in 2016. at business line level. Furthermore, employees are expected to adhere to the ABN AMRO business principles1. These principles are Risk culture 6 fundamental to everything we do and describe how we The bank has a continuous focus on risk awareness as an act as a bank, how we take decisions, and how we deal integral part of the bank-wide risk culture. The moderate with various dilemmas. Other 1 The business principles were applied for most of 2016 and were replaced by the culture principles when we updated the strategy in the third quarter of the year. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 99 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction We place strong emphasis on sound risk control in our The Risk Management organisation operates under the compensation policies. ABN AMRO’s remuneration policy direct responsibility of the Chief Risk Officer, who is a Strategy is in line with our risk profile. More details are provided member of the Managing Board. The Managing Board has in Remuneration in the Governance section. overall responsibility for the risks that ABN AMRO takes. Three lines of defence Risk governance bv5 The three lines of defence principle provides a clear division The Risk Governance Charter defines ABN AMRO’s Risk of activities and responsibilities in risk management at Business governance and decision framework (delegated authorities different levels in the bank and at different stages in the and mandates). The Risk Governance Charter is in place to life cycle of risk exposures. The three lines of defence support an efficient and effective Risk Control Management principle is summarised in the following figure. throughout, and at all levels of, the bank. Risk, funding & capital Three lines of defence bv 1 1st Line of Defence Business 2 2nd Line of Defence Risk control functions 3 3rd Line of Defence Audit Risk ownership Risk control Risk assurance Leadership Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Risk taking and owning the risk Setting frameworks, rules and advice Evaluating the design and effectiveness Transaction execution Approval of risk intake of governance, risk management Acting in accordance with policies Monitoring, reporting, and risk control and control processes, agreeing with Effectiveness of risk control Ensuring 1st line takes risk ownership management on solutions and monitoring follow-up Governance Executive committees that are of material significance to the risk profile, The Managing Board is ultimately responsible for a capital allocation and liquidity of ABN AMRO. Additional balanced assessment between the commercial interests information is provided in the Governance section. Annual Financial Statements of the bank and the risks to be taken within the boundaries of the risk appetite. The Supervisory Board is responsible for approving ABN AMRO’s risk appetite statements and supervises In the risk decision-making framework, the Managing whether our commercial interests, capital allocation Board is supported by three executive (risk) committees: and liquidity requirements in general terms comply Group Risk Committee, Central Credit Committee and with the bank’s risk appetite. The Supervisory Board Asset & Liability Committee, each of which is (jointly) also oversees the risk governance and execution chaired by a member of the Managing Board. The other of ABN AMRO’s strategy as performed under executive committees also decide on risk-related issues, the responsibility of the Managing Board. in the presence of Risk Management representatives. Other In addition, the Managing Board itself takes decisions ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 100 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Group Risk Committee The modelling departments develop the models in close The Group Risk Committee (GRC) is mandated by the cooperation with the relevant business and risk experts. Strategy Managing Board to monitor, assess and manage our risk In principle, we review the models annually. This means profile in relation to the risk appetite. The GRC is, for that we back-test the models against historical data and, example, responsible for establishing a product approval where relevant, benchmark the calibration of the models process to ensure we only accept risks that we understand with external studies. and that serve the interests of clients, and for the adequate functioning of this process. The GRC may delegate specific The independent Model Validation Department validates Business approval powers to subsidiary risk committees, but remains all internal models. Validation guidelines ensure objectivity, responsible on behalf of the Managing Board. The terms consistency, transparency and continuity. Models are and conditions of the delegation of authority with respect validated according to these principles and reviewed to risk policies, methodologies and new products are against internal and regulatory requirements. specified in the Risk Governance Charter. New models first require formal internal and external Risk, funding & capital Central Credit Committee approval before implementation and use is allowed. The Central Credit Committee (CCC) is mandated by Internal approval for the (continued) use of a model is the Managing Board to decide on credit proposals that obtained from the Methodology Acceptance Group (MAG), have a significant impact on our credit portfolio. In certain a sub-committee of the Group Risk Committee. When cases, the CCC decisions require final approval by the required, external approval is obtained from the regulator. Managing Board. Capital Asset & Liability Committee Regulatory capital (CRD IV/CRR) bv The Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO) is mandated Under the Basel framework banks are required to hold Leadership by the Managing Board to decide on our interest profile, capital to cover the financial risks a bank faces. For Pillar 1 liquidity profile and solvency position within the risk the capital requirement is based on the aggregated appetite. The ALCO is responsible for the management risk-weighted assets (RWA) for the three major risk of liquidity, market risk in the banking book and capital. types (credit, operational and market risk). The capital requirements are stated as a percentage (set by the regulators) of the RWA. Governance Risk measurement v2 We develop and use internal models to quantify the risk Economic capital for most risk types in the risk taxonomy. The models for In addition to regulatory required capital, for Pillar 2, credit, operational, market, liquidity, and business risk are we calculate economic capital (EC). Economic capital the most widely used and allow for measuring the level of covers all risk types in our risk taxonomy, for which risk. They support day-to-day decision-making as well as capital is deemed to be the mitigating instrument to Annual Financial Statements periodic monitoring and reporting on developments in cover unexpected losses, and is used as the key metric the bank’s portfolios and activities. In most cases, models for internal risk measurement and management. It is quantify the probability and severity of an event, i.e. the the amount of capital we reserve in order to achieve a likelihood that an event occurs and the loss the bank may sufficient level of protection against large unexpected suffer as a consequence of that event. This serves as the losses that could result from extreme market conditions basis for ABN AMRO’s internal measures of risk (economic or events. capital) and are key input for the calculation of the minimum regulatory capital requirements according to the Basel framework (regulatory capital). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 101 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Internal models are used to calculate EC on a 99.95% Stress testing purposes confidence level and a one-year time horizon. This implies ABN AMRO applies bank-wide stress testing based on Strategy that the estimated capital figure for the coming year is internally defined scenarios for the following purposes: sufficient to cover a level of loss that will be exceeded ÅÅ Risk-appetite monitoring: the outcome of stress testing in only 0.05% of all possible situations. is used for monitoring risk appetite limits and targets, including limits under stress. If the stress test outcome EC is aggregated for all risk types to determine the total breaches a limit, mitigating actions will be considered EC at bank level and to support capital allocation, ex-post to close the shortfall. The impact is taken into account Business performance measurement and risk-appetite setting such in the capital and funding planning; as industry concentration risk limits. EC is also used at ÅÅ Contingency planning: stress testing is used to assess transactional level in loan-pricing tools. These tools act as and strengthen the contingency plans’ triggers and a decision-making mechanism for assessing the profitability measures. To this end, reverse stress testing is executed of a new or existing transaction, in terms of risk-adjusted to gain insight into plausible events that could put the return on risk-adjusted capital (RARORAC). continuity of ABN AMRO under pressure. Risk, funding & capital EC Quality Assessment The Scenario & Stress Test Committee (a sub-committee The EC models described above form the core of the of the Group Risk Committee) and the Managing Board Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), discuss and decide on scenario selection, the results but may not capture all risks. As part of the ICAAP, we and implications. perform an annual EC Quality Assessment (ECQA). For each main risk type the calculated EC figure is evaluated Scenario analysis in the following areas: In addition to bank-wide stress testing, we regularly ÅÅ Risk coverage; perform scenario analyses for relevant portfolios to test Leadership ÅÅ Responsiveness to internal and external developments; their resilience on specific risk metrics. The scenarios ÅÅ Data quality; are often adverse in nature and may vary in severity. ÅÅ Compliance with EC policy; ÅÅ Validity of choices and assumptions. If considered necessary, an additional capital buffer (‘EC Governance add-on’) is taken to cover shortfalls in the EC framework. Stress testing b8 ABN AMRO uses stress testing as an important risk management instrument. Stress testing assists us in identifying our risks and vulnerabilities. It therefore helps Annual Financial Statements to increase risk awareness throughout ABN AMRO. Moreover, it also aims to safeguard business continuity by means of proactive management and the review of potential future scenarios. Bank-wide stress testing, as applied by us, takes into account the effect of material plausible but unlikely events and developments on the bank. These events may be systemic (e.g. multi-year macroeconomic stress) or ABN AMRO-specific and cover capital as well as liquidity. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 102 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk that the value and/or the earnings Credit risk management approach bv Strategy of the bank decline due to uncertainty in a counterparty’s We manage our credit risk either through customised ability or willingness to meet the terms of a financial contract. lending to counterparties, under which risk assessment takes place on an individual basis (Non-Programme Credit risk management within the bank is governed by Lending), or through standardised products and Business the bank-wide central credit risk policy and further detailed processes, for which risk criteria are assigned on a in underlying specific credit risk policies. The primary pooled basis (Programme Lending). Effectively, any responsibility for managing and monitoring credit risk lies lending not defined as Programme Lending is defined with the business as the first line of defence. Monitoring as Non-Programme Lending. by the first and second lines of defence takes place on a permanent and ongoing basis, with a view to keeping The credit risk life cycle Risk, funding & capital credit risk exposures within the limits of the business The process of credit risk management, the credit risk life line’s risk appetite. cycle, is illustrated in the following figure. Credit risk life cycle: differs by type of loan Credit acceptance Credit risk monitoring Restructuring Loan approval and Business and risk control and Recovery disbursement functions jointly responsible High-risk monitoring NonRisk assessment Leadership by business line Programme Regular monitoring1 Restructuring lending Analysis and credit Increased risk decision by credit risk Customised loans, function mostly Private Governance Recovery Continual update of risk Banking and Intensive monitoring2 governance, management (‘Watch’) Corporate Banking Loan disbursement and policies Processes reflect guidelines for credit risk management For programme lending, Credit decision based Annual Financial Statements product specific standards on credit score and policy rules Account maintenance Restructuring are established Programme lending Standardised loans, mostly Loan disbursement Default prevention Recovery Retail Banking 1 Daily monitoring, annual or semi-annual credit review. For more insight on our credit portfolio please refer to the 2 ‘Watch’: status assigned to counterparties with an increased risk. Credit risk chapter in the Risk, funding & capital review section. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 103 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Planning Restructuring, where a plan is devised either for Within Programme Lending, the credit cycle starts with a rehabilitation or to increase the likelihood of final Strategy product planning phase in which the product is designed repayment. In all other cases, the credit facility is and/or reviewed with the goal of optimising its key drivers transferred to Recovery. of risk and return. When a default status is assigned to a Programme Credit acceptance Lending contract because payments have been past due Within Non-Programme Lending, the credit acceptance for more than 90 days or another default trigger applies, Business phase of a credit proposal starts with an assessment the client is transferred to restructuring and, ultimately, of the credit proposal by the business line and Risk if this is not effective, to internal departments or external Management. All credit risk must be assessed parties (such as Lindorff) for debt collection. qualitatively and quantitatively in detail prior to approval. Information must be provided on matters such as the If it is likely that a client will be able to meet its future purpose, details and structure of the proposed credit payment obligations and involvement of FR&R is no longer Risk, funding & capital facility, the obligor and other counterparties, the industry, required, the client is transferred back to the business. management and owners, and financial and non-financial analysis. The credit decision is based on independent assessments of both the commercial function and the Credit risk measurement bv2 credit risk function. We use internal models to measure the credit risk in exposures to individual clients and portfolios. These For a credit approval decision within Programme Lending, models quantify their Probability of Default (PD), Loss client-specific aspects and internal/external data are taken Given Default (LGD) and Exposure at Default (EAD). into consideration to calculate a credit score (scorecard). The models vary from purely statistical models to expertLeadership The credit decision is based on the outcome of the based models and are based on quantitative as well as scorecard and policy rules. qualitative risk drivers. Using input values for the risk drivers, the models calculate PDs, LGDs and EADs. EAD Credit risk monitoring is established on a monthly basis using actual limits and Consistent and regular monitoring is designed to outstanding exposure data. PD and LGD are determined safeguard the bank’s position in relation to all risks at least annually. Governance associated with the counterparty or portfolio. Monitoring starts when the credit facility has been provided and The model estimates are embedded in the credit continues throughout the life cycle of the credit facility approval and internal reporting processes, in order to and the relationship with the counterparty. calculate economic capital and the minimum regulatory capital requirements under the Basel Advanced Internal A ‘watch’ status may be assigned to individual Ratings Based (AIRB) approach, and serve as input Annual Financial Statements counterparties with an increased risk. The watch status for the RARORAC, the bank’s key metric for risk-adjusted allows for more intensive monitoring, early detection performance. of deterioration of the credit portfolio and appropriate follow-up measures. Exposure at Default Exposure at Default models estimate the expected Restructuring & Recovery exposure at the time of a counterparty default. In the event Credit facilities with an identified high risk are transferred that all or part of a facility is undrawn (the outstanding to the Financial Restructuring & Recovery department exposure is less than the limit) at the time of the calculation, (FR&R). In the event of a default situation, transfer to a percentage of this undrawn amount is added to the FR&R is mandatory. If a ‘going concern’ approach is exposure to reflect the possibility that a larger part of the Other applicable and return to a performing status is deemed facility is utilised when the event of a default materialises. possible, the credit facility is transferred to Financial ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 104 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Probability of Default We consider a default to have occurred when: The probability of default (PD) is the likelihood that a ÅÅ The counterparty is overdue more than 90 days, or; ÅÅ The bank considers the obligor to be unlikely to meet Strategy counterparty will default within a one-year time horizon and is expressed in an internal uniform counterparty rating its contractual obligations. (UCR). The UCRs range from 1 to 8 and a PD percentage is attached to each UCR grade. Our internal rating scale comprises five categories, of which Investment grade and Sub-investment grade correspond Within Program Lending, Retail Banking and smaller credits with the equivalent classifications of the rating agencies. Business of Corporate Banking, products with the same characteristics are pooled and a PD is assigned to each pool. Internal rating scale mapped to external ratings bv2 Risk, funding & capital Grade Category UCR (internal Low High Standard & Poor's Moody's Fitch rating) PD% PD% equivalent equivalent equivalent from to from to from to from to Investment grade UCR 1 UCR 30.000% 0.465% AAA BBBAaa Baa3 AAA BBBSub-investment grade UCR 4+ UCR 6+ 0.465% 100% BB+ C Ba1 C BB+ C Default with an impairment allowance of zero UCR 6 UCR 6 D D D D D D Default with an impairment allowance > zero UCR 7 UCR 7 D D D D D D Leadership Default (in liquidation) UCR 8 UCR 8 D D D D D D Loss Given Default economic value (mark-to-market) basis, so that loss ​Loss Given Default (LGD) models estimate the economic estimates can be based not only on defaults of the loss that results from a credit facility in the event that the obligors, but also on possible credit migrations and Governance counterparty defaults. It is expressed as the ratio of the associated changes in the market values of loans. loss on an exposure to the amount outstanding at default. The models use specific facility and counterparty characteristics and collateral pledged to the bank. Specific counterparty credit risk v2l Capital for credit risk Specific calculation methodologies are applied for Annual Financial Statements Regulatory capital counterparty credit exposure on over-the-counter (OTC) All exposure classes are reported under AIRB. Within derivative instruments and for securities financing. these exposure classes, a number of smaller portfolios are temporarily or permanently calculated according to the OTC derivative instruments Standardised Approach (SA). OTC derivatives are financial instruments used to cover current and/or future financial risks or to achieve additional Economic capital return on an investment. They consist of transactions The EC model for credit risk uses a Monte Carlo concluded between two parties and of which the value is simulation to determine a full portfolio loss distribution, based on a so-called underlying base value (e.g. interest taking into account specific portfolio characteristics and rates, foreign exchange rates, commodities, equities). Other diversification effects. Loan facilities are valued on an ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 105 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Securities financing transactions component forms part of the deal, a counterparty and the Securities financing in the balance sheet refers to underlying issuer are in a similar industry, or in the same Strategy securities lending. Securities lending is the market activity country or geographical region. whereby securities are temporarily transferred from a lender to a borrower, subject to the commitment of re-delivering the securities, usually in the short term. The Credit concentration risk­ bv borrower collateralises the transaction with cash or other Credit concentration risk is the risk of loss due to the securities of equal or greater value than the lent securities insufficient diversification of risks within a portfolio, caused Business in order to protect the lender against counterparty credit by relatively large concentrations of exposures to positively risk. As an intermediary between clients and the market, and highly correlated counterparties. Positively correlated we act both as lender and borrower. counterparties are counterparties that are likely to default under similar circumstances. Limiting excessive Regulatory and economic exposure calculation concentrations is fundamental to our credit risk strategy. for specific counterparty credit risk Therefore, we aim to keep the credit risk portfolio Risk, funding & capital The regulatory calculation methodology applied for sufficiently granular and diversified. calculation of the counterparty credit risk exposure value (EAD) for OTC derivative instruments is the mark-toTo avoid excessive credit risk concentrations, market method. Risk Management sets maximum levels for subgroups in the following categories: The economic counterparty credit risk exposure calculation ÅÅ Single clients and groups of related clients of OTC derivative instruments is based on the mark-to(counterparty concentration); market (MtM, i.e. current exposure) plus an add-on for ÅÅ Countries (geographic concentration); potential future exposure. The add-on is calculated to ÅÅ Industry sectors (industry concentration). Leadership cover 95% of the potential positive MtM movement in favour of the bank for the entire deal tenor. The add-on Counterparty concentration is determined by several parameters, such as type of Counterparty concentration credit risk is the risk of loss derivative product (underlying), deal tenor, currency arising from relatively large exposures to counterparties (pair) and the absence or presence of netting and belonging to the same risk group. The total exposure, or collateral agreements. One Obligor Exposure (OOE) on a risk group, includes Governance all drawn and undrawn facilities granted plus all indirect For securities lending, the Financial Collateral Comprehensive exposure to the relationship, including guarantees and any Method (FCCM) is used in the regulatory calculations. other recourse claims. A risk group is an interrelated group For economic counterparty exposure calculations, of counterparties (companies and/or persons) with a high the FCCM is applied with additional conservatism. degree of dependency. This interrelationship may be due to direct or indirect majority interests by the same Annual Financial Statements Wrong-way risk shareholder or group of shareholders, or due to other This risk refers to transactions whose counterparty relevant economic dependencies. Counterparty credit credit exposure arising from OTC or Securities Lending concentration risk is measured by the OOE and the transactions is positively correlated to the counterparty’s Economic Capital (EC) per counterparty. The EC is the probability of default. Or, put differently, the credit exposure amount of capital the bank should hold to cover unexpected increases when the credit quality of the counterparty losses within a certain confidence level over a one-year deteriorates. In general, we do not engage in such specific horizon. The bank limits its counterparty credit risk by wrong-way risk transactions. Furthermore, we are prudent setting OOE and EC limits. Additionally, all credit applications in considering transactions for which this correlation is less with an OOE above a certain threshold are reviewed obvious, e.g. transactions where a general wrong-way risk by the Managing Board. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 106 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Geographic concentration eligibility criteria are met, collateral can also help reduce The bank has a number of offices located outside the the required level of regulatory capital and economic Strategy Netherlands and clients who operate internationally. capital held by the bank. The bank is therefore exposed to country risk, which is the risk of credit losses due to country-specific events Collateral is monitored at least once annually to ensure or circumstances. Management of country risk focuses continued eligibility and correct reporting of the collateral on cross-border risk, which includes the risk that funds, value. For reporting purposes we use the net collateral goods or services cannot be transferred out of a country value, the expected recovery value of the collateral in Business as a result of actions by local authorities or by other the event of a defaulted client. events impeding the transfer. These risks are managed by setting country credit limits, based on individual country We also use guarantees to mitigate risks. For example analyses by economic and country risk experts. Country from banks, governments and export credit agencies. limits are reviewed at least once a year. Each country also The credit quality of guarantors is assessed at origination has an internal credit rating approved twice a year, which and monitored to ensure the correct valuation of the Risk, funding & capital is an important factor in managing country concentration guarantee for risk mitigation purposes. risks. Approval of country risk policy and country limits is managed through the bank’s senior risk committees. Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net Industry concentration amount is reported on the IFRS balance sheet if there is a Industry concentration risk is the risk of loss arising from a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts relatively large aggregated credit exposure to counterparties and there is either an intention to settle on a net basis or active in a single industry. Industry concentration risk an intention to realise the asset and settle the liability arises when deterioration in a specific industry has an simultaneously. The bank applies netting to debtor and Leadership effect on all credit exposures relating to that industry. creditor balances, such as current accounts, where ABN AMRO limits its industry concentrations by setting offsetting is justified by formal agreement with the client, credit risk economic capital (EC) limits as a percentage provided they meet these criteria. of total credit risk EC per industry sector. In addition to these EC limits, EC concentration checkpoints are set Enforceable master netting agreements to facilitate timely and sufficient management or similar instruments Governance interventions to avoid breaching the limit. Enforceable master netting arrangements take into account all agreements with provisions that make offsetting exercisable in the event of default. In addition, agreements Credit risk mitigation vz are enforceable if the bank has the right to offset and does Credit risk mitigation mainly relates to collateral not have any ability and/or intention to offset simultaneously. management and guarantees, offsetting financial assets These arrangements include derivative clearing agreements, Annual Financial Statements and liabilities, and enforcing master netting agreements global master repurchase agreements and global master or similar instruments. securities lending agreements. Collateral management and guarantees Collateral represents assets with material value and an Forborne, past due and impaired loans attached security right, such as a mortgage, charge, bj pledge, lien on an asset, or other right securing obligations Loans at risk are primarily exposures for which signals have under a credit facility or other exposure which gives the been detected indicating that the counterparty may become bank priority rights on the proceeds of that asset. impaired in the future. Loans at risk are classified into Requiring a security right for a clients’ collateral is a way different risk categories for individual counterparties and days Other to mitigate or reduce credit risk associated with a credit in arrears buckets for groups of aggregated counterparties, facility or exposure. In addition, if certain predefined in order to optimise monitoring and review of these loans. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 107 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Forbearance Impaired credit exposures The process of making concessions for clients, with In order to simplify our reporting and improve Strategy the purpose of keeping them afloat, is referred to as comparability with our peers, ABN AMRO aligned the ‘forbearance’. We consider a forborne asset to be any definition of default and impaired in the third quarter of contract under which the counterparty experiences, or is 2016. As a result, clients in default without an impairment about to face, financial difficulty and for which the terms allowance are now also considered to be impaired. and conditions of the contract have been modified or the contract has been refinanced by the bank due to these A loan is impaired if there is objective evidence that the Business financial difficulties on terms that we would not have bank will not be able to collect all amounts due in accepted (concession) if the counterparty had been accordance with the contractual terms (principal and financially healthy. interest) and/or one of the default triggers is applicable. An indication that a loan may be impaired is obtained Forbearance can take place at different stages during the through ABN AMRO’s credit review processes. client’s financial difficulty. Forbearance measures can be Risk, funding & capital applied to a contract that has defaulted on its obligations Impairment as well as to a contract that is still performing. A contract Triggers for impairment include, but are not limited to, that is in the process of being recovered and for which the events such as significant financial difficulty, likeliness that client relationship will be discontinued is not, or no longer, the client will enter bankruptcy or financial restructuring, considered forborne. negative equity, recurring payment problems, improper use of credit lines and legal action by other creditors. A forborne asset will only cease to qualify as forborne once all of the following conditions have been met: ABN AMRO makes a distinction between three types ÅÅ The contract is considered performing; of impairment losses: Leadership ÅÅ A minimum probation period of two years has passed ÅÅ Specific impairment losses for individual, significant from the date the forborne contract was considered exposures: If significant doubts arise regarding performing; a client’s ability to meet its contractual obligations, ÅÅ Regular payments of more than a significant amount management of the relationship is transferred to the of principal or interest have been made during at least Financial Restructuring & Recovery department (FR&R). half of the probation period; The amount of the specific impairment loss is based Governance ÅÅ The counterparty does not have any contract, within on the discounted value of the best estimate of future the credit agreement, that is more than 30 days past cash flow. Recognised specific impairment losses are due at the end of the probation period. partly or fully released when the debt is repaid or expected future cash flows of the customer improve If the forborne contract is or becomes non-performing, due to positive changes in economic or financial a mandatory cure period for non-performing forborne circumstances; Annual Financial Statements exposures of at least one year is applicable before the ÅÅ Collective impairment losses for individual, not-significant contract may return to a performing status. This cure exposures: Assets with similar credit risk characteristics period starts when the contract becomes non-performing are clustered in portfolios. The assets in the portfolios or from the moment the last forbearance measure was are collectively assessed for impairment. In general, taken if the contract was already non-performing. when payments (interest or principal) are 90 days past due, the loan is identified as impaired. The impairment Past due credit exposures assessment is based on historical loss experience A financial asset is past due if a counterparty fails to make adjusted for current economic conditions. Factors that a payment on the contractual due date or if the counterparty are taken into account are average life, past loss has exceeded an agreed limit. ABN AMRO starts counting experience and portfolio trends; Other days past due from the first day that a counterparty is past due on any financial obligation, regardless of the amount. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 108 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction ÅÅ Incurred but not identified (IBNI): IBNI impairment losses Accounting policy on impairment of loans are recognised for impairment losses that have been and receivables b Strategy incurred but still have to be identified at the balance A loan is impaired if there is objective evidence that sheet date. Specific or collective impairment assessment the bank will not be able to collect all amounts due in has therefore not yet taken place. All financial assets accordance with the contractual terms (principal and that are not yet assessed for impairment are included interest). The objective evidence indicates that the in the IBNI impairment loss calculation. All related borrower’s credit quality has deteriorated and the off-balance items such as credit commitments are also estimated future cash flows in the related financial assets Business included. The IBNI calculation combines the Basel II have been impacted negatively. The amount of impairment concept of expected loss on a one-year time horizon loss is the difference between the carrying amount and adjusted for IFRS elements by applying a loss emergence the present value of estimated future cash flows. period (LEP) and a cycle adjustment factor (CAF), or is based on specific Point-in-Time models. The IBNI Estimating the timing and amount of future cash flow impairment loss is calculated for the entire nonrequires significant judgement. The impact of changes in Risk, funding & capital impaired portfolio. amounts and timing of expected recovery is recognised in impairment charges on loans and receivables in the Write-off income statement. When a loan is deemed no longer collectible, it is written off against the related loan loss allowance. Such loans Where possible, ABN AMRO seeks to restructure loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have rather than to take possession of collateral. This may involve been completed and the amount of the loss has been extending the payment arrangements and agreeing on determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously revised loan conditions. The loans continue to be subject written off are credited to the income statement line item to an individual or collective impairment assessment. Leadership impairment charges on loans and other receivables. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 109 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Market risk management Introduction Market risk management ABN AMRO is exposed to market risk in its banking book ÅÅ The maturity mismatch between assets and liabilities. Strategy and trading book. ABN AMRO provides mortgages and commercial loans with long-term fixed interest terms. This is funded by liabilities that have shorter average interest maturity Market risk in the banking book b compared to the assets; Business Market risk in the banking book is the risk that the market ÅÅ Actual client behaviour, which determines the maturity value or the earnings of the bank decline because of of some of our client products. We use models to unfavourable market movements. The market risk of the predict this behaviour. As such, we are exposed to banking book consists predominantly of interest rate risk. model risk: a potential loss the Bank may incur, as a consequence of decisions that could be principally Market risk is the risk of losses in market value or the based on the output of internal models, due to errors Risk, funding & capital Bank’s earnings. The following market risks are inherent in the development, implementation or use of such in the banking book: models. The most important behavioural models include: ÅÅ Interest rate risk: arises from unfavourable yield ÅÅ Client behaviour with respect to early redemption curve developments; of residential mortgages; ÅÅ Credit spread risk: arises from adverse movements in ÅÅ Client acceptance of offered volume and the the prices of bonds or credit derivatives. The principal deviation for a residential mortgage between the source is from bonds held for liquidity purposes; offer rate and the prevailing market mortgage rate ÅÅ Equity risk: arises from adverse movements in equity at the moment the loan is paid to the customer; prices, dividends and volatilities. Equity positions can ÅÅ Client behaviour with respect to non-maturing Leadership be taken in strategic partnerships and joint ventures, deposits which are callable on demand. positions in private equity and positions where debt held by the bank has been converted to equity as part Risk measurement for interest rate risk of a restructuring process; v28ufg ÅÅ Property risk: arises from adverse movements in The key metrics used are Net Interest Income (NII) at property prices; Risk, duration of equity, economic value of equity (EVE) Governance ÅÅ Foreign exchange risk: arises from adverse movements and economic capital. These are complemented with in FX spot and forward rates and/or FX volatility. It arises stress testing and scenario analysis. for operational reasons where it is inefficient to hedge exposures as they arise. The metrics used for managing banking book risks are dependent upon the design and assumptions used in Interest rate risk in the banking book v the financial models from which they are derived. Models Annual Financial Statements In order to model and measure interest rate risk, must therefore be validated by the independent Model assumptions are made about client behaviour, most Validation Department and approved by duly authorised importantly with respect to the maturity of savings and risk committees. Models are assessed as to whether they the prepayment of mortgages. The nature of these behave appropriately under the current market conditions assumptions can substantially alter the anticipated and, if required, they are adjusted. interest cash flow pattern. Interest rate risk is therefore continuously managed within the risk appetite as the NII­-at-­Risk is the difference in NII between a base scenario profile of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and an alternative scenario. NII-at-Risk is defined as the changes and as assumptions made about client behaviour worst outcome of two scenarios: a gradual increase in are updated. The main sources of interest rate risk are: interest rates and a gradual decline in interest rates by Other 200bps, both over a 1-year period. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 110 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Market risk management Introduction Duration measures value changes due to small parallel The bank applies limits to the above mentioned interest shifts of the yield curve. Computation of the duration rate risk measures in line with the approved risk appetite Strategy is based on deriving the change in economic value of requirement. The risk appetite is based on the maximum a portfolio due to an interest rate increase or decrease interest loss the bank is willing to accept, both in terms compared with a base scenario. of income for a 1-year period, and economic value. EVE-at-Risk is the loss in economic value of equity as a ABN AMRO uses a combination of portfolio (macro) hedges result of the worst outcome of various non-parallel yield and specific asset or liability (micro) hedges to swap fixed Business curve scenarios. interest rates to floating interest rate position. The resulting interest rate position, after application of interest rate Economic capital for market risk in the banking book is hedges, is in line with the bank’s strategy and risk appetite. calculated using a VaR model which determines the economic capital needed to absorb losses due to adverse Credit spread risk in the banking book interest rate movements. The model also accounts for the Credit spread risk for the liquidity portfolio is measured Risk, funding & capital potential impact of client behaviour, such as prepayment on and limited as the impact on economic value of a 1 basis mortgages and changes in deposits and savings balances. point change in spreads to a swap rate. This is done across the term structure of exposure as well as for a parallel ABN AMRO uses stress testing and scenario analysis to shift across the curve. ensure a comprehensive approach to risk management and to identify potential weakness. Market risk in the trading book Market risk management for the banking book As part of its business strategy, ABN AMRO facilitates The overall objective of interest rate risk management is client orders, acts as a market maker in key markets and Leadership to contribute to a stable long-term NII of the bank while provides liquidity to clients, including institutional investors protecting the EVE against adverse yield curve movements. and private clients. Market risk in the trading book is the risk of losses in market value due to adverse ABN AMRO has in place a detailed risk management market movements. framework to identify, measure and control market risk in the banking book. The framework provides assurance The following market risks are inherent in the trading book: Governance that the banking book activities remain consistent with ÅÅ Interest rate risk: arises from adverse changes in the bank’s moderate risk profile using different interest interest rate risk curves and/or interest rate volatilities; rate reference curves. ÅÅ Credit spread risk: arises from adverse changes in the term structure of credit spreads and/or from changing Interest rate risk is managed within the context of the credit quality of debt securities or CDS reference Risk Appetite Statements as approved by the Managing entities, which impact default probabilities; Annual Financial Statements Board. Funds Transfer Pricing shifts interest rate risk away ÅÅ Equity risk: arises from adverse changes in equity from commercial business lines, enabling central monitoring prices, dividends and volatilities; and management. The Asset & Liability Committee ÅÅ Commodity risk: arises from adverse changes in (ALCO) is mandated to manage and steer the market risk commodity prices; in the banking book. The day-to-day management of ÅÅ Foreign exchange risk: arises from adverse changes positions is delegated to ALM, while Treasury performs in FX spot and forward rates and/or FX volatility. the execution of interest rate risk steering. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 111 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Market risk management Introduction Market risk management for the trading book The VaR model measures a one-day 99% VaR using a bv historical simulation approach and 300 days of historical Strategy ABN AMRO has a detailed risk management framework data. The daily VaR is back-tested against the calculated in place to identify, measure and control market risk in actual mark-to-market changes for each subsequent the trading book. The framework provides assurance trading day and the number of outliers is used to assess that the bank’s trading activities are consistent with its the reliability of the VaR model. In 2016, the model’s client-focused business strategy and moderate risk profile. back-testing performance was satisfactory. In accordance with the strategy, the Trading Business Risk Business Committee annually approves trading mandates, which In addition to daily VaR, ABN AMRO also uses stressed define the nature and amount of the permitted transactions VaR and incremental risk charge (IRC) metrics. Regulatory and risks and the associated constraints. The Trading guidelines require the bank to calculate a stressed VaR Business Risk Committee is a subsidiary committee measure calibrated to a continuous 12-month period of the Group Risk Committee. of financial stress relevant to our trading portfolio. Risk, funding & capital Market risk measurement for the trading book Stress and scenario testing is designed to focus specifically bv2ufg on the impact of tail events which are outside the VaR ABN AMRO measures and manages market risk in the confidence interval. We run daily stress tests for large trading book on a daily basis. The key metrics used are moves in risk factors. Scenario tests are also conducted economic capital, regulatory capital, Value-at-risk (VaR), frequently to evaluate the impacts of extreme market stressed VaR (SVaR) and incremental risk charge (IRC) events that cover multiple risk factors, and the results of together with a wide array of stress and scenario tests, these tests are monitored. These scenarios can either be sensitivity measures, concentration limits and notional based on historical or hypothetical events or a combination limits. These metrics are measured and monitored with of both. Leadership appropriate limits set at global and business levels. For the trading book, we take into account adjustments The metrics used to manage the trading book risks are for counterparty risk on our clients (Credit Valuation dependent upon the design and assumptions used in the Adjustment), ABN AMRO funding costs (Funding Valuation financial models from which they are derived. New models Adjustment) and ABN AMRO credit risk (Debt Valuation are therefore validated by the independent Model Validation Adjustment). Governance Department and approved by duly authorised risk committees. Furthermore, existing risk models are Capital for market risk in the trading book reviewed and approved annually. As part of the review, Regulatory capital models are assessed as to whether they behave To calculate market risk capital for the trading book the appropriately under current market conditions. If and bank has implemented the Internal Models Approach when required, models are adjusted. Besides the formal (IMA). We obtained formal approval from the regulator Annual Financial Statements validation and review of models, the daily explanation for the use of the IMA approach for calculating regulatory of risk reporting figures, periodic portfolio reviews and capital in February 2016. regular back testing are important tools to assure the adequacy of the models. Economic capital Calculation of economic capital for market risk in the trading book is based on a daily Value-at-Risk (VaR) market risk measure and historical scenarios simulating stress events such as Black Monday and the financial markets crisis. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 112 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Operational risk management Introduction Operational risk management ABN AMRO has a framework in place to consistently Operational risk is incorporated into risk reports at various Strategy manage and prevent operational risks that result from levels within the bank, up to the Managing and inadequate or failed systems or internal processes, failure Supervisory Board. of people, or external events. The framework is aimed at keeping operational risks within the moderate risk profile Framework for operational risk management Business and is in line with requirements for the Advanced v2 Measurement Approach (AMA). It evolves and is kept At the heart of the operational risk management framework up to date as experience gained is incorporated. are assessments and risk monitoring activities. Business managers use assessments to identify and assess risks, Framework for operational risk management v including scenarios for rare events. Assessments are executed for business-as-usual activities and for new Risk, funding & capital Management Control Statement initiatives. If a risk exceeds the risk appetite, the business manager takes appropriate action. At least once a year, Strategic risk assessment business managers monitor the effectiveness of the Operational risk management overview controls in their area of responsibility. Controls are strengthened as necessary. Key Risk Indicators are Operational risk appetite Reporting monitored to signal adverse risk developments. Despite Operational risk capital all preventive measures, incidents and operational losses Operational risk assessments Monitoring cannot always be avoided. The bank systematically collects information and analyses such events in order to take Leadership Business-as-usual Operational risk events (including scenarios) Effectiveness of controls appropriate action. Changes Key Risk Indicators Operational risk responses Once a year, senior management reviews the strategy and Mitigation business objectives from a risk perspective. Based on the Avoidance strategic risk assessments, senior management signs a Transfer Management Control Statement at the end of each year, Governance Risk acceptance which is included at the end of this section. Operational risk responses v Operational risk management approach v The bank identifies four categories of risk response: Employees are expected and encouraged to be alert to and ÅÅ Risk mitigation: by strengthening controls; aware of operational risks in their daily work. Operational ÅÅ Risk avoidance: by closing down operations or not Annual Financial Statements risk management is strongly embedded in daily business starting operations; processes. First line managers are responsible for managing ÅÅ Risk transfer: by transferring risks to insurance operational risks and are supported by a professional companies, among other things. The Group Risk operational risk management organisation. Operational Committee reviews the global insurance risk management works in close cooperation with other programmes annually; second line parties, such as Compliance & Conduct, Legal, ÅÅ Risk acceptance: in situations where management Security & Intelligence Management, Information Security decides to consciously accept a risk. and Business Continuity Management, which also use the operational risk framework. This reflects the bank’s view that operational risk requires a concerted effort on the part Other of these departments. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 113 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Operational risk management Introduction Specific operational risk areas v More information on our approach to the stability and The bank has a dedicated organisation in place for availability of our digital services is provided under in Strategy operational risk areas that require specific knowledge, the Group performance section of the Business section. such as information security and business continuity Information on recovery and resolution planning is management. provided in the Capital management section of Risk, funding & capital management. Information security Information is one of the bank’s most valuable assets. Operational risk measurement v2 Business ABN AMRO’s clients are dependent on the proper functioning of the bank’s information systems. These In line with the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA), systems run in complex information infrastructures, the bank has a model in place for operational risk capital. connecting the bank’s networks with public networks. The model predicts potential operational risk losses As a result, banking processes and their supporting (annually aggregated) by combining a forward-looking and information systems are inherently vulnerable, threatening a backward-looking view of operational risks. Risk control Risk, funding & capital the security of client data and services. Examples of such self-assessments and scenario analyses provide a threats are computer-assisted fraud, unauthorised forward-looking view. Historical operational loss data disclosure of confidential information, virus infection, of ABN AMRO and industry operational loss data provide computer hacking and denial of service. a backward-looking view. In recognition of the importance of protecting the bank’s Capital for operational risk information and its associated assets, such as systems Regulatory capital and infrastructure, at all times, ABN AMRO has established ABN AMRO applied The Standardised Approach (TSA) to a structured information security approach to ensure the calculate regulatory capital for operational risk at year-end Leadership confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. 2016. At the end of 2016, ABN AMRO received permission This approach defines the organisational framework, from the ECB to apply the Advanced Measurement management and staff responsibilities and information Approach (AMA). As of Q1 2017, ABN AMRO will use its security directives that apply to ABN AMRO, its vendors internal AMA model for calculating regulatory capital. and third parties with whom the bank exchanges The permission to apply the most advanced calculation information. method confirms ECB’s satisfaction with the way Governance ABN AMRO manages operational risks. Business continuity management Business continuity management ensures organisational Economic capital resilience at all levels of the ABN AMRO organisation The AMA model is already being used to calculate and the ability to respond effectively to threats, thus economic capital for operational risks. The bank applies a safeguarding stakeholders’ interests and the organisation’s 99.95% confidence level to calculate the operational risk Annual Financial Statements reputation, brand and value-creating activities. Business economic capital, whereas a 99.9% confidence level will continuity focuses on: be applied to calculate regulatory operational risk capital. ÅÅ Analysis of threats and business impact of calamities The bank is not using insurances or other risk transfer and crises; mechanisms for calculation of operational risk ÅÅ Determining strategies and solutions to be taken in economic capital. the event of a crisis to enable continuity of business operations, such as business recovery, crisis management, IT disaster recovery planning; ÅÅ Documentation, periodic assessment, and testing of these strategies and solutions. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 114 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Funding & liquidity risk management Introduction Funding & liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that actual and potential payments ABN AMRO’s strategy for wholesale funding is derived Strategy or collateral posting obligations cannot be met on a timely from the bank’s moderate risk profile. This strategy aims basis, or only at excessive costs. There are two types to optimise and diversify the bank’s funding sources in of risk: order to maintain market access and the targeted funding ÅÅ Funding liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to position. We aim to have a balance sheet with a diverse, Business accommodate both expected and unexpected current stable and cost-efficient funding base. and future cash outflows and collateral needs because insufficient cash is available. Eventually, this will affect The funding strategy is executed taking into account the bank’s daily operations or its financial condition; the following guidelines: ÅÅ Market liquidity risk is the risk that the bank cannot ÅÅ Maintain market access by diversifying funding sources sell an asset in a timely manner at a reasonable market in different funding markets (Europe, the US and Risk, funding & capital price due to insufficient market depth (insufficient the Asia Pacific region); supply and demand) or market disruption. Market ÅÅ Optimise funding costs within the targets set for liquidity risk includes the sensitivity in liquidity value of volumes and maturities; a portfolio due to changes in the applicable haircuts and ÅÅ Maintain strong relationships with the investor market value. It also concerns uncertainty about the base through active marketing; time required to realise the liquidity value of the assets. ÅÅ Optimise balance between private placements and public benchmark deals; ÅÅ Build, maintain and manage credit curves in different Strategy 4ia funding programmes and currencies; Leadership ÅÅ Continuously monitor attractive funding opportunities Liquidity for ABN AMRO and investment opportunities We have a liquidity risk management framework in for investors; place that helps us maintain a moderate risk profile and ÅÅ Optimise planning and execution of funding in different safeguards ABN AMRO’s reputation from a liquidity market windows. perspective. This framework allows the bank to meet Governance its payment obligations at a reasonable cost, even under severely adverse conditions. We have formulated a set Risk management approach of liquidity risk metrics and limits to manage the bank’s bv2i liquidity position within the requirements set by the The natural maturity mismatch between loans and funding regulator. By maintaining a smooth long-term maturity requires liquidity risk management. We consider maturity profile, limiting dependence on wholesale funding and transformation an integral part of our business model, Annual Financial Statements holding a solid liquidity buffer, we maintain a prudent which is why we closely monitor our liquidity position liquidity profile. and the resulting risks. We diversify our funding sources to maintain market access, and we diversify funding Funding tenors to avoid concentration of outflows. We also hold ABN AMRO’s main source of funding consists of a portfolio of highly liquid assets that can be converted deposits from Retail Banking, Private Banking and into cash in the event of unforeseen market disruptions, Corporate Banking clients. The remainder of our funding allowing us to meet payment and collateral obligations is raised largely through various long-term wholesale at all times. funding instruments. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 115 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Funding & liquidity risk management Introduction Funding and liquidity risk is managed centrally. We ÅÅ Loan-to-Deposit ratio (LtD): The LtD ratio measures the incorporate liquidity costs into the pricing of our day-to-day relationship between the loan book (Loans and Strategy business activities. receivables customers) and deposits from clients (Due to customers). The ratio includes all client-driven loans In managing the risks, a clear distinction is made between and deposits, but excludes loans to and deposits from going-concern and contingency risk management. governments. The LtD ratio gives an indication of our dependence on wholesale funding for financing client loans. Due to the Dutch mandatory and collective Going-concern management Business pension savings scheme, mortgage loans outweigh Going-concern management entails management of the client savings balances in the Netherlands, driving the day-to-day liquidity position within specified limits. This LtD ratio up above 100%. allows us to meet payment obligations on a timely basis. The most important metrics we use are: ÅÅ Stress testing: We conduct monthly and ad-hoc stress Contingency risk management v Risk, funding & capital tests in which we evaluate the impact of cash inand Contingency risk management aims to ensure that in the outflows under plausible stress scenarios. Both event of either a bank-specific or general market stress market-wide and bank-specific stress scenarios are event, the bank is able to generate sufficient liquidity to defined and analysed. The goal of stress testing is withstand a shortor long-term liquidity crisis. twofold. First, it helps us to review our risk framework, ÅÅ Contingency Funding Plan: The Contingency Funding Plan i.e. the liquidity buffer size, risk appetite and limits. (CFP) sets out the guidelines and responsibilities for Second, it allows us to identify ways to reduce addressing possible liquidity shortfalls in emergency outflows in times of crisis; situations. This only comes into effect in the event the ÅÅ Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR): The objective of the LCR liquidity position is threatened. The CFP is aligned to Leadership is to promote the short-term resilience of banks by the Recovery Plan, as required by the regulators. It ensuring sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a enables us to manage our liquidity without significant stress scenario lasting 30 calendar days; unnecessarily jeopardising business lines, while limiting ÅÅ Regulatory liquidity: The regulatory liquidity requirement excessive funding costs in severe market measures the liquidity position in a one-month scenario circumstances; of severe stress, as defined by the Dutch central bank. ÅÅ Collateral posting in the event of a rating downgrade: In the Governance The central bank requires the one-month liquidity event that ABN AMRO’s credit rating is downgraded, position to be in excess of the minimum required collateral requirements may increase. ABN AMRO regulatory level at all times. As of 2017, this regulatory monitors these potential additional collateral postings liquidity requirement is no longer mandatory; in its liquidity management framework; ÅÅ Survival period: The survival period reflects the period ÅÅ Liquidity buffer: ABN AMRO holds a liquidity buffer that the bank’s liquidity position is expected to remain which accommodates cash outflows during stress. Annual Financial Statements positive in an internal stress scenario in which This buffer consists of unencumbered high-quality wholesale funding markets deteriorate and retail and liquid assets, including government bonds, retained commercial clients withdraw a proportion of their RMBS and cash. deposits; ÅÅ Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR): The objective of the NSFR is to promote resilience over a longer time horizon by creating additional incentives for banks to fund their activities with stable sources of funding on an ongoing basis; Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 116 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Capital management Introduction Capital management Capital management strategy v4w Capital measurement and allocation Strategy The primary objective of the capital management strategy Capital adequacy is measured and monitored on an is to ensure that capital adequacy requirements are met at ongoing basis against target capital ratios, which are all times and sufficient capital is available to support the derived from the bank’s overall risk appetite and strategy. bank’s strategy. Capital is a necessary resource for doing Capital projections and stress test scenarios, both Business business and defines the bank’s commercial possibilities. market-wide and bank-specific, are used to ensure that The balance between available and required capital is actual and future capital levels remain above the targets. managed centrally, optimising the use of available capital. Capital is allocated to businesses in a way that optimises The basis of the capital management strategy is the bank’s the long-term value of the bank while serving the bank’s risk appetite and its business plans. Other important strategic objectives. In the capital allocation process both Risk, funding & capital factors taken into account while managing the capital risk-based and non-risk-based return parameters are position are expectations and requirements of external considered, taking into account economic and regulatory stakeholders (such as regulators, investors, shareholders, capital requirements. This process ensures that the equity analysts, rating agencies and clients), the bank’s bank meets its return targets while maintaining a position in the market, market developments, contingent moderate risk profile, in line with the bank’s risk appetite. capital needs and the feasibility of capital management actions. Contingency capital management Although ABN AMRO manages its capital centrally, the Contingency plans are in place to address capital issues, Leadership group companies are sufficiently capitalised to comply if any. The Contingency Capital Plan provides a framework with all local regulatory solvency requirements and to to detect capital adequacy stress by setting out various meet any local business needs. early warning indicators. The Contingency Capital Plan also sets out a range of actions that could be undertaken ABN AMRO’s banking activities are carried out by legal based on the level of severity and urgency of the issues. entities that are part of the Group’s tax unit for corporate Governance tax. Apart from prevailing legal and regulatory legislation, there are no specific material impediments to the prompt Recovery and resolution planning transfer of the bank’s regulatory capital. The Bank Recovery & Resolution Directive requires a recovery plan and a resolution plan to be in place for ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO has submitted a reviewed Dividend and updated version of its group recovery plan to the ECB Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO’s dividend policy takes into account matters in December 2016. The Single Resolution Board (SRB) including current and pending regulatory capital has prepared a resolution plan for ABN AMRO. The SRB requirements, our risk profile, growth in commercial has concluded that the preferred resolution strategy activities and market factors. The dividend payout is set for ABN AMRO is a Single-Point-of-Entry (SPE) strategy in light of the bank’s moderate risk profile and regulatory with ABN AMRO Bank N.V. as the resolution entity. changes, in order to ensure that dividend payments can ABN AMRO will therefore continue to issue external be maintained in the future. MREL eligible instruments through ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 117 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Business risk management Introduction Business risk management ABN AMRO manages business risk in order to preserve its Business risk measurement Strategy business earnings, independent of (external) developments. To determine business risk, we collect a combination of Business risk management limits actual and forecasted historical and forward-looking scenarios from experts in volatility of business earnings. Earnings are affected by each business line. These scenarios vary from annual various internal and external factors, such as changes in revenue growth to revenue drivers, such as macroeconomic Business client preferences, competition, economic and geopolitical variables or industry performance indicators. The scenarios developments and regulations. We continuously monitor determine the volatility of revenue growth for each business and respond to these factors. line, and any correlation between them. Based on the individual volatilities, we calculate bank-wide volatility The key criteria for classifying a risk as a business risk are: using a variance/covariance methodology. ÅÅ An event that leads to uncertainty in present or future Risk, funding & capital business earnings and/or franchise value; Economic capital for business risk ÅÅ Changes of drivers of future business earnings such as Economic capital for business risk reflects the maximum uncertainty in volumes, margins, fee and commission downward deviation of actual versus expected net rates and/or business expenses. operating profit and franchise value. Based on the PPNR (Pre Provision Net Revenue) methodology, the determined The bank mitigates sensitivity to business risk drivers volatility per business line is used to calculate the by performing management practices that address economic capital. developments in these drivers in an effective and timely manner. In addition, business risk is mitigated Leadership by a capital buffer. The bank’s strategy and business risk are correlated. The strategy incorporates mitigation of uncertain events and business risk drivers. Annual review of the strategy ensures alignment with business risk developments. Governance To ensure that the bank’s strategy is pursued and the strategic goals are met in the long term, our business plans and budgets take into account these strategic goals. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 118 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Sustainability risk management Introduction Sustainability risk management A ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog! Connectivity of material topic 16 responsible business conduct regarding human Strategy Link to Important to these See material topics rights, which includes commitments to further improving strategy stakeholders and connectivity on our human rights due diligence in international finance page 19 transactions. We also published our first Human Rights Report, based on the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Business Framework, being the first bank to do so. Sustainability is a key objective in our strategy. We aim to make a positive contribution to safeguarding human rights, Client and investment management health and safety, and the environment, mainly through Client acceptance is crucial to our approach to managing our financing and investment services. We recognise that sustainability risks. We have in place instruments to in its roles as lender and investor, the bank may be exposed identify potential breaches of our sustainability policies Risk, funding & capital to environmental, social and ethical (ESE) risks, through and we do not do business with companies that are not the direct activities of our clients and the companies in willing or able to run their business responsibly. Similar which we invest on behalf of our clients and through the checks on exclusions and controversies apply to the activities performed in the value chains of these companies. investment universe which is provided to our clients via To manage these sustainability risks, we have defined our investment services. a specific risk appetite in line with the bank’s moderate risk profile. In corporate lending, the bank performs a sustainability assessment for transactions with an increased Sustainability risk policy framework sustainability risk level. This assessment is based on the Leadership ABN AMRO uses a sustainability risk policy framework ESE standards in our sustainability risk policy framework which is governed in line with the bank’s ‘three lines of and focuses on the compliance, commitment, capacity defence’ model. The policy framework covers our and track record of our client in managing its sustainability activities, ranging from corporate lending and investment risk. This means that we may decide to accept transactions services to procurement and product development. with a high sustainability risk profile, as long as our client is capable of managing these risks and operates within Governance Our sustainability risk policy framework is constantly the limits of our sustainability sector policies and evolving: we develop new policies or adjust existing ones procedures. In 2016 we continued to integrate this based on, feedback and input from stakeholders if any assessment into our credit application systems by further gaps become evident or if new developments take place. implementing our Global Sustainability Risk Indictor (GSRI). Among other things, we updated our bank-wide Exclusion Our ambition is to further develop the GSRI tool and use List in 2016, which lists activities and practices the bank of the results in our monitoring and reporting of our Annual Financial Statements does not want to engage in. In addition, we updated our clients’ sustainability performance. Other examples of our sector policy for the financing of companies in the sustainability efforts are provided in the Business section. agricultural commodities industry and formulated a statement on animal welfare. ​If the sustainability assessment indicates that a client does not meet the bank’s sustainability standards, we A focus area in our sustainability risk policy framework​is explore possibilities for improvement. We do this by management of human rights risks in line with the UN conducting an open dialogue with our clients, by addressing Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. In line and discussing these matters and, where necessary, with these principles, we have integrated human rights promoting and negotiating for improvement. In general, assessment criteria into our lending, investment and we do not provide lending unless our conditions for Other corporate procurement activities. In 2016, we signed the improvement have been accepted by the client. Dutch Banking Sector Agreement on international ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 119 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Management Control Statement Introduction Management Control Statement Under best practice provisions II.1.4 and II.1.5 of the ÅÅ There are no indications to suggest that ABN AMRO’s Strategy Dutch Corporate Governance Code, ABN AMRO’s internal controls will not continue to function properly Managing Board is requested: in 2017. ÅÅ ​​​​​​​To describe the main risks related to the strategy of ABN AMRO; The internal risk management and control systems provide Business ÅÅ To describe internal risk management and control reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial systems for the main risks during the year; reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of ÅÅ To describe any major shortcomings (if any); ABN AMRO’s published financial statements. ÅÅ To substantiate the operation of internal risk management and control (related to financial reporting ABN AMRO has implemented an Operational Risk risks) during the year under review, and; Management Framework (ORMF) for sound operational risk Risk, funding & capital ÅÅ To state its adequacy and effectiveness.​​​​​​​ management, worldwide, in line with the requirements for Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) compliance. ABN AMRO’s internal risk management and control is a As from January 2017 the ECB gave ABN AMRO process, effectuated by the Managing Board, management, permission to use the Advanced Measurement Approach and other personnel. It is designed to provide reasonable (AMA), subject to certain conditions. The ORMF combines assurance regarding the achievement of objectives in the the various non-financial risk disciplines into a single following categories: converged approach and provides the businesses with ÅÅ ​​​Effectiveness and efficiency of operations; a clear and fair view on their operational risks and the ÅÅ Reliability of financial and non-financial information; way these are managed. These insights allow senior Leadership ÅÅ Compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies management to form an opinion on the adequacy of with respect to the conduct of business; internal and management controls regarding the risks ÅÅ Safeguarding of assets, identification and management they face while pursuing the bank’s business objectives. of liabilities, and; ÅÅ Strategic goals of ABN AMRO. Based on risk assessments and monitoring and control activities, the Managing Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Governance Different parts of the Risk, funding & capital section makes the following statement with regard to risks that elaborate on ABN AMRO’s identified risks, such as may jeopardise ABN AMRO’s business objectives (as a credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk translation of ABN AMRO’s profile and strategy) for the and business risk. short term: ÅÅ ABN AMRO has internal risk management and control Based on the process regarding internal risk management systems in place to provide reasonable assurance Annual Financial Statements and control over financial reporting, the Managing Board that ABN AMRO will not be hindered in achieving its of ABN AMRO Group N.V. makes the following statement business objectives or in the orderly and legitimate regarding the Group’s financial reporting risks: conduct of its business by circumstances which may ÅÅ ABN AMRO’s internal risk management and control reasonably be foreseen; systems provide reasonable assurance that ABN AMRO’s ÅÅ Based on internal risk management and control consolidated financial statements do not contain any systems in place and barring unforeseen adverse material inaccuracies; external conditions, the Managing Board is of the ÅÅ ABN AMRO’s internal risk management and control opinion that there are no material elements within systems functioned properly in 2016; ABN AMRO that could significantly endanger the realisation of its business objectives;​​​​​​​ Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 120 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Management Control Statement Introduction ÅÅ Regarding internal risk management and control systems, identifying and mitigating the risks of each change the Managing Board has identified dependencies: initiative as well as across initiatives. The objective is ÅÅ ​​​​​​​The following external factors could have an impact Strategy to optimise the bank’s ability to mitigate these risks on the current ABN AMRO business model: effectively and achieve its overall strategic objectives.​​​​​​​ ÅÅ ​​​​​Limitations in the execution of the planned ÅÅ Data quality issues remain an attention point, although sustainable growth strategies due to adverse data quality improvements have been realised. monetary conditions (i.e. low/negative interest In order to further improve the accessibility, rates) and potential geopolitical developments consistency, granularity and quality of risk & finance Business (impacting global trade, or increasing the risk to data, change initiatives such as PERDARR are in business already conducted), leading to reduced progress to mitigate this risk. shareholder value. ÅÅ Non-compliance with (new or new views on) laws ÅÅ Several (pending) laws and regulations and and regulations may lead to reputational damage, change of interpretation of existing European and fines or warnings. Ensuring compliance with local laws and regulations may significantly regulatory requirements may take up a substantial Risk, funding & capital impact liquidity and capital adequacy and its part of our resources. capital raising capabilities. Specifically, Basel IV This risk is mitigated by raising staff awareness of requirements could significantly affect regulatory programmes by means of ongoing ABN AMRO’s business model and may impact training and presentations. Furthermore, a high the level playing field in specific segments in number of employees and a large budget have which ABN AMRO is active. Basel IV will also been made available for regulatory change initiatives impact the ability of ABN AMRO to free up (such as MiFID II and Basel IV).​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ resources to compete with new entrants and ÅÅ ​​​​​​​Important steps have been taken to improve the new intermediaries. bank’s ability in the future to respond to disruptive Leadership ÅÅ ​​​​​​​Regulatory pressure in the context of complexity, innovations and ensure we identify and respond multiple interpretations, and volume of new laws/ swiftly and effectively to new developments regulations will impact ABN AMRO’s strategy. (e.g. blockchain) which may threaten our business As regulatory bank-wide programmes such as model. Due to the high number of change initiatives MiFID II require significant attention and effort and the limited availability of staff and specific from commercial and other staff, this will impact resources, the bank runs the risk of not responding Governance the capacity for other essential strategic quickly enough. change initiatives. ABN AMRO’s current strategy is to focus on innovation and growth and, in particular, on ÅÅ ​​​​​​​The following areas of improvement have been digitalisation and fast delivery. To this end, our identified and agreed upon and are actively managed employees’ expertise must be strengthened by senior management: and broadened.​​​​​​​ Annual Financial Statements ÅÅ The high level of change in combination with the ÅÅ Due to the continued increase and professionalisation challenges regarding our agile and cultural of external cyber threats, there is a risk that the transformation could potentially endanger the organisation will not be able to keep pace with business objectives of the Group as a whole. These new security threats. This could result in a major change initiatives are considered necessary in order security incident with a large financial and/or to keep the bank competitive. However, they involve reputational impact. a heavy workload for the entire organisation. Full situational awareness is being promoted and Change risk is managed at the highest level within investments in information security (such as DDOS the bank (Managing Board). Operational Risk shield and cloud brokerage) are being made to manage Management and senior management of the this high risk. Other businesses and functions are jointly working on ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 121 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital management / Management Control Statement Introduction ÅÅ The bank’s reputation is influenced by society’s The evaluation of the adequacy of internal risk management perception of banking in general and of ABN AMRO and control systems was regularly discussed with the Strategy in particular. This, combined with constant Audit Committee and the Risk & Capital Committee in reorganisations in the financial industry, makes 2016 and was subsequently submitted to the Supervisory it more difficult to attract employees in areas that Board. Due to their inherent limitations, ABN AMRO’s are critical to the bank.​​​​​​​ internal risk management and control systems do not ABN AMRO’s current strategy and its focus on an provide complete assurance on the realisation of business agile way of working, with passion and expertise, objectives, and cannot at all times prevent inaccuracies, Business should help us to sustain and improve our fraud and non-compliance with rules and regulations. attractiveness as an employer. Culture programmes on our new principles are being carried out to support staff in acting in accordance with our new approach. And Human Resources will focus more on attracting scarce and highly specialised talented Risk, funding & capital employees and less on attracting staff that are easier to attract or replace.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 122 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Management Control Statement Introduction Risk, funding & capital review The following section provides a comprehensive overview of the different risks Strategy across business segments and portfolios. Information on capital developments is also provided. More information on the Group’s risk management strategy, framework, governance and policies is provided in the Risk, funding & capital management section. Additional mandatory disclosures are provided in the Additional risk, funding & capital information section. Business Overview Risk, funding & capital 2016 was a fairly calm year for the global economy. As a result, the market risk RWA (REA) was reported The Dutch economy grew by around 2%﻿‍, matching the in 2016 on the basis of internal models instead of the growth recorded in 2015. Both years saw growth in all standardised calculation. In addition, our VaR methodology areas of spending. Although global trade did not grow was enhanced to cope better with low and negative spectacularly Dutch exports did well. Household consumption interest rates and is pending approval from the regulator rose by around 1.5%﻿‍, which is not surprising considering to be used for our VaR calculation. the significant improvement in purchasing power in 2016. The increase in the number of employed people also At the end of 2016, we received permission from the stimulated consumption. The housing market continued ECB to apply the Basel II Advanced Measurement Leadership its powerful upward spiral. Approach. As of Q1 2017, we will use our internal AMA model for calculating regulatory capital for The improvement of the economy and Dutch housing operational risk. Permission to apply the most advanced market is reflected in a decrease in loan impairments and calculation method confirms the ECB’s satisfaction with an overall improvement of the credit quality indicators how we manage operational risks. of our loan portfolio. Governance We participated in the 2016 EU-wide stress test conducted We received approval from the regulator to use the by the European Banking Authority (EBA). The stress test Internal Model Approach (IMA) for the calculation of confirmed that ABN AMRO has a significant capital and regulatory capital for market risk as of January 2016. liquidity buffer. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 123 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Key developments Key figures Strategy (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Total loans and receivables customers, gross excluding Fair value adjustments1, 2 266,551 275,881 of which Residential mortgages1 149,255 148,465 of which Consumer loans 12,539 15,147 Business of which Corporate loans 2 90,920 100,387 of which Other loans and receivables customers 13,838 11,881 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk1, 2 383,122 400,578 Total Exposure at Default 383,118 369,169 Total risk weighted assets (REA)/total Exposure at Default 27.2% 29.3% RWA (REA) Risk, funding & capital Total RWA (REA) 104,215 108,001 of which Credit risk3 83,140 86,063 of which Operational risk 17,003 16,227 of which Market risk 4,072 5,710 Fully-loaded CET1 ratio 17.0% 15.5% Fully-loaded leverage ratio 3.9% 3.8% Credit quality indicators4 Forbearance ratio2 3.3% 3.8% Past due ratio 2, 5 1.4% 1.5% Leadership Impaired ratio2, 5 3.3% 3.3% Coverage ratio2, 5 38.4% 43.1% Cost of risk (in bps) underlying2, 6 4 17 Liquidity and funding indicators Loan-to-Deposit ratio 112.7% 108.6% LCR >100% >100% Governance NSFR >100% >100% 1 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 RWA (REA) for credit value adjustment (CVA) and default fund contribution (DFC) are included in credit risk. In 2016 CVA amounted to EUR 0.8 billion (2015: EUR 1.1 billion) and DFC amounted to EUR 0.6 billion (2015: EUR 0.3 billion). 4 Ratios calculated on Loans and receivables customers only. 5 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments Annual Financial Statements within residential mortgages. For more information on the reclassification in allowances refer to the residential mortgages section. 6 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. Change in definition of default and impaired The alignment led to an increase of the total impaired In order to simplify our reporting and improve exposure of EUR 1.8 billion at 31 December 2015. As a comparability with our peers, ABN AMRO aligned the result, the impaired and coverage ratio also changed. definition of default and impaired in the third quarter of Furthermore, the past due but not impaired exposure 2016. As a result, defaulted clients without an impairment declined. Total impairment allowances remained unchanged. allowance are now also considered to be impaired. As the definition of default has not changed, there is Other no impact on the figures relating to regulatory capital. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 124 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction The comparative figures for impaired and past due reclassified to additions for residential mortgages. exposure have been adjusted accordingly. Due to This reclassification was not restated for the Strategy alignment of the definition, an IBNI charge has been comparative figures. Reconciliation table amended offsetting policy and aligned definition Default and Impaired 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 (in millions) after adjustment before adjustment Total loans and receivables customers Business Total loans and receivables customers, gross excluding Fair value adjustments 275,881 258,824 Total carrying amount Loans and receivables customers 276,375 259,319 Forborne Loans and receivables customers 10,504 9,065 Past due (but not impaired) Loans and receivables customers 4,203 4,858 Risk, funding & capital Impaired Loans and receivables customers 9,037 6,973 Credit quality indicators Forbearance ratio 3.8% 3.5% Past due ratio 1.5% 1.9% Impaired ratio 3.3% 2.7% Coverage ratio 43.1% 55.8% Underlying cost of risk (year to date, in bps) 17 19 Corporate loans Corporate loans, gross excluding Fair value adjustments 100,387 84,864 Leadership Carrying amount Corporate loans 97,007 81,484 Forborne Corporate loans 7,715 6,276 Past due (but not impaired) Corporate loans 879 1,076 Impaired Corporate loans 6,179 4,872 Credit quality indicators Corporate loans Forbearance ratio 7.7% 7.4% Governance Past due ratio 0.9% 1.3% Impaired ratio 6.2% 5.7% Coverage ratio 50.1% 63.6% Underlying cost of risk (year to date in bps) 38 48 Annual Financial Statements Portfolio review to the new offsetting policy on notional cash pooling The residential mortgages portfolio grew to EUR 149.3 billion implemented in Q2 2016. This amendment led to an at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 148.5 billion) increase in corporate loans and inflated the balance sheet. due to a rise in new mortgage production, partly offset by Following the adjustment to the policy, mitigating actions redemptions. Consumer loans declined to EUR 12.5 billion were taken to reduce the impact. As a result, the carrying at year-end 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 15.1 billion) amount has been reduced significantly (impact of as a result of a lower volume of client lending and EUR 1.7 billion at 31 December 2016 compared with reclassification of the private banking activities in Asia and EUR 15.5 billion at 31 December 2015). In addition, the Middle East from consumer loans to assets held for corporate loans decreased due to reclassification of the sale. Corporate loans decreased to EUR 90.9 billion at private banking activities in Asia and the Middle East, Other year-end 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 100.4 billion). partly offset by increases due to ECT Clients. This decline was primarily due to the amendment made ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 125 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review Introduction Regulatory capital rate options were overly conservative. Improved valuation EAD increased to EUR 383.1 billion at year-end 2016 models have been developed and implemented, which Strategy (31 December 2015: EUR 369.2 billion) driven by higher will significantly lower the RWA figures for market risk. business volume within Corporate Banking, mainly related to Large Corporates and ECT Clients within International Credit quality indicators Clients. Total RWA (REA) decreased to EUR 104.2 billion at Overall, the credit quality indicators improved as a result 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 108.0 billion), of improved economic conditions. mainly driven by credit risk and, to a lesser extent, market Business risk. The decrease was partly offset by operational risk. Cost of risk Total on-balance impairment charges decreased sharply Credit risk RWA (REA) declined on the back of Retail to EUR 115 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 502 million). Banking, due mainly to higher collateral values and, to a This decline was mainly the result of significantly lower lesser extent, improved credit quality, partly offset by an additions and higher releases within Commercial Clients increase due to model changes. Private Banking decreased owing to the improvement of the Dutch economy, partly Risk, funding & capital as a result of lower business volume. The decrease in offset by additions within International Clients related to credit risk RWA (REA) was partly offset by an increase in ECT Clients. As a result, the cost of risk was historically Corporate Banking resulting from higher business volume low at 4bps for full-year 2016 (2015: 17bps). mainly related to ECT Clients within International Clients. Liquidity and funding The decrease in RWA (REA) for market risk was mainly The LtD ratio increased to 113% at 31 December 2016 the result of the use of the Internal Model Approach (IMA) (31 December 2015: 109%). Main drivers are the as from 1 January 2016. The decrease was partly offset reclassification of the bank’s Private Banking operations by the effect of negative interest rates on our regulatory in Asia and the Middle East to assets held for sale and Leadership capital models, reflecting the fact that the models for interest loan growth within Corporate Banking. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 126 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Key figures per business segment 7e 31 December 2016 Strategy Private Corporate Group (in millions) Retail Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Total assets 158,580 24,618 119,880 91,403 394,482 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk 157,614 17,731 117,880 89,897 383,122 Total Exposure at Default1 175,879 22,752 115,167 69,320 383,118 RWA (REA) Business Credit risk1 25,563 6,280 47,289 4,007 83,140 Operational risk 6,249 1,446 3,552 5,756 17,003 Market risk 4,072 4,072 Total RWA (REA) 31,813 7,726 54,913 9,763 104,215 Total RWA (REA)/Total Exposure at Default 18.1% 34.0% 47.7% 14.1% 27.2% Risk, funding & capital 2016 Average RWA (REA) 33,861 8,096 54,536 10,197 106,691 Cost of risk (in bps) underlying2 5 13 3 4 1 RWA (REA) for credit value adjustment (CVA) and default fund contribution (DFC) are included in credit risk. In 2016 CVA amounted to EUR 0.8 billion and DFC amounted to EUR 0.6 billion. 2 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 31 December 2015 Private Corporate Group (in millions) Retail Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Total assets 1, 2 157,330 24,171 132,878 92,994 407,373 Leadership On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk1, 2 156,815 20,834 131,326 91,603 400,578 Total Exposure at Default 174,229 22,105 103,443 69,392 369,169 RWA (REA) Credit risk3 28,896 6,852 45,867 4,447 86,063 Operational risk 5,875 1,373 3,537 5,441 16,227 Market risk 5,710 5,710 Governance Total RWA (REA) 34,771 8,226 55,115 9,888 108,001 Total RWA (REA)/Total Exposure at Default 20.0% 37.2% 53.3% 14.3% 29.3% 2015 Average Risk exposure amount 36,109 8,500 57,191 10,851 112,651 Cost of risk (in bps) underlying4 6 -2 46 19 Annual Financial Statements 1 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 RWA (REA) for credit value adjustment (CVA) and default fund contribution (DFC) are included in credit risk. In 2015 CVA amounted to EUR 1.1 billion and DFC amounted to EUR 0.3 billion. 4 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 127 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Reporting scope risk 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Strategy Loan Loan Gross carrying impairment Carrying Gross carrying impairment Carrying (in millions) amount allowance amount amount allowance amount Loans and receivables banks 13,488 3 13,485 15,682 2 15,680 Residential mortgages1 152,328 258 152,069 151,866 324 151,543 Less: Fair value adjustment from hedge Business accounting on residential mortgages 3,073 3,073 3,401 3,401 Residential mortgages, excluding fair value adjustments1 149,255 258 148,997 148,465 324 148,142 Consumer loans 12,539 433 12,106 15,147 561 14,587 Corporate loans2 92,641 2,895 89,746 101,835 3,380 98,454 Less: Fair value adjustment from hedge Risk, funding & capital accounting on corporate loans 1,722 1,722 1,448 1,448 Corporate loans, excluding fair value adjustments2 90,920 2,895 88,025 100,387 3,380 97,007 Other loans and receivables customers3 13,838 81 13,757 11,882 90 11,792 Less: Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting on other loans and receivables customers 1 1 Other loans and receivables customers, excluding fair value adjustments3 13,838 81 13,757 11,881 90 11,791 Total loans and receivables Leadership customers, excluding fair value adjustments1, 2 266,551 3,666 262,884 275,881 4,355 271,525 Fair value adjustments on Loans and receivables customers 4,794 4,794 4,850 4,850 Total loans and receivables customers1, 2 271,345 3,666 267,679 280,730 4,355 276,375 Total loans and receivables Governance excluding fair value adjustments1, 2 280,039 3,669 276,369 291,563 4,357 287,205 Total fair value adjustments on Loans and receivables 4,794 4,794 4,850 4,850 Total loans and receivables1, 2 284,833 3,669 281,164 296,412 4,357 292,055 Other 113,318 115,318 Annual Financial Statements Total assets1, 2 394,482 407,373 1 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. The table above gives an overview of the figures reported in the consolidated balance sheet (net) and the figures reported in the Risk management section (gross) and Other excluding fair value adjustments. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 128 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Economic and regulatory capital 7e Corporate Strategy (in millions) Retail Banking Private Banking Banking Group Functions Total 31 December 2016 Credit risk 2,045 502 3,783 321 6,651 Operational risk 500 116 284 460 1,360 Market risk 326 326 Regulatory capital1 2,545 618 4,393 781 8,337 Business Credit risk 2,166 463 4,301 1,170 8,100 Operational risk 385 197 460 171 1,213 Market risk 169 169 Business risk 304 265 632 6 1,207 Other risk types2 248 147 73 5,653 6,121 Economic capital 3,103 1,072 5,635 7,000 16,810 Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2015 Credit risk 2,312 548 3,669 356 6,885 Operational risk 470 110 283 435 1,298 Market risk 457 457 Regulatory capital 1 2,782 658 4,409 791 8,640 Credit risk 2,915 504 4,347 987 8,752 Operational risk 301 206 538 214 1,259 Market risk 145 145 Business risk 353 322 514 7 1,195 Leadership Other risk types2 275 156 97 4,117 4,643 Economic capital 3,843 1,187 5,640 5,324 15,995 1 Minimum regulatory capital (8% of total risk exposure amount), representing the absolute minimum amount of capital required by a bank to cover three major risk types a bank faces. However available total capital ratios are substantially higher, as explained in the capital section. 2 Other risk types include market risk banking book (including interest rate risk) and pension risk. Governance Economic capital (EC) increased to EUR 16.8 billion at Credit risk EC declined as a result of positive developments 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 16.0 billion). within the Retail Banking mortgage portfolio, driven by The rise was driven by the other risk types, related to the upturn in the Dutch economy and the strong housing interest rate risk EC (EUR 1.3 billion), partly offset by market. This resulted in improved collateral values and, a decrease in credit risk EC (EUR 0.6 billion). to a lesser extent, improved credit quality. Annual Financial Statements The increase in interest rate risk EC was mainly driven by the effect of the continued low interest rate environment for residential mortgages. The lower residential mortgage rates led to more consumers fixing their interest rate for a longer term, which increased the interest rate sensitivity of the bank. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 129 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Balance sheet composition Introduction Balance sheet composition A ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog! Connectivity of material topic 12 ABN AMRO is mainly active in the Dutch market and in Strategy Link to Important to these See material topics international operations where we have specific expertise strategy stakeholders and connectivity on and hold leading positions in selective activities. The page 19 balance sheet composition reflects the bank’s moderate risk profile. Business Balance sheet composition at 31 December 2016 Residential mortgages Client deposits Other loans to customers Bank deposits Risk, funding & capital 39% Loans to banks Long-term & subordinated debt Securities financing 58% Securities financing Derivatives Derivatives Financial investments Short-term debt Other assets Equity Other liabilities 29% 3% 3% 4% 19% 4% 3% Leadership 12% 4% 4% 9% 5% 4% Assets Liabilities & equity ÅÅ Strong focus on collateralised lending; For more information with regard to the risk profile, Governance ÅÅ Loan portfolio matched deposits, long-term debt please refer to the risk management strategy paragraph and equity; in the Risk approach chapter. ÅÅ Strategic focus to limit LtD ratio; ÅÅ Limited market risk and trading portfolios; ÅÅ Off-balance sheet commitments and contingent liabilities. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 130 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Credit risk h Credit risk exposure Strategy Credit risk overview b (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Total assets1, 2 394,482 407,373 Less: items that are not subject to credit risk exposure3 11,360 Business 6,795 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk1, 2 383,122 400,578 Off-balance sheet Committed credit facilities 27,299 21,559 Guarantees and other commitments 15,873 13,868 Revocable credit facilities 82,338 82,865 Risk, funding & capital Total Off-balance sheet credit facilities and guarantees 125,511 118,292 Maximum exposure to credit risk 508,633 518,870 Adjustments on assets4 -1,430 -5,968 Valuation adjustments5 4,849 -7,615 Offsetting and netting -31,974 -43,498 Off-balance sheet credit facilities and guarantees -125,511 -118,292 Off-balance sheet exposure fraction expected to be drawn prior to default (Credit Conversion Factors) 28,551 25,672 Total Exposure at Default 383,118 369,169 Leadership Credit risk RWA (REA)/Total Exposure at Default 21.7% 23.3% 1 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 Items that are not subject to credit risk: more details are provided in additional Risk, funding & capital information section, table ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk EU IFRS’. 4 Main adjustments on assets are equity instruments, selected financial assets held for trading and fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 5 Adjustments on valuation include loan impairment allowances. The table above shows maximum exposure to credit risk Governance and reconciliation to the total Exposure at Default. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 131 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Overall credit risk EAD and RWA vrt 31 December 2016 Strategy Netting/ Original Exposure Average RWA (REA)/ Exposure at Default Exposure Exposure Exposure (in millions) at Default mitigation3 at Default at Default RWA (REA) at Default Credit risk IRB Central governments and central banks 54,464 -5,589 60,054 56,986 1,001 1.7% Institutions1 21,226 6,031 15,195 15,895 2,517 16.6% Business Corporates 199,133 91,487 107,647 104,081 41,985 39.0% Retail 179,546 5,702 173,844 173,310 23,366 13.4% of which secured by immovable property 157,957 -2,085 160,042 159,057 18,081 11.3% of which qualifying revolving exposures 12,357 6,363 5,994 6,377 2,534 42.3% of which other retail 9,232 1,424 7,808 7,876 2,750 35.2% Credit valuation adjustment 804 Risk, funding & capital Securitisation positions 1,265 1,265 1,139 95 7.5% Subtotal 455,635 97,631 358,004 351,411 69,767 19.5% Equities not held for trading 1,299 1,299 1,263 5,293 407.5% Other2 1,248 1,248 1,263 1,761 141.1% Total IRB 458,182 97,631 360,551 353,938 76,821 21.3% Credit risk SA Central governments and central banks 4,605 40 4,565 4,271 19 0.4% Institutions1 5,465 43 5,422 5,855 280 5.2% Corporates 5,441 2,063 3,378 3,598 2,599 76.9% Leadership Retail 5,107 3,966 1,141 1,282 761 66.7% Covered bonds Secured by mortgages on immovable property 5,189 33 5,156 4,182 1,009 19.6% Exposures in default 688 637 51 54 58 114.5% Subtotal 26,495 6,781 19,714 19,241 4,726 24.0% Other 2 4,178 1,325 2,853 2,903 1,593 55.8% Total SA Governance 30,672 8,105 22,567 22,144 6,319 28.0% Total 488,854 105,736 383,118 376,081 83,140 21.7% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Other includes default fund contribution (DFC) un der the IRB approach and non-credit obligation assets under the IRB and SA approach. 3 Consists mainly of netting, secured funding trades, guarantees, credit conversion factors, and impairments under the Standardised Approach. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 132 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Overall credit risk EAD and RWA vrt 31 December 2015 Strategy Netting/ Original Exposure Average RWA (REA)/ Exposure at Default Exposure Exposure Exposure (in millions) at Default mitigation3 at Default at Default RWA (REA) at Default Credit risk IRB Central governments and central banks 55,459 -3,433 58,892 50,582 978 1.7% Institutions1 19,099 4,922 14,177 19,438 2,887 20.4% Business Corporates 196,468 97,340 99,128 99,765 40,592 40.9% Retail 179,737 5,608 174,129 174,878 26,631 15.3% of which secured by immovable property 159,573 159,573 160,366 20,269 12.7% of which qualifying revolving exposures 6,796 6,796 6,905 3,005 44.2% of which other retail 13,368 5,608 7,760 7,608 3,357 43.3% Credit valuation adjustment 1,105 Securitisation positions Risk, funding & capital 1,125 1,125 1,268 84 7.5% Subtotal 451,889 104,437 347,452 345,931 72,277 20.8% Equities not held for trading 1,208 1,208 1,229 5,185 429.2% Other2 1,286 1,286 1,299 1,491 115.9% Total IRB 454,383 104,437 349,946 348,459 78,953 22.6% Credit risk SA Central governments and central banks 2,978 20 2,958 2,849 132 4.5% Institutions1 4,485 92 4,393 7,416 153 3.5% Corporates 6,953 2,991 3,962 4,733 3,535 89.2% Leadership Retail 5,617 4,259 1,358 2,076 793 58.4% Covered bonds Secured by mortgages on immovable property 2,858 26 2,832 3,033 510 18.0% Exposures in default 668 603 65 78 88 134.9% Subtotal 23,558 7,990 15,568 20,185 5,211 33.5% Other2 4,654 999 3,655 3,475 1,900 52.0% Total SA 28,213 8,990 19,223 23,661 7,110 37.0% Governance Total 482,595 113,427 369,169 372,120 86,063 23.3% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Other includes default fund contribution (DFC) un der the IRB approach and non-credit obligation assets under the IRB and SA approach. 3 Consists mainly of netting, secured funding trades, guarantees, credit conversion factors, and impairments under the Standardised Approach. The main movements in credit risk EAD and RWA (REA) Annual Financial Statements are discussed in the Key developments section. In addition to these movements, the standardised EAD portfolio increased to EUR 22.6 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 19.2 billion). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 133 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction RWA (REA) flow statement credit risk EDTF 16 (in millions) Strategy 90,000 2,065 -6.510 1,522 86,063 86,000 83,140 82,000 78,000 Business 74,000 31 December Business Model Other 31 December 2015 volume changes 2016 RWA (REA) decreased to EUR 83.1 billion at by an increase due to model changes. In addition, Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 86.1 billion). RWA (REA) decreased in Private Banking as a result of The decrease, visible in the category other, was mainly lower business volume. Corporate Banking recorded an the result of lower RWA (REA) within Retail Banking, as increase in RWA mainly as a result of higher business a result of higher collateral values and, to lesser extent, volume, partly offset by improved credit quality. improved credit quality. This decrease was partly offset Credit quality by exposure class bv 31 December 2016 Leadership (in millions, Exposure at Default) Investment grade Sub-investment grade Impaired Total Central governments and central banks 59,870 184 60,054 Institutions1 14,567 598 30 15,195 Corporates 41,576 60,641 5,430 107,647 Retail 148,781 23,131 1,932 173,844 of which secured by immovable property 141,736 16,958 1,348 160,042 of which qualifying revolving exposures 2,691 3,070 233 5,994 Governance of which other retail 4,354 3,103 351 7,808 Securitisation positions 1,265 1,265 Total IRB2 266,058 84,554 7,392 358,004 Total SA3 19,714 Total 377,718 31 December 2015 Annual Financial Statements Investment grade Sub-investment grade Impaired Total Central governments and central banks 58,769 123 58,892 Institutions1 13,804 351 22 14,177 Corporates 37,131 56,787 5,211 99,128 Retail 140,275 31,295 2,559 174,129 of which secured by immovable property 134,265 23,555 1,486 159,306 of which qualifying revolving exposures 2,662 3,831 285 6,778 of which other retail 3,348 3,909 788 8,045 Securitisation positions 1,125 1,125 Total IRB 2 251,105 88,556 7,791 347,452 Total SA3 15,568 Other Total 363,020 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 134 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The composition of the credit quality of our portfolio These improvements were the result of the continued improved in 2016. The investment grade portfolio rose to recovery of the Dutch Economy, improved credit ratings Strategy 74% of the portfolio, and the total IRB portfolio increased of our clients, and new investment grade client lending as well. The sub-investment portfolio decreased to 24%. (mainly ECT Clients). Counterparty credit risk vl Counterparty risk by exposure class vl Business 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Total of which: Total of which: Securities Securities financing financing (in millions, Exposure at Default) Derivatives transactions Derivatives transactions Credit risk Risk, funding & capital Central governments and central banks 60,054 367 201 58,892 334 98 Institutions1 15,195 1,832 2,745 14,177 2,114 1,710 Corporates 107,647 2,902 1,335 99,128 3,148 1,756 Retail 173,844 174,129 of which secured by immovable property/retail mortgages 160,042 159,306 of which qualifying revolving exposures 5,994 6,778 of which other retail 7,808 8,045 Securitisation positions 1,265 1,125 Total IRB 2 358,004 5,101 4,281 347,452 5,596 3,564 Leadership Total SA3 19,714 1,519 2,481 15,568 1,417 2,156 Total 377,718 6,620 6,762 363,020 7,012 5,720 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 135 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Credit risk concentration bv The bank monitors and manages country risk based on the country of risk. The country of ultimate risk may be Geographic concentration Strategy different from the country of domicile, e.g. when financing The consolidated exposures in the table are allocated a project in another country than where the borrower to the geographical regions where clients are domiciled. is domiciled. Geographic concentration by EAD bv 31 December 2016 Business The Rest of (in millions, Exposure at Default) Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Central governments and central banks 30,466 23,578 3,477 1,999 533 60,054 Institutions1 3,417 7,153 1,699 2,534 393 15,195 Corporates 54,922 23,937 6,540 10,031 12,217 107,647 Retail 172,990 648 41 95 69 173,844 of which secured by immovable property 159,524 364 36 79 40 160,042 Risk, funding & capital of which qualifying revolving exposures 5,924 58 2 3 7 5,994 of which other retail 7,542 226 4 13 22 7,808 Securitisation positions 1,265 1,265 Total IRB2 263,060 55,316 11,757 14,659 13,212 358,004 Total SA3 8,725 9,086 1,481 192 230 19,714 Total 271,786 64,402 13,238 14,851 13,442 377,718 Percentage of total 72.0% 17.1% 3.5% 3.9% 3.6% 100.0% 31 December 2015 The Rest of Leadership Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Central governments and central banks 31,530 19,894 4,160 2,822 486 58,892 Institutions1 1,897 7,035 2,041 2,604 600 14,177 Corporates 52,876 21,719 5,175 8,157 11,201 99,128 Retail 173,273 651 44 87 74 174,129 of which secured by immovable property 158,756 395 37 71 47 159,306 Governance of which qualifying revolving exposures 6,689 73 3 4 9 6,778 of which other retail 7,828 183 4 12 18 8,045 Securitisation positions 1,125 1,125 Total IRB2 260,702 49,299 11,420 13,670 12,361 347,452 Total SA3 5,490 8,511 1,077 95 395 15,568 Total 266,192 57,810 12,497 13,765 12,756 363,020 Percentage of total 73.3% 15.9% 3.4% 3.8% 3.5% 100.0% Annual Financial Statements 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Total Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. The bank’s portfolio is largely concentrated in the The Exposure at Default increased in the Netherlands to Netherlands (72.0%). Businesses outside the Netherlands EUR 271.8 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: are primarily located in neighbouring countries in Europe. EUR 266.2 billion) and was mainly the result of an increase Specialised activities, such as Energy, Commodities & in the exposure classes corporates and institutions as a Transportation Clients (ECT Clients), Clearing, Asset-Based result of higher business volume. The increase in EaD in Financing, Securities Financing and Private Banking exposure class corporates was related to higher business International, are also located outside Europe. volume in International Clients and was visible in all regions. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 136 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Industry concentration referred to as the guarantor. The industry view, based on ABN AMRO applies industry concentration limits in line original obligor and resultant obligor, differs significantly Strategy with the Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB). In for the real estate, healthcare and public administration the exposure table, non-material industry clusters are industries. The government-guaranteed exposures are aggregated under other. Industry concentration limits are included in the original obligor view under the applicable established in the bank’s risk appetite. In the risk appetite, industry sector. However, in the resultant obligor view thresholds for concentrations are based on relative risk, these exposures are included in the public administration importance of the industry to the Dutch economy and industry sector, as they concern government-related Business expert opinion. exposures. Industry concentration is presented both in terms of The bank manages industry concentrations within the risk original obligor and in terms of resultant obligor. Original appetite by setting credit risk economic capital (EC) limits obligor refers to the counterparty with whom ABN AMRO as a percentage of total credit risk EC per industry sector. originally has the contractual relationship, often referred to The bank does not manage concentration based on EAD Risk, funding & capital as the borrower. The resultant obligor is the counterparty per industry sector. to which ABN AMRO has the ultimate credit risk, often Industry concentration by EAD bv 31 December 2016 Exposure at Default Exposure at Default (in millions, Exposure at Default) (original obligor) Percentage of total (resultant obligor) Percentage of total Leadership Industry sector Banks 19,405 5.1% 18,020 4.8% Financial services1 17,141 4.5% 16,514 4.4% Industrial goods and services 23,203 6.1% 22,943 6.1% Real estate 14,515 3.8% 12,854 3.4% Oil and gas 14,563 3.9% 14,587 3.9% Food and beverage 15,154 4.0% 15,094 4.0% Governance Retail 5,634 1.5% 5,585 1.5% Basic resources 4,561 1.2% 4,550 1.2% Healthcare 4,653 1.2% 4,737 1.3% Construction and materials 3,606 1.0% 3,524 0.9% Other2 17,599 4.7% 17,635 4.7% Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 140,035 37.1% 136,043 36.0% Annual Financial Statements Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 182,597 48.3% 182,739 48.4% Public administration (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 55,087 14.6% 58,937 15.6% Subtotal non-Industry Classification Benchmark 237,683 62.9% 241,675 64.0% Exposure at Default3 377,718 100.0% 377,718 100.0% 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes travel and leisure, utilities, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobile and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 137 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Industry concentration by EAD bv 31 December 2015 Strategy Exposure at Default Exposure at Default (in millions, Exposure at Default) (original obligor) Percentage of total (resultant obligor) Percentage of total Industry sector Banks 16,230 4.5% 15,101 4.2% Financial services1 14,982 4.1% 13,326 3.7% Industrial goods and services 22,148 6.1% 21,932 6.0% Business Real estate 13,244 3.6% 12,021 3.3% Oil and gas 12,119 3.3% 12,011 3.3% Food and beverage 13,924 3.8% 13,810 3.8% Retail 5,132 1.4% 5,059 1.4% Basic resources 4,378 1.2% 4,347 1.2% Healthcare 4,871 1.3% 4,725 1.3% Construction and materials 3,559 1.0% 3,460 1.0% Risk, funding & capital Other2 16,927 4.7% 17,583 4.8% Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 127,514 35.1% 123,375 34.0% Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 178,105 49.1% 178,276 49.1% Public administration (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 57,401 15.8% 61,369 16.9% Subtotal non-Industry Classification Benchmark 235,506 64.9% 239,645 66.0% Exposure at Default3 363,020 100.0% 363,020 100.0% Leadership 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes travel and leisure, utilities, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobile and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Almost half of the credit risk exposures in EaD is related to Credit risk mitigation bz Governance private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark), which is mainly related to residential mortgage loans and, Offsetting, netting, collateral and guarantees to a lesser extent, consumer loans. Private individuals bz increased to EUR 182.7 billion at 31 December 2016 Collateral reporting is based on the net collateral value (31 December 2015: EUR 178.3 billion) in the resultant (NCV). NCV expresses the value of collateral in the event obligor view. of a forced sale and is equal to the expected recovery Annual Financial Statements value of the collateral pledged to the bank. Surplus Banks, financial services, oil and gas, food and beverages, collateral is the amount of over-collateralisation, calculated and industrial goods and services increased as a result of on an individual basis. A surplus for guarantees is not higher business volume related to International Clients included as collateral as the debtor can only be liable (mainly ECT Clients and Large Corporates). for the maximum debt. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 138 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Financial assets: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees bz 31 December 2016 Strategy Offset in the statement Not offset in the statement Net of financial position of financial position exposure7 Balance Carrying sheet Other amount netting Master Financial Property collatbefore with netting instru& eral and Surplus balancegross Carrying agreements equipguaranTotal risk collat(in millions) sheet netting liabilities amount ment collateral 5 ment tees mitigation eral6 Business Financial assets held for trading 1,572 1,572 1,572 Derivatives 14,384 14,384 11,390 5 11,396 2,989 Securities financing 20,463 2,873 17,589 234 20,634 20,868 3,443 164 Interest-bearing deposits 5,789 749 5,041 36 1,134 1,170 1,134 5,005 Risk, funding & capital Loans and advances 5,162 5,162 4,187 4,187 976 Other 3,282 3,282 146 146 3,137 Total loans and receivables banks 14,234 749 13,485 4,223 1,134 146 5,502 1,134 9,117 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1, 2, 3 149,954 958 148,997 2,047 180,013 6,279 188,339 50,979 11,637 Consumer loans1 12,141 35 12,106 3,381 5,028 27 8,436 3,583 7,253 Corporate loans1 93,458 5,434 88,025 3,086 28,136 43,807 15,225 90,253 25,591 23,363 Leadership Other loans and receivables customers4 13,777 20 13,757 684 3,430 3,232 1,108 8,454 1,144 6,447 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting 4,794 4,794 4,794 Total Loans and receivables customers1 274,125 6,447 267,679 3,770 36,993 232,080 22,639 295,482 81,298 53,494 Governance Other assets 2,299 2,299 55 55 2,244 Total on-balance sheet subject to netting and pledged agreements1 327,077 10,069 317,008 19,617 58,761 232,080 22,845 333,303 85,874 69,580 Assets not subject to netting and pledged agreements 77,473 77,473 77,473 Annual Financial Statements Total assets1 404,550 10,069 394,482 19,617 58,761 232,080 22,845 333,303 85,874 147,053 Total off-balance sheet 125,511 125,511 6,779 6,598 4,270 17,646 5,148 113,012 Total onand offbalance sheet1 530,061 10,069 519,993 19,617 65,540 238,678 27,115 350,949 91,022 260,066 1 Carrying amount includes Loan impairment allowances. 2 In 2016 the bank concluded that partial derecognition should be applied for certain savings mortgages. The adjustment of the carrying amounts before balance sheet netting is EUR 6.3 billion negative in 2016 (2015: EUR 6.4 billion negative). This adjustment does not impact the reported carrying amounts after balance sheet netting. 3 The impact of the netting adjustment is included. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies in the Annual financial statements. 4 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 5 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. Surplus collateral is the amount of over-collateralisation, calculated on an individual basis. Other 6 7 Net exposure represents the portfolio corrected for the surplus amount and gives a view on the potential shortfall in collateral on the total portfolio. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 139 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Financial assets: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees bz 31 December 2015 Strategy Offset in the statement Not offset in the statement Net of financial position of financial position exposure10 Balance Carrying sheet Other amount netting Master Financial Property collatbefore with netting instru& eral and Surplus balancegross Carrying agreements equipguaranTotal risk collat­ (in millions) sheet netting liabilities amount ment collateral 8 ment tees mitigation eral9 Business Financial assets held for trading 1,687 1,687 1,687 Derivatives 19,138 19,138 14,907 14,907 4,231 Securities financing 23,405 3,343 20,062 361 21,859 22,219 2,358 201 Interest-bearing deposits 5,283 453 4,831 7 1,668 1,675 1,332 4,488 Risk, funding & capital Loans and advances 8,114 8,114 7,275 74 7,349 765 Other 2,735 2,735 4 4 2,732 Total loans and receivables banks1 16,133 453 15,680 7,282 1,742 4 9,027 1,332 7,984 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages2, 3, 4, 5 148,712 570 148,142 1,693 170,418 7,887 179,999 45,877 14,020 Consumer loans2 14,902 316 14,587 6,474 5,419 53 11,946 4,540 7,181 Corporate loans2, 6 98,690 1,683 97,007 3,920 45,243 42,594 13,006 104,763 24,891 17,135 Leadership Other loans and receivables customers7 11,956 165 11,791 748 2,590 3,006 1,406 7,750 842 4,883 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting 4,850 4,850 4,850 Total Loans and receivables customers1, 2, 3, 6 279,110 2,734 276,375 4,668 56,001 221,437 22,352 304,458 76,151 48,068 Other assets 1,899 1,899 161 161 1,737 Governance Total on-balance sheet subject to netting and pledged agreements2, 3, 6 341,371 6,530 334,841 27,217 79,601 221,437 22,517 350,772 79,841 63,909 Assets not subject to netting and pledged agreements 72,533 72,533 72,533 Total assets2, 3, 6 413,903 6,530 407,373 27,217 79,601 221,437 22,517 350,772 79,841 136,441 Annual Financial Statements Total off-balance sheet 118,292 118,292 5,226 5,710 1,643 12,578 5,435 111,149 Total onand off-balance sheet2, 3, 6 532,196 6,530 525,665 27,217 84,827 227,147 24,160 363,351 85,275 247,590 1 As of year-end 2015 a refined methology for collateral reporting has been applied. 2 Carrying amount includes Loan impairment allowances. 3 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 4 In 2016 the bank concluded that partial derecognition should be applied for certain savings mortgages. The adjustment of the carrying amounts before balance sheet netting is EUR 6.3 billion negative in 2016 (2015: EUR 6.4 billion negative). This adjustment does not impact the reported carrying amounts after balance sheet netting. 5 The impact of the netting adjustment is included. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies in the Annual financial statements. 6 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Other 7 8 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. 9 Surplus collateral is the amount of over-collateralisation, calculated on an individual basis. 10 Net exposure represents the portfolio corrected for the surplus amount and gives a view on the potential shortfall in collateral on the total portfolio. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 140 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Total net exposure of total loans and receivables customers Corporate loans showed a strong decrease in financial increased to EUR 53.5 billion at 31 December 2016 instruments to EUR 28.1 billion at 31 December 2016 Strategy (31 December 2015: EUR 48.1 billion). This was mainly (31 December 2015: EUR 45.2 billion). The strong decline due to increased net exposure in corporate loans and was mainly attributable to the adjustment of the offsetting other loans and receivables-customers, partially offset policy in Q2 2016 (impact of EUR 1.7 billion at by residential mortgages. 31 December 2016, compared with EUR 15.5 billion at 31 December 2015). The net exposure increased to The net exposure of residential mortgages significantly EUR 23.4 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: Business decreased, arriving at EUR 11.6 billion at 31 December EUR 17.1 billion). This was primarily due to higher exposure 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 14.0 billion). This was the levels within International Clients relating to large corporate result of an increase in property and equipment resulting and investment grade Commodities Clients. These clients from a rise in housing prices. generally have a low risk profile, and it is common practice for them to have non-collateralised loans. The total risk mitigation for consumer loans decreased Risk, funding & capital by EUR 3.5 billion, mainly due to the reclassification of The net exposure of other loans and receivables – the bank’s Private Banking operations in Asia and the customers increased to EUR 6.4 billion (31 December 2015: Middle East from consumer loans to assets held for sale. EUR 4.9 billion), mainly due to clearing activities. The reclassification had limited impact on the net exposure. Financial liabilities: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees b 31 December 2016 Leadership Offset in the statement Not offset in the statement Net of financial position of financial position exposure Carrying Balance amount sheet before netting Master Financial balancewith netting instrusheet gross Carrying agreements Surplus Total risk (in millions) netting assets amount ment1 collateral collateral mitigation Governance Financial liabilities held for trading 791 791 791 Derivatives 14,526 14,526 13,113 13,113 1,414 Securities financing 14,499 2,873 11,625 235 13,589 3,289 17,114 1,090 Deposits 13,797 403 13,394 3,210 3,210 10,185 Other 25 25 25 Due to banks Annual Financial Statements 13,823 403 13,419 3,210 3,210 10,210 Deposits 235,550 6,792 228,758 3,059 3,059 225,698 Other borrowings Due to customers 235,550 6,792 228,758 3,059 3,059 225,698 Other liabilities 6,503 6,503 6,503 Total liabilities subject to netting arrangements 285,691 10,069 275,623 19,617 13,589 3,289 36,495 245,705 Remaining liabilities not subject to netting 99,922 99,922 99,922 Total liabilities 385,613 10,069 375,544 19,617 13,589 3,289 36,495 345,627 1 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Other Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 141 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Financial liabilities: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees b 31 December 2015 Strategy Offset in the statement Not offset in the statement Net of financial position of financial position exposure Carrying Balance amount sheet Master Financial before netting netting instrubalancewith gross Carrying agreements Surplus Total risk (in millions) sheet netting assets amount ment1 collateral collateral mitigation Financial liabilities held for trading 459 459 459 Derivatives 22,425 22,425 19,754 19,754 2,671 Business Securities financing 14,715 3,343 11,372 131 13,682 3,718 17,532 1,277 Deposits 15,053 449 14,604 3,849 3,849 10,756 Other 26 26 26 Risk, funding & capital Due to banks 15,079 449 14,630 3,849 3,849 10,781 Deposits 249,931 2,738 247,192 3,483 3,483 243,709 Other borrowings 160 160 160 Due to customers 250,091 2,738 247,353 3,483 3,483 243,869 Other liabilities 5,729 5,729 5,729 Total liabilities subject to netting arrangements 308,498 6,530 301,968 27,217 13,682 3,718 44,617 264,786 Remaining liabilities not subject to netting 87,821 87,821 87,821 Leadership Total liabilities 396,319 6,530 389,789 27,217 13,682 3,718 44,617 352,607 1 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. Management of forborne, past due Clients (potentially) in financial difficulty, for whom contract Governance and impaired loans amendments have been made since 1 January 2012 that are considered concessions on the part of the bank, Forborne exposures b are accounted for as forborne assets. Contracts that The following table provides an overview of forborne were in a recovery phase at the reporting date are not assets, broken down into performing and non-performing considered forborne. assets, specified by type of forbearance measure. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 142 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Overview of forborne assets b 31 December 2016 Strategy Performing assets3 Non-performing assets3 Total Total TempoPermaperformTempoPermanon-perForGross rary nent ing rary nent forming Total bearcarrying modifimodifiRefiforborne modifimodifiRefiforborne forborne ance (in millions) amount cation cation nancing assets cation cation nancing assets assets ratio Loans and receivables banks 13,488 0.0% Loans and receivables Business customers Residential mortgages1 149,255 817 12 107 936 208 7 23 237 1,173 0.8% Consumer loans 12,539 127 35 122 283 91 11 134 237 519 4.1% Corporate loans 1 90,920 1,554 1,207 817 3,578 625 1,234 1,222 3,080 6,658 7.3% Other loans and Risk, funding & capital receivables customers2 13,838 121 117 2 240 54 62 2 119 359 2.6% Total Loans and receivables customers 266,551 2,618 1,370 1,048 5,037 978 1,314 1,381 3,673 8,710 3.3% Total 280,039 2,618 1,370 1,048 5,037 978 1,314 1,381 3,673 8,710 3.1% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 3 For reporting purposes, the classification of (non-) performing forborne assets is based on the impaired status of the client. Overview of forborne assets b 31 December 2015 Leadership Performing assets6 Non-performing assets6, 7 Total Total TempoPermaperformTempoPermanon-perForGross rary nent ing rary nent forming Total bearcarrying modifimodifiRefiforborne modifimodifiRefiforborne forborne ance (in millions) amount cation cation nancing assets cation cation nancing assets assets ratio Loans and receivables Governance banks 15,682 0.0% Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1, 2 148,465 1,122 23 204 1,349 354 14 39 408 1,757 1.2% Consumer loans1, 3 15,147 174 77 42 293 105 72 179 355 648 4.3% Corporate loans1, 4 100,387 2,074 1,533 1,496 5,102 634 938 1,041 2,613 7,715 7.7% Annual Financial Statements Other loans and receivables customers1, 5 11,881 110 39 148 109 124 2 235 383 3.2% Total Loans and receivables customers1, 2, 4, 5 275,881 3,481 1,671 1,741 6,893 1,202 1,148 1,262 3,611 10,504 3.8% Total1, 4 291,563 3,481 1,671 1,741 6,893 1,202 1,148 1,262 3,611 10,504 3.6% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 Within consumer loans a reclassification was made from performing refinancing to non-performing refinancing. Comparative figures before 30 September 2016 have been adjusted (31 December 2015 EUR 132 million). 4 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Other 5 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 6 For reporting purposes, the classification of (non-) performing forborne assets is based on the impaired status of the client. 7 As of 31 March 2016, contracts can discontinue the forborne status as a result of passing the probation period (i.e. ceased to be forborne). Ceased to forborne contracts are still included in the year-end 2015 figures. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 143 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The total forborne portfolio decreased significantly to Forborne corporate loans decreased to EUR 6.7 billion EUR 8.7 billion at year-end 2016 (31 December 2015: at year-end 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 7.7 billion). Strategy EUR 10.5 billion). This decline was mainly attributable to The decline related to developments within the developments within the corporate loans and residential performing forborne portfolio, which decreased mainly mortgages portfolio. as a result of the outflow of forborne exposure due to forborne contracts that passed the probation period Total forborne assets within residential mortgages decreased (cease to be forborne). To a lesser extent, the decline in to EUR 1.2 billion at year-end 2016 (31 December 2015: performing forborne corporate loans related to new Business EUR 1.8 billion). The performing forborne portfolio declined offsetting agreements. The non-performing forborne by EUR 0.4 billion, mainly as a result of forborne contracts corporate loans increased by EUR 0.5 billion, mainly due that passed the probation period (cease to be forborne). to an inflow of new forborne clients, primarily related The non-performing forborne portfolio decreased to to the oil and gas industry and to a lesser extent to EUR 0.2 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: the industrial goods and services sector. EUR 0.4 billion). This decline was mainly due to the Risk, funding & capital recovery strategy which was applied to these forborne Past due exposures b contracts. Total inflow of new forborne exposure was When a counterparty is past due or exceeds its credit limit, very limited in 2016. all loans and receivables (total gross carrying amount) in the related credit arrangement are considered past due. Ageing of past due not classified as impaired b 31 December 2016 Leadership Carrying amount Days past due Total Assets not past due classified > 30 & > 60 & but not Past due (in millions) Gross as impaired <= 30 <= 60 <= 90 >90 impaired ratio Securities financing 17,590 17,589 0.0% Governance Loans and receivables banks 13,488 13,488 0.0% Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgage1 149,255 147,998 1,897 190 39 8 2,134 1.4% Consumer loans 12,539 11,800 230 121 51 86 488 3.9% Corporate loans1 90,920 84,225 343 106 52 93 594 0.7% Other loans and receivables customers1, 2 13,838 13,616 242 75 50 19 386 2.8% Annual Financial Statements Total Loans and receivables customers 266,551 257,639 2,712 492 192 206 3,602 1.4% Other assets 2,303 2,291 136 20 16 13 185 8.0% Total 299,932 291,007 2,848 513 208 219 3,788 1.3% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 144 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Ageing of past due not classified as impaired b 31 December 2015 Strategy Carrying amount Days past due5 Total past Assets not due but classified as > 30 & > 60 & not Past due (in millions) Gross5 impaired5 <= 30 <= 60 <= 90 >90 impaired5 ratio5 Securities financing 20,073 20,062 0.0% Business Loans and receivables banks 15,682 15,680 0.0% Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgage1, 2 148,465 146,954 2,164 239 51 2,455 1.7% Consumer loans1 15,147 14,119 301 115 28 75 520 3.4% Corporate loans1, 3 100,387 94,208 610 117 6 146 879 0.9% Other loans and receivables customers1, 4 11,881 11,563 185 27 15 124 350 2.9% Risk, funding & capital Total Loans and receivables customers1, 2, 3 275,881 266,844 3,260 498 100 345 4,203 1.5% Other assets 1,903 1,892 180 33 20 9 242 12.7% Total1, 2 313,538 304,478 3,440 531 120 354 4,445 1.4% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 4 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 5 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments Leadership for residential mortgages. The total past due exposure on loans and receivables The decrease in corporate loans past due was mainly decreased to EUR 3.6 billion at 31 December 2016 attributable to the <= 30 days past due bucket and also (31 December 2015: EUR 4.2 billion). The decline was related to the improved economic circumstances in attributable to the residential mortgages and the the Netherlands. Governance corporate loans portfolio. Past due exposure on residential mortgages decreased to EUR 2.1 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 2.5 billion), as a result of the continued upturn of the Dutch economy and active management of the portfolio Annual Financial Statements in arrears. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 145 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Impaired exposures b Coverage and impaired ratio b Strategy 31 December 2016 Allowances for Impairments Gross carrying Impaired for identified (in millions) amount exposures credit risk3 Coverage ratio Impaired ratio Securities financing 17,590 0.0% Business Loans and receivables banks 13,488 0.0% Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 149,255 1,257 -209 16.7% 0.8% Consumer loans 12,539 738 -387 52.4% 5.9% Corporate loans1 90,920 6,695 -2,761 41.2% 7.4% Risk, funding & capital Other loans and receivables customers1, 2 13,838 222 -68 30.7% 1.6% Total Loans and receivables customers 266,551 8,912 -3,425 38.4% 3.3% Other assets 2,303 12 -5 37.5% 0.5% Total on-balance sheet 299,932 8,925 -3,430 38.4% 3.0% Total off-balance sheet 125,518 134 0.1% 0.1% Total 425,449 9,059 -3,430 37.9% 2.1% Leadership 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 3 Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 146 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Coverage and impaired ratio b 31 December 2015 Strategy Allowances for Impairments Gross carrying Impaired for identified (in millions) amount exposures6 credit risk5, 6 Coverage ratio6 Impaired ratio6 Securities financing 20,073 11 -11 100.0% 0.1% Loans and receivables banks 15,682 2 -2 100.0% 0.0% Business Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1, 2 148,465 1,511 -245 16.2% 1.0% Consumer loans1 15,147 1,028 -471 45.8% 6.8% Corporate loans1, 3 100,387 6,179 -3,098 50.1% 6.2% Other loans and receivables customers 1, 4 11,881 318 -78 24.7% 2.7% Total Loans and receivables customers1, 2, 3 Risk, funding & capital 275,881 9,037 -3,892 43.1% 3.3% Other assets 1,903 11 -4 36.9% 0.6% Total on-balance sheet1, 2, 3 313,538 9,060 -3,908 43.1% 2.9% Total off-balance sheet 118,300 117 0.1% 0.1% Total1, 2, 3 431,838 9,177 -3,909 42.6% 2.1% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Leadership 3 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 4 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 5 Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). 6 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments for residential mortgages. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 147 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Coverage ratio1 Audited Residential mortgages (in %) Consumer loans (in %) Corporate loans (in %)2 Strategy 75 75 75 60 60 60 52.4 50.1 45.8 45 45 45 41.2 30 30 30 16.2 16.7 Business 15 15 15 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Impaired ratio1 Audited Residential mortgages (in %)3 Consumer loans (in %) Corporate loans (in %)2 Risk, funding & capital 10 10 10 8 8 8 7.4 6.8 5.9 6.2 6 6 6 4 4 4 2 2 2 1.0 0.8 Leadership 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 1 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. For comparison reasons the historical periods before 30 September 2016 have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments within residential mortgages. For more information on the reclassification in allowances refer to the residential mortgages section. 2 ABN AMRO amended its offsetting policy in Q2 2016. The year-end 2015 figures have been adjusted accordingly. 3 Netting for bank saving mortgages is no longer applied, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparing figures have been adjusted accordingly. As of 30 September 2016, ABN AMRO aligned its definitions Impaired exposures for total loans and receivables Governance of default and impaired in the third quarter of 2016. As a customers at year-end 2016 were slightly lower than at result, defaulted clients without an impairment allowance year-end 2015. At portfolio level, the impaired residential are now also considered impaired. The comparative mortgages and consumer loans decreased, offset by figures for the impaired portfolio at 31 December 2015 corporate loans. Allowances for impairments decreased to have been restated accordingly. Due to this change, there EUR 3.4 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: has been a reclassification of allowances for impairments EUR 3.9 billion), mainly in the Commercial Clients Annual Financial Statements for residential mortgages. The IBNI allowances for portfolio, reflecting the upturn of the Dutch economy. exposures at default without an impairment allowance, totalling around EUR 32 million at 30 September 2016, The impaired residential mortgages decreased to were reclassified as allowances for impairment for EUR 1.3 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: identified credit risk. Please note that this impact on EUR 1.5 billion), driven by a continuously lower inflow allowances for impairments has not been restated for and a high level of outflow from the impaired portfolio. the comparative figures. The growing outflow of clients to the performing portfolio together with a higher demand for houses, enabling faster settlement of files in long-term arrears, resulted in the high outflow. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 148 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The decline of the impaired portfolio in combination Impaired corporate loans rose to EUR 6.7 billion with an increased mortgage portfolio resulted in the (31 December 2015: EUR 6.2 billion), primarily due to Strategy impaired ratio at year-end 2016 improving to 0.8% impaired files in the ECT Clients portfolio related to the (31 December 2015: 1.0%). Allowances for impairments oil and gas industry, and a single large file in the decreased by 15% due to the improvement of the Dutch Commercial Clients portfolio. The ECT Clients exposures housing market, resulting in a coverage ratio of 16.7% at have a relatively low coverage ratio as these exposures are 31 December 2016 (31 December 2016: 16.2%). Note largely collateralised. The additions were offset by several that if the impact for default and impaired alignment reversals noted in the Commercial Clients portfolio (with Business had been adjusted historically, the coverage ratio for a higher coverage ratio). As a result, we noted a higher 31 December 2015 would have been 18.5%. impaired ratio of 7.4% and a lower coverage ratio of 41.2% (31 December 2015: 6.2% and 50.1%). As a result of write-offs and files returning to the normal portfolio, impaired exposure as well as allowances for The impaired ratio for other loans and receivables improved impairments for consumer loans declined in 2016. In to 1.6% (31 December 2015: 2.7 %), mainly due to full Risk, funding & capital combination with a smaller portfolio, this led to an improved repayments of impairment loans in combination with an impaired ratio of 5.9% and an increased coverage ratio of increased portfolio. The coverage ratio increased to 30.7% 52.4% at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: 6.8% at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: 24.7%). and 45.8%). Loan impairment charges and allowances bvk Securities Corporate Residential Consumer Leadership (in millions) financing Banks loans1 mortgages loans Other loans Total Balance at 1 January 2016 11 2 3,470 324 561 1 4,368 Impairment charges for the period 2 886 115 184 2 1,189 Reversal of impairment allowances no longer required -2 -2 -828 -34 -127 -993 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off -17 -24 -40 -82 Governance Total impairment charges on loans and other receivables -2 42 56 17 2 115 Amount recorded in interest income from unwinding of discounting -47 -40 -8 -94 Currency translation differences 20 20 Amounts written-off (net) -8 -595 -89 -146 -837 Annual Financial Statements Reserve for unearned interest accrued on impaired loans 76 2 14 92 Other adjustments 7 5 -5 -1 6 Balance at 31 December 2016 3 2,973 258 433 2 3,670 1 Corporate loans includes Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 149 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Individual and collective loan impairment allowances b 31 December 2016 Strategy Securities Corporate Residential Consumer (in millions) financing Banks loans1 mortgages loans Other loans Total Individual impairment 2,583 51 150 2,785 Collective impairment 3 390 207 283 2 885 Balance at 31 December 2016 3 2,973 258 433 2 3,670 Carrying amount of loans, individually Business determined to be impaired, before deducting any individually assessed impairment allowance 6,695 1,257 738 222 8,912 1 Corporate loans includes Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Loan impairment charges and allowances bvk Risk, funding & capital Securities Corporate Residential Consumer (in millions) financing Banks loans1 mortgages2 loans Other loans Total Balance at 1 January 2015 11 3,439 538 654 129 4,771 Impairment charges for the period 1 1,096 137 160 1,394 Reversal of impairment allowances no longer required -643 -99 -76 -818 Recoveries of amounts previously written off -7 -25 -42 -74 Total impairment charges Leadership on loans and other receivables 446 14 43 502 Amount recorded in interest income from unwinding of discounting -45 -50 -10 -105 Currency translation differences 1 79 2 82 Amounts written off (net) -629 -174 -150 -953 Reserve for unearned interest Governance accrued on impaired loans 59 12 71 Other adjustments 2 123 -5 12 -131 Balance at 31 December 2015 11 2 3,470 324 561 1 4,368 1 Corporate loans includes Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 2 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification from IBNI to allowances for impairments for identified credit risk within residential mortgages. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 150 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Individual and collective loan impairment allowances b 31 December 2015 Strategy Securities Corporate Residential Consumer (in millions) financing Banks loans1 mortgages loans Other loans Total Individual impairment 11 2 2,860 16 197 3,085 Collective impairment 1 610 307 364 1 1,283 Balance at 31 December 2015 11 2 3,470 324 561 1 4,368 Carrying amount of loans, individually Business determined to be impaired, before deducting any individually assessed impairment allowance 11 2 6,179 1,511 1,028 318 9,049 1 Corporate loans includes Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Loan impairment charges onand off-balance sheet b Risk, funding & capital (in millions) 2016 2015 On-balance sheet 115 502 Off-balance sheet 3 Total impairment charges on loans and other receivables 114 505 Total on-balance impairment charges dropped sharply Impairment charges for residential mortgages increased to EUR 115 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 502 million). to EUR 56 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 14 million), mainly This decrease was driven by corporate loans. impacted by lower IBNI releases and, to a lesser extent, Leadership higher additions. Impairment charges for corporate loans decreased sharply to EUR 42 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 446 million), mainly Consumer loans declined to EUR 17 million in 2016 as a result of significantly lower additions and higher (2015: EUR 43 million), benefiting from the upturn releases within Commercial Clients following from the of the Dutch economy. improvement of the Dutch economy. The decline in Governance Commercial Clients was slightly offset by International Clients, mainly due to additions related to the Energy and Transportation sectors within ECT Clients. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 151 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by geography and industry v Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by geography v Strategy 31 December 2016 Exposures past Impairment Forborne due, but not Impaired Allowances for charges for the (in millions) exposure impaired exposures impairments1 period1 The Netherlands 6,460 3,248 6,254 -2,282 123 Rest of Europe 739 515 947 -334 84 Business USA 389 357 -97 60 Asia 309 20 187 -96 18 Rest of the world 812 5 1,179 -621 51 Total On-balance 8,710 3,788 8,925 -3,430 335 Off-balance 134 Total 8,710 3,788 9,059 -3,430 335 Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2015 Exposures past Impairment Forborne due, but not Impaired Allowances for charges for the exposure impaired2, 3 exposures2, 3 impairments1 period1 The Netherlands 9,280 3,980 7,315 -2,804 582 Rest of Europe 511 419 784 -377 61 USA 72 64 -49 5 Asia 189 1 111 -67 38 Rest of the world 452 44 787 -612 42 Leadership Total On-balance 10,504 4,445 9,060 -3,908 728 Off-balance 117 Total 10,504 4,445 9,177 -3,909 728 1 Amounts excluding Incurred But not Identified (IBNI). 2 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments for residential mortgages. 3 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Governance The largest decline in forborne exposure was observed The decline in past due but not impaired exposure was for the Netherlands, which amounted to EUR 6.5 billion mainly visible in the Netherlands. This was driven by the at year-end 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 9.3 billion). decline in past due exposure for domestic Commercial This decline was mainly the result of forborne contracts Clients and residential mortgages. Annual Financial Statements that passed the probation period (cease to be forborne) within corporate loans and residential mortgages and, to Impaired exposures decreased mainly in the Netherlands, a lesser extent, to the application of a recovery strategy due to the decline in residential mortgages, consumer to forborne contracts within the corporate loans portfolio. loans and the domestic commercial clients portfolio. Forborne exposure mainly increased within the US and The increases outside the Netherlands were mainly the rest of the world, which was primarily the result of related to ECT Clients related files as well to FX currency an inflow of new forborne corporate loans related to impact (mainly USD). the industrial goods and services sector and the oil and gas sector. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 152 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by industry v 31 December 2016 Strategy Allowances for ImpairExposures impairments ment past due, for charges Exposure Forborne Forborne but not Past due Impaired Impaired identified for the (in millions) at Default exposures ratio (EAD) impaired ratio (EAD) exposures ratio (EAD) credit risk4 period4 Industry sector Business Banks 19,405 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% -4 Financial services1 17,141 90 0.5% 49 0.3% 782 4.6% -655 -19 Industrial goods and services 23,203 2,271 9.8% 290 1.2% 1,786 7.7% -602 190 Real estate 14,515 604 4.2% 137 0.9% 606 4.2% -202 -37 Oil and gas 14,563 1,213 8.3% 3 0.0% 890 6.1% -188 102 Food and beverage 15,154 1,049 6.9% 105 0.7% 676 4.5% -170 -23 Risk, funding & capital Retail 5,634 462 8.2% 157 2.8% 541 9.6% -195 -22 Basic resources 4,561 222 4.9% 5 0.1% 489 10.7% -197 14 Healthcare 4,653 171 3.7% 21 0.4% 204 4.4% -139 -23 Construction and materials 3,606 459 12.7% 60 1.7% 483 13.4% -238 21 Other2 17,599 534 3.0% 343 2.0% 625 3.6% -254 -14 Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 140,035 7,074 5.1% 1,169 0.8% 7,084 5.1% -2,841 186 Leadership Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 182,597 1,635 0.9% 2,618 1.4% 1,975 1.1% -589 149 Public administration (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 55,087 1 Governance Subtotal non-Industry Classification Benchmark 237,683 1,635 0.7% 2,619 1.1% 1,975 0.8% -589 149 Total3 377,718 8,710 2.3% 3,788 1.0% 9,059 2.4% -3,430 335 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobiles and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 4 Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 153 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by industry v 31 December 2015 Strategy Allowances for Exposures impairments past due, for Impairment Exposure Forborne Forborne but not Past due Impaired Impaired identified charges for (in millions) at Default exposures ratio (EAD) impaired5 ratio (EAD)5 exposures5 ratio (EAD)5 credit risk6 the year6 Industry sector Banks 16,230 0.0% 0.0% 12 0.1% -12 Business Financial services1, 2 14,982 113 0.8% 79 0.5% 947 6.3% -696 14 Industrial goods and services2 22,148 2,198 9.9% 338 1.5% 1,392 6.3% -608 78 Real estate2 13,244 863 6.5% 250 1.9% 852 6.4% -324 13 Oil and gas2 12,119 707 5.8% 6 0.0% 185 1.5% -73 13 Food and beverage2 13,924 1,151 8.3% 179 1.3% 719 5.2% -246 52 Retail2 Risk, funding & capital 5,132 1,374 26.8% 123 2.4% 695 13.5% -282 93 Basic resources 2 4,378 307 7.0% 40 0.9% 430 9.8% -223 57 Healthcare2 4,871 316 6.5% 25 0.5% 234 4.8% -167 102 Construction and materials2 3,559 474 13.3% 34 1.0% 591 16.6% -285 80 Other3 16,927 677 4.0% 401 2.4% 672 4.0% -295 71 Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 127,514 8,179 6.4% 1,476 1.2% 6,730 5.3% -3,210 574 Private individuals Leadership (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 178,105 2,325 1.3% 2,969 1.7% 2,447 1.4% -698 154 Public administration (non-Industry Classification Benchmark)2 57,401 1 Subtotal non-Industry Governance Classification Benchmark 235,506 2,325 1.0% 2,970 1.3% 2,448 1.0% -698 154 Total4 363,020 10,504 2.9% 4,445 1.2% 9,177 2.5% -3,909 728 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 Other includes, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobiles and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. 4 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Annual Financial Statements 5 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments for residential mortgages. 6 Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). The largest decrease in forborne assets was recorded in and was primarily related to forborne contracts that the retail sector, mainly as a result of new offsetting passed the probation period (cease to be forborne). agreements. Within the private individuals sector, total The largest increase in forborne assets was observed forborne exposures decreased to EUR 1.6 billion at within the oil and gas industry, as a result of an inflow year-end 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 2.3 billion), of new forborne contracts. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 154 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The main contributors to the decline in exposures past total of 214,793 houses were sold in 2016, the highest due but not impaired were private individuals, real estate number since CBS and the Land Registry (Kadaster) Strategy and food and beverage. The decrease was primarily related started joint publication in 1995. to the continued upturn of the Dutch economy. The maximum amount for government-guaranteed loans Real estate benefited from the improved economic (NHG) was set at EUR 245,000 at 1 July 2015 (and was conditions as well as repayments, causing impaired slightly increased to EUR 247,450 as of 1 January 2017). exposures to decline. The releases in the allowances The government is restricting home financing by reducing Business for impairments for real estate were mainly attributable the maximum Loan-to-Market Value (LtMV) of a mortgage to the improved underlying collateral values. loan from 102% in 2016 and 101% in 2017, and ultimately to 100% in 2018. Since 2013, new mortgages must be Impaired exposures and allowances for impairments for fully redeemed during the term of the loan based on an private individuals dropped significantly, mainly as a result annuity or linear scheme in order to be eligible for tax of a continued high level of outflow from, and lower inflow deductibility. Mortgage loans that already existed at 31 Risk, funding & capital into, the impaired portfolio for residential mortgages. December 2012 are not affected by this new legislation. Increases in impaired exposure and allowances for For all mortgage loans, new and existing, tax deductibility impairments at industry level were recorded mainly in will be gradually further reduced in the next 25 years from the oil and gas sector due to ECT Clients-related files. a maximum of 52% to 38%. In 2017, the maximum bracket These new files are currently being restructured and for deduction of interest will be lowered to 50.0% (2016: mitigating actions are being taken. Industrial goods and 50.5%). In the improved economic circumstances, the services rose mainly due to a single file in the Commercial housing market had no problem absorbing the restrictions. Clients portfolio. Leadership ABN AMRO’s market share in new mortgage production came to 21.9%1 in 2016 (2015: 19.9%). The strength of Developments in specific portfolios the Dutch housing market is reflected in ABN AMRO’s The following section provides a more detailed overview new mortgage production (28% higher than in 2015). The of developments in specific portfolios and products. NHG proportion of new mortgage production decreased further to 20% in 2016, compared with 40% in 2015. Governance Residential mortgages The Dutch housing market continued The percentage of NHG in total new production declined its strong recovery in 2016. Housing transactions and house considerably since the last reduction of the NHG limit prices rose again, although these improvements were on 1 July 2015. more visible in larger cities in the urban agglomeration. The continued improvement was mainly attributable to low Total redemptions in 2016 amounted to EUR 13.3 billion mortgage interest rates, as well as insufficient residential (2015: EUR 12.4 billion). Full redemptions increased as Annual Financial Statements construction activity combined with favourable Dutch a result of clients refinancing mortgage loans at current economic conditions. The economic upturn also improved historically low mortgage interest rates. Contractual confidence among home buyers. repayments gradually grew, in accordance with current tax regulations. Extra repayments amounted to EUR 2.4 billion The number of transactions in the Dutch housing market in 2016, which was fairly stable compared with 2015 after went up by more than 20% compared with 2015, according EUR 2.7 billion in the peak year 2014. Incentives for the to Statistics Netherlands (CBS). The CBS housing price current extra redemptions are still the very low interest index rose by an average of 5.1% year-on-year. A record rates on savings and an increased awareness among homeowners of the possibility of residual debt at the end of their loan term. Other 1 Source: Calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2016. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 155 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Residential mortgage indicators (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Gross carrying amount excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting1 149,255 148,465 Strategy of which Nationale Hypotheek Garantie (NHG)1 39,293 39,706 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting1 3,073 3,401 Gross carrying amount1 152,328 151,866 Exposure at Default2 165,199 162,405 RWA (REA)2 Business 19,090 20,779 RWA (REA)/Exposure at Default 11.6% 12.8% Forbearance ratio 0.8% 1.2% Past due ratio1, 3 1.4% 1.7% Impaired ratio1, 3 0.8% 1.0% Coverage ratio3 16.7% 16.2% Cost of risk (year to date, in bps)4 Risk, funding & capital 4 1 Average LtMV (indexed) 76% 80% Average LtMV excluding NHG loans (indexed) 73% 76% Total risk mitigation5 188,339 179,999 Total risk mitigation/gross carrying amount6 123.6% 118.5% 1 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 The RWA (REA) and Exposure at Default amounts are based on the exposure class Secured by immovable property. This scope is slightly broader than the residential mortgage portfolio. 3 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparing figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments for residential mortgages. 4 Annualised impairment charges on loans and receivables customers for the period divided by the average loans and receivables customers on the basis of gross carrying amount Leadership and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 5 As of 31 March 2016, ABN AMRO revised the allocation of collateral values for residential mortgages. The year-end 2015 figures have been adjusted for comparison purposes. 6 Gross carrying amount including fair value adjustment The gross carrying amount of the residential The forbearance ratio decreased from 1.2% at mortgage portfolio amounted to EUR 149.3 billion at 31 December 2015 to 0.8% at 31 December 2016, mainly 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 148.5 billion). as a result of clients that passed the probation period Governance New mortgage production increased substantially, partly combined with the recovery strategy, which was applied offset by repayments. NHG-guaranteed loans remained to non-performing forborne clients. The past due ratio relatively stable at 26% of the residential mortgage improved to 1.4% at year-end 2016 (31 December 2015 portfolio compared with 2015. 1.7%) due to fewer clients going into arrears and more clients recovering from arrears. The RWA (REA) for the residential mortgage portfolio Annual Financial Statements decreased to EUR 19.1 billion at the end of 2016 As of 30 September 2016, ABN AMRO aligned the (31 December 2015: EUR 20.8 billion) and was related definitions of default and impaired. As a result, defaulting to updated indexation factors leading to higher collateral clients without an impairment allowance are now also values in combination with fewer clients in arrears, considered impaired. The comparative figures for the partly offset by model changes. Exposure at Default (EaD) impaired portfolio for 31 December 2015 have been increased to EUR 165.2 billion at 31 December 2016 restated accordingly. Due to this change, there has been a (31 December 2015: EUR 162.4 billion) in line with the reclassification in allowances for impairments for residential growing loan portfolio. mortgages. The IBNI allowances for exposures at default without an impairment allowance, totalling EUR 32 million, were reclassified as allowances for impairment for identified Other credit risk. This impact on allowances for impairments has not been restated for the comparative figures. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 156 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The impaired ratio improved to 0.8% at 31 December 2016 Rising house prices and restrictions on the maximum (31 December 2015: 1.0%). The coverage ratio came to Loan-to-Market Value (LtMV) for new residential Strategy 16.7% at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: 16.2%). mortgages resulted in a further improvement of the Both the impaired portfolio and allowances for credit risk average LtMV of the mortgage portfolio to 76% at decreased as a result of the improvement of the Dutch 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: 80%). The same economy. If the impact on allowances for impairments trend is seen for the LtMVs excluding NHG. Extra were to be adjusted historically, the coverage ratio would repayments on residential mortgage loans have a small have been 18.5% at 31 December 2015. impact on the highest LtMV categories. Approximately Business 14% of the extra repayments are related to mortgages Cost of risk remained low at 4bps at 31 December 2016, with an LtMV>100%. but was higher than at 31 December 2015 (1bps). The increased cost of risk can be explained by lower The long-term LtMV of the bank’s portfolio is expected to IBNI releases. decrease further, as a result of the regulatory reduction of the maximum LtMV on mortgage loans, increasing house Risk, funding & capital The risk profile of the residential mortgage portfolio proved prices and redemptions. to be low in the years of economic downturn and has improved since 2014. Residential mortgages to indexed market value Gross carrying amount Percentage of total Leadership of which of which (in millions) guaranteed4 unguaranteed Loan-to-Market Value category1, 2, 3 31 December 2016 <50% 26,021 17.4% 1.9% 15.5% 50% 80% 47,631 31.9% 6.4% 25.5% 80% 90% 23,498 15.7% 5.5% 10.2% Governance 90% 100% 25,498 17.1% 7.0% 10.1% 100% 110% 15,596 10.4% 3.6% 6.9% 110% 120% 6,999 4.7% 1.4% 3.2% >120% 2,110 1.4% 0.5% 1.0% Unclassified 1,904 1.3% Total 149,255 100.0% Annual Financial Statements 31 December 2015 <50% 24,907 16.8% 1.8% 15.0% 50% 80% 40,192 27.1% 5.1% 22.0% 80% 90% 18,471 12.4% 3.6% 8.8% 90% 100% 25,236 17.0% 7.0% 10.0% 100% 110% 19,173 12.9% 5.1% 7.8% 110% 120% 12,775 8.6% 2.9% 5.7% >120% 5,764 3.9% 1.3% 2.6% Unclassified 1,947 1.3% Total 148,465 100% Other 1 ABN AMRO calculates the Loan-to-Market Value using the indexation of the CBS (Statistics Netherlands). 2 As of 31 March 2016, we revised our allocation of collateral values for residential mortgages. The year-end 2015 figures have been adjusted for comparison purposes. 3 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 4 NHG guarantees. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 157 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The gross carrying amount of mortgages with an of the underlying collateral in combination with no new LtMV above 100% decreased to EUR 24.7 billion at inflow into these buckets as a result of current regulations Strategy 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 37.7 million). for tax deductions. Note that LtMVs of more than 100% do not necessarily indicate that these clients are in financial The number of mortgages in the higher LtMV bucket difficulties. However, ABN AMRO advises clients not to range is decreasing mainly due to indexation of the value maintain loans at high LtMV levels. Business Breakdown of residential mortgage portfolio by loan type 2 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Gross Gross (in millions) carrying amount Percentage of total carrying amount Percentage of total Interest only (partially) 47,798 32% 47,943 32% Interest only (100%) 29,638 20% 32,076 22% Risk, funding & capital Redeeming mortgages (annuity/linear) 26,883 18% 18,569 13% Savings 20,860 14% 23,272 16% Life (investment) 15,451 10% 17,787 12% Other2 8,625 6% 8,818 6% Total 149,255 100% 148,465 100% 1 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 Other includes hybrid, other and unclassified mortgage types. The hybrid portfolio consists of a combination of savings and investment mortgages. Leadership The change in tax regulations is reflected in the mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: composition of the mortgage portfolio. The proportion of 13%). Redeeming mortgages is the only category that redeeming mortgages increased to 18% of the residential grew in volume. Breakdown of residential mortgage portfolio by year of last modification1 Governance (in millions) 25 20 15 14.7 14.2 12.3 11.0 11.1 Annual Financial Statements 10 7.8 7.2 7.1 7.9 6.8 6.0 5 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Savings Redeeming (annuity/linear) Interest only Other2 1 Includes the new mortgage production and all mortgages with a modification date. 2 Other includes universal life, life investment, hybrid, other and unclassified mortgage types. The hybrid portfolio consists of a combination of savings and investment mortgages. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 158 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The effects of the Dutch tax regulations implemented in interest-only, 65.8% redeeming mortgages and 2.8% 2013 are clearly visible in the breakdown by year of loan savings mortgages. Interest-only and savings mortgages Strategy modification. Mortgage loan type originations that took can still be produced for clients who wish to refinance place in 2016 (defined as new production and mortgages loans that originated before 2013. with a loan type modification) breaks down into 28.8% Residential mortgages to indexed market value for 100% interest-only Business 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Percentage of total Percentage of total Loan-to-Market Value category1 <50% 9% 9% 50% 70% 6% 6% 70% 100% 4% 6% Risk, funding & capital >100% 0% 1% Total2 20% 22% 1 Loan-to-Market Value is calculated using the indexation of the CBS (Central Bureau of Statistics). 2 Percentages of the total mortgage portfolio. The table above shows the breakdown of the LtMV for This is a very small part of the total mortgage portfolio. the 100% interest-only part of the mortgage portfolio. LtMV above 100% is decreasing as a result of higher On 31 December 2016, 0.46% of the total mortgage house prices and limited inflow in this loan type category Leadership portfolio had an LtMV above 100% and was 100% under the current mortgage acceptance rules. interest-only compared with 0.74% at year-end 2015. Energy, Commodities & Transportation Clients (ECT) ECT portfolio composition Governance 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 TransporTotal ECT TransportaTotal ECT (in billions) Energy Commodities tation clients Energy Commodities tion clients On-balance sheet exposure loans and receivables customers 6.0 14.5 10.2 30.8 4.7 11.1 9.3 25.0 Annual Financial Statements Guarantees and letters of credit 0.9 7.2 0.2 8.4 0.7 5.5 0.2 6.3 Subtotal 6.9 21.8 10.4 39.1 5.3 16.5 9.5 31.4 Undrawn committed credit facilities 2.8 2.5 1.1 6.5 2.3 2.4 1.9 6.7 Total 9.8 24.3 11.5 45.6 7.6 19.0 11.4 38.0 RWA (REA) (in billions) 14.4 12.2 RWA (REA) (in %) 21% 58% 21% 100% 19% 59% 22% 100% Exposure at Default (in billions) 39.1 32.0 Exposure at Default (in %) 19% 53% 28% 100% Other 18% 51% 31% 100% ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 159 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction ABN AMRO provides financial solutions and support On-balance sheet exposure to clients across the entire value chain of the Energy, The ECT Clients total loan portfolio amounted to Strategy Commodities & Transportation (ECT) industry. ECT Clients EUR 30.8 billion in on-balance sheet exposure at finances and serves corporate clients that are internationally 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 25.0 billion). active in Energy (upstream, offshore, midstream, floating The on-balance sheet exposure increased by 23.0% over production (FPSO/FSO) and corporate lending), 2016 driven by growth in all three ECT segments. Commodities (energy, agricultural and metals) and Transportation (ocean-going vessels and containers). Growth in 2016, especially over the fourth quarter, was Business supported by an increase in oil prices, leading to higher ECT Clients operates in cyclical sectors. This cyclicality utilisation of credit lines for Commodities Clients, and the is reflected in our lending policies, financing structures, strengthening of the US dollar. Including these effects, the advance rates and risk management. As some clients ECT Clients on-balance portfolio grew by EUR 5.8 billion in the ECT sectors currently face challenging market in 2016. Oil prices increased by 50% in 2016. This explains circumstances, such as low oil prices and weak dry bulk EUR 2.6 billion of the year’s growth. The EUR-USD exchange Risk, funding & capital and container markets, they are continuously subject to rate was volatile over the year. The US dollar appreciated stringent credit monitoring and close risk management by 3.2% against the euro over 2016. FX effects accounted attention. In addition, ABN AMRO periodically performs for a growth of EUR 0.8 billion over 2016. Excluding oil sensitivity analyses and stress testing exercises to gain prices and FX effects, the ECT Clients portfolio grew by insight into the credit performance under different price EUR 2.4 billion in 2016. scenarios, economic scenarios and risk measures. Commodities Clients remained the largest sector of ECT The vast majority of the ECT Clients loan book is US-dollar Clients, accounting for EUR 14.5 billion of the ECT Clients denominated. ECT Clients provides financing, generally on balance sheet exposure, up 31%from EUR 11.1 billion Leadership secured by either commodities for which liquid markets at 31 December 2015. Loans (on-balance) to Transportation exist, first-priority ship mortgages or pledged contracted Clients accounted for EUR 10.2 billion at 31 December 2016 project cash flows. Conservative advance rates are applied (31 December 2015: EUR 9.3 billion). Energy Clients’ share for secured lending, taking into account through-the-cycle in the on-balance sheet exposure was EUR 6.0 billion at asset values. In addition, ECT Clients provides unsecured 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 4.7 billion). balance sheet financing to investment grade rated Governance counterparties in the ECT industry. Off-balance-sheet exposure The off-balance-sheet exposure, consisting mainly of Prices for most commodities rose substantially over 2016. short-term letters of credit secured by commodities, At the same time, price levels for a number of major guarantees and availability under committed credit lines, commodities are still substantially below the historical increased by 14.2%, arriving at EUR 14.9 billion at 5-year average and investments are only gradually 31 December 2016, including EUR 9.7 billion in Annual Financial Statements recovering. Moreover, circumstances in a number of Commodities Clients, EUR 3.7 billion in Energy Clients shipping markets and offshore services remain challenging and EUR 1.3 billion in Transportation Clients. given structural overcapacity and decreased demand. Impairment charges Despite these adverse market conditions, ECT Clients Due to challenging markets in 2016, ECT Clients’ impairment pursues its controlled growth strategy. Portfolio growth charges for the full year amounted to EUR 209 million is driven by new client acquisitions and broadening and (2015: EUR 128 million), with Energy accounting for deepening of existing client relations in selectively chosen EUR 104 million, Commodities for EUR 46 million and markets. ECT Clients has also expanded its scope to Transportation for EUR 59 million. adjacent business sectors, such as utilities, renewables Other and natural resources. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 160 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Oil price risk on ECT Clients exposure The breakdown below shows the composition of our direct and indirect oil and gas-related exposure. Strategy Trade related exposure; majority is short-term and a substantial Trade Finance part is self-liquidating trade finance, generally for major Commodities trading companies Energy Clients Facilities are mostly secured and either pre-sold or price hedged, Business not exposing the bank to oil price risk Floating Production Storage & Offloading vessels are developed Roughly 34% Floating Production for exploitation of oil and gas fields of ECT Clients, Storage & Offloading Not directly Financing structures rely on long term contracts with investment in which Energy Clients exposed to grade major oil companies Risk, funding & capital Commodities oil price risk Energy is the Corporate Lending Corporate Loans in oil & gas sector: predominantly loans largest part Energy Clients to investment grade integrated oil companies E.g. pipelines, tank farms, LNG terminals, etc. Midstream These assets typically generate revenues from medium Energy Clients to long-term tariff based contracts, not directly affected Energy Clients portfolio of EUR 6.9bn Leadership by oil price movements Exposed to Offshore Drilling Loans to finance drilling rigs oil price risk. Companies Generally backed by 3-7 year charter contracts and In part Energy Clients corporate guaranteed Roughly 4.5% mitigated by Governance of ECT Clients management, Other Offshore Diversified portfolio of companies active in pipe laying, technology, Companies heavy lifting, subsea services, wind park installation, etc. low costs and Energy Clients Corporate guaranteed contracts Financing based on borrower’s oil & gas assets. Loans secured Exposure to oil price risk. Annual Financial Statements by proven developed reserves of oil & gas. Includes smaller Upstream (Reserve independent oil & gas producers Roughly 3.5% Risk mitigants Base Lending) Majority of clients are active in both oil and gas. Loans are of ECT Clients may include Energy Clients protection, typically senior secured and have loss absorbing capital structures in place (junior debt, second lien, equity) i.e. low advance rates and loss Total Oil & Gas exposure, of on-balance sheet exposure + Total Oil & Gas Roughly 42% absorbing issued LCs and Guarantees, has grown in line with the overall related exposures of ECT Clients 2 capital growth in ECT Clients’ portfolio since the beginning of 2015 structures Other 1 The allocation of clients into Energy Clients sub-segment has been based on management views for managerial purposes. Clients can have activities that could be mapped in other sectors. 2 42% of the subtotal of ECT clients (EUR 39.1 billion). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 161 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction ECT Clients is exposed to the oil and gas market, mainly Real estate industry sector through Energy/Clients and Commodity clients active in The EAD of ABN AMRO’s real estate financing as shown Strategy energy markets. Market circumstances were challenging in in the industry concentration table, according to the ICB 2016 for companies operating in oil and gas-related sectors. Industry code real estate, amounted to EUR 14.5 billion We apply close risk monitoring to our clients in these at year-end 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 13.2 billion). markets as well as frequent price sensitivity analysis to assess the potential impact of oil price fluctuations. Exposures to social housing corporations are included in this real estate exposure for an amount of EUR 2.8 billion, Real estate Business including EUR 1.7 billion guaranteed by the Waarborgfonds Commercial real estate vs. industry Sociale Woningbouw (WSW, a state agency). The Dutch commercial real estate market showed further WSW provides guarantees to lenders granting loans signs of improvement in 2016, due mainly to high demand to housing associations for social housing projects from investors. This demand resulted in a total investment and other properties with a social or public function. volume of EUR 12.8 billion in Dutch commercial real Risk, funding & capital estate in 2016. This is an increase in volume compared The impaired exposure in the sector real estate with 2015 (EUR 11.6 billion) and even exceeded the former amounted to EUR 606 million at 31 December 2016 record year of 2007 (EUR 12.0 billion). The increase was (31 December 2015: EUR 852 million). Specific loan due largely to several large deals that have been closed, impairment charges amounted to a release of mainly in the fourth quarter of 2016. Investor demand is EUR 37 million in 2016 compared with an addition of increasing for both prime as well as non-prime offices, EUR 13 million in 2015. The coverage ratio was 33% driven mainly by the current low interest rate environment. at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: 38%). The total investment volume in offices in 2016 was EUR 5.5 billion (2015: EUR 3.8 billion). Structural vacancy ABN AMRO Commercial Real Estate Leadership in the office market is gradually being absorbed, due The commercial real estate portfolio amounted to to the large number of transformations to hotels and EUR 9.4 billion EaD at year-end 2016, and is divided residential properties. The total vacancy rate decreased over the following asset types. by 2.0% y-o-y (12.0% year-end 2016 and 14.0% year-end 2015). Asset type (in %) Governance The retail segment also showed signs of improvement 18.1 in 2016. After a decline in Q1, consumer confidence recovered in Q2 – Q4 to its highest level in nine-and-a-half 30.1 years. This optimism was translated into rising retail sales, which led to a decrease in the level of vacancy rates. 14.1 2016 EAD Investment activity in logistical real estate remained EUR 9.4bn Annual Financial Statements robust in 2016, with a total volume of EUR 1.4 billion, equalling the figure for 2015. The Dutch housing market continued its remarkably strong recovery in 2016, mainly 13.2 due to economic growth, low mortgage interest rates and 24.5 the highest level of confidence since 2004. House prices Residential Retail Industrial Office Other1 grew by 5.1% in 2016. Investments in the residential 1 Other asset types includes mixed objects, hotels & horeca facilities and parking real estate. segment increased from EUR 2.8 billion in 2015 to EUR 3.2 billion in 2016. ABN AMRO Commercial Real Estate portfolio has relatively low Loan-to-Values (2016: 53.8%). Loans are largely based Other on Dutch property. The loan portfolio consists mainly of ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 162 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction investment loans which are well diversified across Managing risks different asset types. Real estate loans may include ABN AMRO Clearing plays an important facilitating and Strategy additional collateral, e.g. parent company guarantees. processing role in the global capital markets, creating efficiency in the value chains of everyday products and Commercial real estate vs. industry real estate making the financial system more efficient, transparent Commercial real estate (CRE) is defined as ‘land or and robust. Sound risk management is a cornerstone property owned by project developers or investors with of ABN AMRO Clearing’s business model. ABN AMRO the purpose to develop, to trade or to rent the land or Clearing Bank’s risk appetite is set with a view to Business property’. The credit quality of the counterparty depends maintaining a moderate risk profile, in line with ABN AMRO’s on the cash flows generated by the real estate. corporate strategy. It takes into account all the risk types to which the bank is exposed in its daily operations, Although largely overlapping, the real estate Industry including credit, market, operational, liquidity and business Classification Benchmark (ICB) categorisation is not risk. Accurate identification and control of these risks identical to that for commercial real estate. The main constitutes an important part of ABN AMRO Clearing’s Risk, funding & capital differences between real estate and CRE are: day-to-day operations. To cover the different time zones, local risk centres have been put in place, supported and ÅÅ Social housing corporations are not included in CRE; governed by the various risk functions at headquarters. ÅÅ Corporate unsecured real estate financing is not The risk appetite statement sets limits on its overall included in CRE; risk-taking capacity across these risk types. A designated ÅÅ CRE Exposures < EUR 500,000 are excluded; committee, the Clearing Business Risk Committee, ÅÅ Private individual exposures are not included in real estate. monitors the risk appetite by benchmarking actual and expected risk profiles every month, so that corrective CRE is mainly originated by the Corporate Banking actions can be defined if and when necessary. Leadership business and, to a lesser extent, Retail Banking and Private Banking. ABN AMRO Clearing is part of ABN AMRO’s risk governance. As such, ABN AMRO Clearing works ABN AMRO Clearing according to the three lines of defence model (3LoD), ABN AMRO Clearing provides 24-hour/5-day execution, the risk decision framework and the product approval clearing and settlement services across all assets classes. process. The Clearing Business Risk Committee supports Governance Coverage is global, with connections to over 150 liquidity the governance of the three lines of defence. In this centres across Europe, the US, Brazil and Asia Pacific. committee all three lines discuss the design, existence ABN AMRO Clearing’s clients receive access to the market and operating effectiveness of the control framework and infrastructure as well as securities lending, settlement, individual risks. Over the last years ABN AMRO Clearing custody and asset servicing. With this offering, the bank has suffered very little operational or credit losses. In targets three types of client groups: Professional Trading 2016, ABN AMRO Clearing did not suffer any credit losses Annual Financial Statements Groups (market makers), Prime Clients (hedge funds) and on the total outstanding credit limits of EUR 35 billion Corporate Hedgers (corporates). ABN AMRO Clearing has (2015: EUR 30 billion). market shares of 25% or higher on many of the major derivatives exchanges on which it operates, resulting in a global top three position based on turnover and market share. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 163 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Credit and market risk Liquidity risk Local risk management employees monitor client activity Liquidity risk is the risk that a financial institution will not Strategy on a daily and intraday basis to ensure that all clients stay meet its financial obligations on time. It is the risk of within the agreed market and credit risk parameters. having insufficient funds to meet margin calls with brokers ABN AMRO Clearing is not involved in any propriety or clearing houses or failing to settle other transaction trading activities and hence does not run direct market types within agreed timeframes. In conjunction with risk. It may encounter indirect market risk as a result of ABN AMRO Bank, ABN AMRO Clearing continuously its clearing and financing activities: evaluates its liquidity needs on a global level and Business 1. As a third-party clearing member, ABN AMRO Clearing implements mitigating actions to avoid any temporary explicitly guarantees the fulfilment of obligations liquidity shortfall. towards clearing houses and other third parties arising from clients’ transactions. In the event of a client defaulting, it has the legal obligation to settle all of the client’s positions with the relevant clearing houses, Risk, funding & capital possibly at a loss. 2. ABN AMRO Clearing provides clients with credit lines to leverage business opportunities and to enable them to hedge their derivatives inventory with shares and bonds. To manage the above, all client exposures are fully collateralised. Leadership Operational and business risk ABN AMRO Clearing is exposed to operational risk arising from business processes and the IT infrastructure. As the bank is a highly IT-intensive organisation, business continuity management, business information security and IT security are key topics on the operational risk agenda. A full Governance operational risk control framework is implemented in order to identify, measure, manage and monitor operational and regulatory risks. Dedicated staff members continuously monitor the bank’s operational risk profile. Staff proactively perform risk assessments, monitor controls, keep track of up-to-date operating policies and procedures, and ensure Annual Financial Statements proper follow-up of the implementation of audit points. They also perform disaster recovery rehearsals to test business continuity and follow up on operational losses/ near misses. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 164 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Market risk Introduction Market risk ABN AMRO is exposed to market risk in its trading book Strategy and banking book. The following table presents the market risk factors to which the different assets and liabilities of the balance sheet are sensitive. Total market risk exposure Business Market risk exposure traded and non-traded risk s 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Carrying Carrying amount Market risk measure amount Market risk measure Risk, funding & capital Non-traded Non-traded (in millions) Traded risk risk Traded risk risk Assets subject to market risk Cash and balances at central banks 21,861 21,861 26,195 26,195 Financial assets held for trading 1,607 1,607 1,706 1,706 Derivatives 14,384 11,475 2,909 19,138 14,735 4,403 Financial investments 45,497 45,497 40,542 40,542 Securities financing 17,589 17,589 20,062 20,062 Loans and receivables banks 13,485 13,485 15,680 15,680 Leadership Loans and receivables customers 267,679 267,679 276,375 276,375 Other assets 12,380 12,380 7,676 7,676 Total assets 394,482 13,082 381,400 407,373 16,440 390,933 Liabilities subject to market risk Financial liabilities held for trading 791 791 459 459 Derivatives 14,526 9,557 4,970 22,425 12,958 9,466 Governance Securities financing 11,625 11,625 11,372 11,372 Due to banks 13,419 13,419 14,630 14,630 Due to customers 228,758 228,758 247,353 247,353 Issued debt 81,278 81,278 76,207 76,207 Subordinated liabilities 11,171 11,171 9,708 9,708 Other liabilities 13,976 13,976 7,635 7,635 Total liabilities 375,544 10,347 365,197 389,789 13,418 376,371 Annual Financial Statements Equity 18,937 18,937 17,584 17,584 Total liabilities and equity 394,482 10,347 384,134 407,373 13,418 393,956 1 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Activities in the trading book are sensitive to multiple risk appetite. Most assets and liabilities in the banking book factors. As stated in the paragraphs on market risk in the are to a large extent sensitive to interest rate risk. Some trading book, the overall sensitivity to these risk factors of the assets and liabilities are also sensitive to FX risk; Other is carefully managed to remain within the bank’s risk however, ABN AMRO minimises this risk through hedging. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 165 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Market risk Introduction Market risk in the banking book combination of portfolio (macro) hedges and specific asset Market risk in the banking book is the risk that the bank’s or liability (micro) hedges to swap fixed interest rates to Strategy value or earnings decline because of unfavourable market a floating interest rate position. The resulting interest rate movements. The market risk of the banking book consists position, after application of interest rate hedges, is in line predominantly of interest rate risk. Interest rate risk arises with the bank’s strategy and risk appetite. from holding loans with interest rate maturities that are different from the interest rate maturities of the savings Market risk exposure and funding of the bank. The table below shows the interest rate risk metrics Business at year-end 2016 and 2015. The assets have on average a longer behavioural maturity than the liabilities, especially savings. ABN AMRO uses a Interest rate risk metrics Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 NII-at-risk (in %) -0.4 -1.3 Duration of equity (in years) 4.1 3.6 NII-at-Risk is defined as the worst outcome of two scenarios: VaR figures based on a diversified portfolio approach a gradual increase in interest rates and a gradual decline in will be lower compared with the figures when using interest rates by 200bps, both over a 1-year period. In the undiversified VaR. Undiversified VaR means that the Leadership falling rate scenario, a floor of -100bps on market rates is VaR figures computed for the different risk factors are applied, as well as a floor of 0bps on retail deposits. summed up without taking into account any offset across risk factors and therefore negates the potential The NII-at-Risk in 2016 improved to -0.4% (approximately for risk reduction. EUR -24 million) and reflects a reduction of NII in the falling rates scenario. During 2016 ABN AMRO implemented The graph below shows the total VaR (‘VaR diversified’) Governance a number of refinements to the NII-at-Risk methodology. and aggregation of the stand-alone risk factors As part of these refinements we also lowered the floor (‘VaR undiversified’). applied to market rates from to -100bps in order to present a more prudent outcome in the falling rates VaR diversified and undiversified EDTF 23 (in millions) scenario. In a scenario reflecting a rise in interest rates NII would increase by 0.6% (approximately EUR 32 million). 15 Annual Financial Statements 12 Please note that whereas in the previous year we reported NII-at-Risk as a positive number if this meant a loss in NII, in 9 the current year we report a loss in NII as a negative number. 6 Market risk in the trading book 3 Market risk exposure d ABN AMRO applies a diversified portfolio VaR approach. Jan 2016 Apr 2016 Jul 2016 Oct 2016 Dec 2016 This approach takes into account the fact that returns across risk factors may offset one another to a certain VaR diversified VaR undiversified Other extent and consequently reduce risk. As long as those returns are not perfectly correlated to one another, ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 166 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Market risk Introduction Internal aggregated diversified and undiversified VaR for all trading positions bd 2016 2015 Strategy (in millions) Diversified Undiversified Diversified Undiversified VaR at last trading day of period 7.2 8.4 3.0 3.4 Highest VaR 10.8 14.0 12.7 14.8 Lowest VaR 1.9 3.0 1.1 2.1 Average VaR 5.2 6.9 4.9 6.3 During 2016, the average diversified 1-day VaR at a introduced quantitative easing in Q1 2015, which was Business 99% confidence level increased by EUR 0.3 million to accentuated following the Brexit referendum in June 2016. EUR 5.2 million, compared with EUR 4.9 million in 2015. Although the VaR methodology was enhanced to better The highest VaR in 2016 was EUR 10.8 million, compared cope with low and negative interest rates, the valuation with EUR 12.7 million in 2015. Average undiversified VaR, model for interest rate derivatives did not perform well Risk, funding & capital being the sum of VaR across the FX, Equity, Interest Rates with negative interest rates and generated overstated VaR and Commodity risk factors, decreased from EUR 14.8 numbers. The valuation models for interest rates options million in 2015 to EUR 14.0 million in 2016. While the risk were enhanced in Q4 2016 and are pending approval from profile remained stable and moderate, this increase was the regulator to be used for VaR calculation. driven by a low interest rate environment since the ECB Regulatory capital market risk Capital requirement and risk exposure amount Leadership 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions) Capital requirement RWA (REA) Capital requirement RWA (REA) Position risk in traded debt instruments (SA) 5 128 1,600 Position risk in equities (SA) 2 23 Commodity risk (SA) 7 88 Add-on (SA) 320 4,000 Governance Internal model approach 325 4,067 Total 326 4,072 457 5,710 The above table shows the composition of ABN AMRO’s In 2016, RWA (REA) for market risk dropped significantly to trading books, broken down by risk factor and required EUR 4.1 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: regulatory capital/risk amount. EUR 5.7 billion). This decline was mainly the result of Annual Financial Statements the use of the Internal Model Approach (IMA) as from RWA (REA) flow statement market risk EDTF 16 1 January 2016. (in millions) 7,000 371 -2,009 6,000 5,710 5,000 4,072 4,000 3,000 Other 31 December Business Other 31 December 2015 volume 2016 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 167 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Operational risk Introduction Operational risk Operational risk by risk type and adjust the bank’s defences where necessary. Strategy The volume of phishing, malware and card theft attacks Operational losses by event category 1 remained stable in 2016 compared with 2015. Distribution (% of total loss amount) 100 We continued to strengthen our security controls, Business 81 78 resulting in very low losses despite the persistent volume 80 of attacks. Operational losses as a result of external fraud 60 through digital client channels decreased in 2016 compared with 2015. Compared with 2012 (baseline: 100), the level of 40 fraud losses was 4 in 2016 (2014 and 2015: 7). Dutch banks 20 13 work together through the Dutch Banking Association and 10 7 Risk, funding & capital 8 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 the Dutch Payments Association to safeguard Dutch society’s Clients, External Execution, TechnoDisaster Internal Employee shared interest in secure payments. Dutch banks have products fraud delivery, logy and and fraud practices and process infrapublic and agreed not to compete in matters of security. Individual business managestructure safety workplace banks do not report figures on losses due to fraud related practices ment failures safety to internet banking, skimming and debit cards; these 2015 2016 figures are reported jointly. 1 Operational losses are presented excluding provisioned claims. Business continuity A considerable amount of the bank’s operational losses Business continuity mitigation controls are in place, such Leadership were related to settled claims. In adherence with the as crisis management, business relocation plans and IT advice of the committee of independent experts established disaster recovery plans, to address incidents and crises by the Dutch Minister of Finance on the reassessment of threatening the continuity of critical business processes. SME interest rate derivatives, the bank is in the process As in previous years, in 2016 ABN AMRO’s crisis of settling claims related to these derivatives. The settled management organisation proved to be stable and able claims are classified as operational losses in the event to respond to incidents and to assure recovery of these Governance category Clients, Products and Business Practices. business processes within an acceptable timeframe. Therefore, this is the category with the largest loss amount. Apart from settlement of claims, the largest loss Stability of digital services amount is in the category Execution, Delivery and Process Availability of the bank’s internet banking services during Management. Excluding the settlement of claims, the peak hours was 99.87% on average in 2016. operational losses of the bank were limited in 2016 Annual Financial Statements compared with 2015. ABN AMRO provisioned for litigation of historical claims against the bank. These claims are Regulatory capital v accounted for in the balance sheet under provisions At the end of 2016, ABN AMRO received permission from (more information on provisions is included in note 29 the ECB to apply the Basel II Advanced Measurement to the Annual Financial Statements). Approach. As of Q1 2017, we will use our internal AMA model for calculating regulatory capital. The permission Cybercrime to apply the most advanced calculation method indicates ABN AMRO is faced with the constant threat of cybercrime the ECB’s satisfaction with the way we manage by organised crime groups, activists and/or ill-intentioned operational risks. employees. We therefore continuously monitor this threat Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 168 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Operational risk Introduction The bank’s own funds for operational risks in 2016 were RWA (REA) flow statement operational risk EDTF 16 still calculated based on the Standardised Approach (TSA). (in millions) Strategy Under the TSA, gross income figures are mapped to a set 20,000 of prescribed Basel II business lines, such as Retail Banking, 19,000 Payments and Trading & Sales. Depending on the business line, a percentage (predefined by the directives) is applied 18,000 for calculating capital for that business line. The TSA capital 776 17,003 17,000 for the bank is the sum of the TSA capital for each 16,227 Business business line. 16,000 31 December Other 31 December 2015 2016 RWA (REA) for operational risk increased by EUR 0.8 billion Risk, funding & capital compared with year-end 2015, arriving at EUR 17.0 billion at 31 December 2016, as a result of the annual revision of calculations. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 169 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Liquidity risk Introduction Liquidity risk Liquidity risk management Strategy Liquidity risk indicators 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Survival period (moderate stress) > 12 months >12 months Loan-to-Deposit ratio (in %) 112.7% Business 108.6% Available liquidity buffer (in billions) 78.9 82.8 Basel III LCR ratio >100% >100% NSFR ratio >100% >100% Risk, funding & capital The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Net Stable The survival period reflects the period that the bank’s Funding Ratio (NSFR) both remained above 100% during liquidity position is expected to remain positive in an 2016. This is in line with the bank’s targeted early internally developed (moderate) stress scenario in which compliance with future regulatory requirements. wholesale funding markets deteriorate and retail and commercial clients withdraw a proportion of their deposits. The survival period was consistently >12 months during 2016. Loan-to-Deposit ratio bi (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Leadership Loans and receivables customers 267,679 276,375 Deductions Selected current accounts related to ABN AMRO Clearing Bank 6,003 4,799 Governance Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting 4,794 4,849 Total deductions -10,797 -9,648 Adjusted Loans and receivables customers 1 256,881 266,727 Due to customers1 228,758 247,353 Debt certificates issued through Groenbank BV 52 55 Annual Financial Statements Deductions Deposits from Dutch State Treasury Agency (DSTA) -800 -1,750 Adjusted Due to customers1 228,009 245,658 Loan-to-Deposit ratio (LtD) 112.7% 108.6% 1 In 2016 the bank concluded that partial derecognition should be applied for certain savings mortgages. The adjustment of the carrying amounts before balance sheet netting is EUR 6.3 billion negative per 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 6.4 billion negative). This adjustment does not impact the reported carrying amounts after balance sheet netting. The impact of the netting adjustment is also included. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 170 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Liquidity risk Introduction The accounting policies for notional cash pooling balances EUR 249.7 billion). Adjusted due to customers decreased to and bank saving mortgages were modified in 2016. EUR 224.5 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: Strategy Applying these changes retrospectively has led to an EUR 228.6 billion). increase of EUR 3.5 billion in loans and receivables customers and due to customers for 31 December 2016 The LtD ratio increased to 113% at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 17.1 billion). (31 December 2015: 109%). This increase was driven mainly by Private Banking Asia being classified as held Net of notional cash pooling and bank savings mortgages, for sale (other assets/liabilities) and loan growth in Business adjusted loans and receivables customers increased to Corporate Banking. EUR 253.4 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: Liquidity buffer composition bi Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Liquidity Liquidity buffer LCR eligible buffer LCR eligible (in billions, liquidity value) Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2 Cash & Central Bank deposits1 21.5 21.5 24.4 24.4 Government bonds 33.5 33.9 0.6 26.0 26.9 Covered bonds 2.2 1.7 0.4 1.4 1.3 RMBS retained 11.5 24.0 Third party RMBS 1.5 1.3 0.7 0.6 Leadership Other 8.8 7.6 1.7 6.3 2.5 0.8 Total 78.9 64.6 3.9 82.8 53.8 2.7 1 The mandatory cash reserve with the central bank has been deducted from the cash and central bank deposits in the liquidity buffer. The liquidity buffer consists largely of cash and deposits The liquidity buffer decreased by EUR 3.9 billion to at central banks, government bonds and retained RMBS. EUR 78.9 billion at 31 December 2016 compared with Governance Most of the securities in the liquidity buffer, with the EUR 82.8 billion at 31 December 2015. This was driven exception of retained RMBS, qualify for the LCR. mainly by a decrease in retained RMBS due to further Furthermore, both the liquidity buffer and the LCR buffer optimisation of our liquidity position. Part of our cash face haircuts based on their market value. These haircuts position has been converted into financial investments, are used to determine the liquidity value. Haircuts may explaining the decrease in cash and increase in financial differ between the two buffers as the internal assessment investments. In addition, government bonds increased Annual Financial Statements of the liquidity buffer deviates from Basel III regulations. due partly to the inclusion of off-balance sheet positions This explains the differences between the liquidity values. consisting of LCR eligible government bonds. Government bonds, for example, will be subject to a higher internal haircut than the haircut based on Basel III regulations. As a result, the value of government bonds for the liquidity buffer is lower than the value that qualifies for the LCR. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 171 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Liquidity risk Introduction Liquidity buffer currency diversification bi (in billions, liquidity value) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 EUR 71.3 77.9 Strategy USD 5.7 2.4 GBP 0.3 0.3 Other 1.7 2.2 Total 78.9 82.8 The table above shows the breakdown per currency of alignment in scope of the liquidity buffer and the LCR Business the liquidity buffer. The currency composition of our buffer buffer. Local USD investments qualifying for the the LCR reflects the composition of our balance sheet. This allows are now also included in the liquidity buffer. for optimal liquidity risk management. The USD position increased by USD 3.3 billion to USD 5.7 billion at The monthly averages of the liquidity buffer are shown Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2016. This increase was driven by further in the table below: Liquidity buffer composition monthly average b (in billions, liquidity value) 2016 2015 Cash & Central Bank deposits 19.3 11.1 Government bonds 31.2 26.8 Covered bonds 1.8 1.7 Leadership RMBS retained 21.1 29.8 Third party RMBS 1.5 0.8 Other 8.1 7.0 Total 82.9 77.2 Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 172 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction Funding Liability and equity breakdown ba Strategy Client deposits are our main source of funding, complemented by a well-diversified book of wholesale funding. The graph below shows the liability and equity breakdown for the full balance sheet. Liability and equity breakdown Audited EDTF 21 Business (in billions) 247.2 250 228.8 200 Risk, funding & capital 150 100 85.9 92.4 50 30.7 29.3 14.6 13.4 11.4 11.6 17.6 18.9 Client deposits1 Issued debt & Due to banks Securities financing Equity Other Subordinated liabilities 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 Leadership 1 The impact of the netting adjustments is included. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. The graph below shows the breakdown of clients deposits by segment.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ Breakdown of client deposits Audited EDTF 21 Governance (in billions) 100.2 102.8 100 80 78.2 66.5 61.8 62.4 60 Annual Financial Statements 40 20 2.3 1.8 Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Group Functions deposits1 deposits deposits2 deposits 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 1 The impact of bank savings mortgages is included. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 The impact of the offsetting changes on notional cash pooling is included. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 173 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction As previously explained, the decrease in Private Banking Available funding instruments ba deposits was driven by the private banking activities in A key goal of the funding strategy is to diversify funding Strategy Asia and the Middle East being classified as held for sale sources. The available funding programmes allow us to (other liabilities) in December 2016. The decrease in client issue various instruments in different currencies and deposits at Corporate Banking was mainly due to the change markets. This enables us to diversify our investor base. in accounting policies for notional cash pooling balances. A description of capital and funding instruments issued by ABN AMRO is provided on our website, The increase in issued debt is explained later in abnamro.com/en/investor-relations. We continuously Business this chapter. assess our wholesale funding base in order to determine the optimal use of funding sources. Wholesale funding breaks down into the following categories: Overview of funding types ba (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Risk, funding & capital Euro Commercial Paper 2,501 1,326 London Certificates of Deposit 8,843 3,744 French Certificats de Dépôt 651 164 US Commercial Paper 4,710 4,585 Total Commercial Paper/Certificates of Deposit 16,705 9,820 Senior unsecured (medium-term notes) 32,815 37,404 Covered bonds 29,355 25,956 Securitisations 2,350 2,968 Leadership Saving certificates 52 59 Total issued debt 81,278 76,207 Subordinated liabilities 11,171 9,708 Total wholesale funding 92,450 85,915 Other long-term funding1 5,843 6,813 Total funding instruments 98,292 Governance 2 92,728 of which issued debt matures within one year 27,754 19,607 1 Includes long-term repo (recorded in Securities financing), TLTRO funding (recorded in Due to banks) and funding with the Dutch State as counterparty (recorded in Due to customers). 2 Includes FX effects, fair value adjustments and interest movements. Total wholesale funding (issued debt and subordinated liquidity repricing risk resulting from mortgages with liabilities) increased to EUR 92.5 billion at 31 December 2016 long-term fixed interest rate periods. The average maturity Annual Financial Statements (31 December 2015: EUR 85.9 billion). The rise was due of the covered bonds issued in 2016 is 13 years. mainly to an increase in commercial paper and certificates Furthermore, we voluntarily repaid TLTRO I and of deposit, within our targeted bandwidth for short-term participated in TLTRO II, both for EUR 4.0 billion. funding, allowing us to steer our liquidity ratios more efficiently. The covered bonds issued are in line with The following graph shows the development of wholesale the growing volume of mortgages with long-term fixed funding types relative to the balance sheet total at interest rate periods. Long-term covered bonds mitigate 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 174 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction Funding vs balance sheet total Audited EDTF 21 (as % of total assets) Short-term vs total Long-term vs total assets Strategy assets 4.2% at 20.7% at 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 10 9.2 8.3 8 7.4 6.4 6 4.2 4 Business 2.8 2.4 2.4 2 1.7 1.5 0.7 0.6 CP/CD Securitisations Covered Senior Subordinated Other long-term bonds Unsecured liabilities funding 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 Risk, funding & capital Long-term funding components ba on notional values and therefore differs from the The following graph shows an overview of the information above due to discrepancies between outstanding long-term funding at 31 December 2016 and notional value and issue price and fair value hedge 31 December 2015. The information presented is based accounting adjustments​​​​​​​. Long-term funding components Leadership Audited EDTF 21 (in %) 8 3 9 4 14 12 34 29 31 December 31 December Governance 2016 2015 77.1bn 78.5bn 41 46 Annual Financial Statements Securitisations Senior Unsecured Other long-term funding Covered bonds Subordinated liabilities Funding issuance in 2016 ba EUR 3.9 billion of covered bonds, EUR 2.4 billion of Tier 2 ABN AMRO executed a successful funding strategy capital instruments, EUR 3.7 billion of senior unsecured in 2016, reflected in issuance in different currencies and funding, and EUR 4.0 billion TLTRO II. Senior unsecured a presence in almost all markets. Total long-term funding funding includes the issuance of an EUR 0.5 billion raised in 2016 amounted to EUR 14.0 billion. This includes green bond. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 175 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction Long-term funding raised in 2015 and 2016 Audited EDTF 21 (notional amounts at issuance, in billions) Strategy 10 8 6 5.0 5.1 4.5 4.6 4 1.5 1.6 3.7 1.3 2.9 0.9 4.0 1.8 1.5 2.1 0.5 Business 2 3.3 2.6 1.8 1.4 0.7 0.4 0.2 1.6 0.4 2.3 0.7 0.2 Q1 2015 Q2 2015 Q3 2015 Q4 2015 Q1 2016 Q2 2016 Q3 2016 Q4 2016 Covered bonds Senior Unsecured Subordinated liabilities Other long-term funding1 1 Other long-term funding includes TLTRO II, long-term repos and funding with the Dutch State as counterparty. Risk, funding & capital Long-term funding in non-euro currencies rose to 28% Maturity calendar ba of total outstanding long-term funding compared with We enhanced the maturity profile of our long-term 27% at 31 December 2015. In 2016, the bank raised 77% wholesale funding predominantly by spreading out of long-term funding in EUR and the remainder in USD, redemptions of funding instruments over time. ABN AMRO GBP, JPY, AUD, CHF, SGD and SEK. Diversification of focuses continuously on optimising its wholesale maturity the outstanding long-term funding in non-euro currencies profile and on maintaining its diverse funding base. is shown in the following graph. NOG GEEN INPUT IN TAB: Grafic currency The average maturity of newly issued funding increased Leadership Non-euro currency diversification to 8.4 years (up from 7.5 years in 2015), while the average of total outstanding long-term funding Audited EDTF 21 maturity of outstanding long-term funding increased to (in billions) 4.7 years at year-end 2016 (up from 4.6 years at year-end 25 2015). This was caused mainly by the issuance of long21.1 21.3 term covered bonds, in line with the growing volume 20 of mortgages with long-term fixed interest rate periods. Governance 5.0 5.6 15 1.8 1.7 2.6 2.2 The maturity calendar assumes redemption on the earliest 10 possible call date or the legal maturity date. Early redemption 5 11.7 11.8 of subordinated instruments is subject to the approval of . the regulators. However, this does not mean that the 2015 2016 instruments will be called at the earliest possible call date. Annual Financial Statements TLTRO II is recorded at a maturity of four years, but has USD CHF GBP Other a voluntary repayment option after two years. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 176 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction DATA UIT Q4-TAB Maturity calendar at 31 December 2016 Audited EDTF 21 (notional amounts, in billions) Strategy 15 14.0 1.0 13.1 12 2.2 4.1 9 8.8 7.5 8.0 0.2 7.4 1.6 0.3 7.6 0.6 6 5.5 1.6 6.5 0.3 4.7 4.8 4.2 3.6 1.5 3.3 Business 3 1.1 2.9 0.3 6.9 1.2 1.2 2.1 1.4 0.9 2.2 1.9 1.8 0.3 1.7 0.1 2.5 2.5 2.7 1.9 1.8 1.1 0.8 0.5 0.5 1.6 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 ≥ 2027 Securitisations Covered bonds Senior Unsecured Subordinated liabilities Other long-term funding1 1 Other long-term funding includes TLTRO II, long-term repos and funding with the Dutch State as counterparty. Risk, funding & capital Maturity calendar 31 December 2016 (notional amounts, in billions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 ≥ 2027 Total Senior unsecured 7.6 4.7 6.5 4.8 1.2 3.3 1.2 0.3 1.7 0.1 0.6 31.9 Covered bonds 2.2 1.9 1.8 2.5 2.5 2.7 1.9 1.8 0.5 1.6 6.9 26.4 Securitisations 1.1 0.8 0.5 2.4 Subordinated liabilities 2.2 1.6 1.5 1.6 1.1 1.4 0.9 0.3 10.6 Leadership Other long-term funding1 1.0 4.1 0.3 0.3 0.2 5.8 Total 14.0 7.4 8.8 13.1 5.5 7.5 4.2 2.1 3.6 2.9 8.0 77.1 1 Other long-term funding includes TLTRO II, long-term repos and funding with the Dutch State as counterparty. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 177 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Capital Capital structure b optimise its capital structure in anticipation of pending Strategy ABN AMRO’s solid capital position ensures that the bank regulatory requirements. The capital structure consists is compliant with the fully-loaded capital requirements of mainly of common equity and loss-absorbing capital to the Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV). The overall cover unexpected losses. The subordination of capital capital base increased over the year, primarily due to profit instruments provides further protection to senior creditors. Business accumulation and capital issuances. The bank strives to Regulatory capital structure bv (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Risk, funding & capital Total Equity EU IFRS 18,937 17,584 Cash flow hedge reserve 843 1,056 Dividend reserve -414 -414 Capital securities -993 -993 Other regulatory adjustments -598 -466 Common Equity Tier 1 17,775 16,768 Innovative hybrid capital instruments 700 Capital securities 993 993 Other regulatory adjustments -164 -234 Leadership Tier 1 capital 18,605 18,226 Subordinated liabilities Tier 2 7,150 4,938 Excess Tier 1 instrument recognised as Tier 2 capital 300 Other regulatory adjustments -118 -33 Total regulatory capital1 25,637 23,431 1 DNB requires Dutch banks to disclose the Basel I floor in accordance with CRR article 500. In 2016 the Basel I floor was calculated by multiplying Basel I RWA (REA) of EUR 198.4 billion Governance by 8% times 80% (31 December 2015: EUR 184.0 billion). After adjusting for IRB provision shortfall, this results in a minimum required amount of own funds of EUR 12.4 billion as per 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 11.6 billion). ABN AMRO comfortably meets this requirement. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 178 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Regulatory capital flow statement bq (in millions) 2016 2015 Common Equity Tier 1 capital Strategy Balance at 1 January 16,768 15,426 Addition of net profit attributable to shareholders 1,805 1,919 Reserved dividend -414 -414 Interim dividend paid -376 -350 Other, including regulatory adjustments -8 186 Business Balance at end of period 17,775 16,768 Additional Tier 1 capital Balance at 1 January 1,459 559 New issued Tier 1 eligible capital instruments 993 Redeemed Tier 1 eligible capital instruments -700 Other, including regulatory adjustments 71 -93 Risk, funding & capital Balance at end of period 829 1,459 Tier 1 capital 18,605 18,226 Tier 2 capital Balance at 1 January 5,205 5,663 New issued Tier 2 eligible capital instruments 2,508 2,859 Redeemed Tier 2 ineligible capital instruments -203 -759 Other, including regulatory adjustments -477 -2,559 Balance at end of period 7,032 5,205 Leadership Total regulatory capital 25,637 23,431 RWA (REA) b (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Governance Credit risk 83,140 86,063 of which standardised 6,319 7,110 of which advanced 76,821 78,953 Operational risk 17,003 16,227 of which standardised 17,003 16,227 of which advanced Annual Financial Statements Market risk 4,072 5,710 of which standardised 5 5,710 of which advanced 4,067 Total RWA (REA) 104,215 108,001 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 179 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Main developments in capital position q ABN AMRO’s capital position strengthened compared At 31 December 2016, the phase-in CRD IV Common to 31 December 2015, driven by profit accumulation, Strategy Equity Tier 1 (CET1), Tier 1 and total capital ratios were a decrease in RWA and Tier 2 issuances. 17.1%, 17.9% and 24.6% respectively. All capital ratios were well above regulatory minimum requirements and in The following chart shows the primary drivers of the line with the bank’s risk appetite and strategic ambitions. capital ratios in 2016. Business Developments impacting capital ratios in 2016 EDTF 11 (in %) 25 -0.8 0.9 1.8 24.6 1.7 -0.6 20 21.7 17.9 16.9 17.1 15 15.5 Risk, funding & capital 10 5 31 December Reported Dividend RWA AT 1 Tier 2 31 December 2015 net profit reserve (REA) changes instruments 2016 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio/Core Tier 1 ratio Tier 1 ratio Total capital ratio Leadership Developments impacting capital ratios in 2016 ABN AMRO is required in 2017 to meet a minimum CET1 q ratio of 9.0% on a consolidated basis, which includes a Common Equity Tier 1 capital 1.25% capital conservation buffer and a 1.5% systemic Common Equity Tier 1 capital increased in 2016 primarily risk buffer (SRB). ABN AMRO is comfortably above due to profit accumulation. Net reported profit attributable the 9.0% minimum, with phase-in CET1 at 17.1% at to the shareholders of ABN AMRO in 2016 amounted to 31 December 2016. The MDA trigger level for ABN AMRO Governance EUR 1,762 million. Net profit after dividend allocation is Bank N.V. is 9.0% of CET1 capital, to be increased by any included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, in accordance AT1 or Tier 2 capital shortfall. At the end of 2016 the AT1 with regulations and ABN AMRO’s dividend policy. shortfall was 0.7%, implying an MDA trigger level of 9.7% for 2017. Based on full phase-in of the systemic risk buffer (from 1.5% in 2017 to 3.0% in 2019) and the capital conservation buffer (from 1.25% in 2017 to 2.5% in 2019), Annual Financial Statements the fully-loaded MDA trigger level is expected to increase to 11.75% in 2019, assuming no AT1 or Tier 2 capital shortfall. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 180 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Additional Tier 1 Further information on share capital, ABN AMRO currently has a EUR 1.0 billion AT1 instrument dividend and capital instruments v Share capital Strategy outstanding, which was issued in September 2015. The AT1 instrument has triggers at the Group level (7% CET1), The share capital remained unchanged in 2016. At the sub-consolidated level (5.125% CET1) and the solo 31 December 2016, the authorised share capital amounted level (5.125% CET1). If the CET1 ratio breaks through to EUR 4,700 million distributed over 4,500 million class A the trigger level, the AT1 will be temporarily written down. ordinary shares and 200 million class B ordinary shares. Based on December 2016 figures, ABN AMRO is The class A and B ordinary shares both have a nominal Business comfortably above the trigger levels, with the Group value of EUR 1.00 each. level CET1 ratio at 17.1%, the sub-consolidated CET1 ratio at 17.1% and the solo CET1 ratio at 15.7%. Available At 31 December 2016, issued and paid-up capital amounted Distributable Items (ADI) totalled EUR 16.3 billion at to EUR 940 million and consisted of 940 million class A 31 December 2016. ordinary shares. Further information is provided in note 32 to the Annual Financial Statements. Risk, funding & capital Tier 2 capital The fully-loaded total capital ratio increased by Dividend 4.0 percentage points compared with 31 December 2015. ABN AMRO proposes a final cash dividend of Over 2016, profit accumulation, four T2 capital issuances EUR 414 million or EUR 0.44 per share. Together with the (EUR 1.0 billion 12-year callable, USD 0.3 billion 15-year interim cash dividend of EUR 376 million, this will bring bullet in Taiwan’s Formosa market, SGD 0.45 billion 10-year the total dividend for 2016 to EUR 790 million or EUR 0.84 callable instrument and a USD 1.0 billion 10-year bullet) and per share and the payout ratio to 45% of reported net a EUR 3.8 billion lower RWA level more than compensated earnings after deduction of AT1 coupon payments. In for the redemption of a GBP 150 million Tier 2 instrument 2015, ABN AMRO paid a 40% dividend of EUR 0.81 Leadership and a EUR 1.0 billion Tier 1 instrument (EUR 700 million per share, or EUR 764 million, of which EUR 350 million of which was eligible for Tier 1 and EUR 300 million was (EUR 0.37 per share) was interim dividend and eligible for Tier 2 capital at 31 December 2015). EUR 414 million (EUR 0.44 per share) was final dividend. Risk-weighted assets Capital ratios are supported by a decrease in group level Governance RWA (REA) compared with December 2015. Total RWA (REA) decreased by EUR 3.8 billion, amounting to EUR 104.2 billion at 31 December 2016, compared with EUR 108.0 billion at 31 December 2015. This decrease was primarily driven by lower credit risk. More information on RWA (REA) is provided in the Risk sections of this report. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 181 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Capital instruments Capital instruments b Strategy 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 First possible Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying (in millions) ISIN/CUSIP Maturity date call date amount amount amount amount Tier 1 EUR 1,000 million 4.31% per annum XS0246487457 Perpetual March 2016 1,000 1,042 EUR 1,000 million 5.75% per annum XS1278718686 Perpetual September 2020 1,000 993 1,000 993 Business Total Tier 1 capital instruments 1,000 993 2,000 2,035 Tier 2 GBP 150 million (originally GBP 750 million) 5.00% per annum XS0244754254 Perpetual 204 213 EUR 1,228 million 6.375% per annum XS0619548216 April 2021 1,228 1,475 1,228 1,489 USD 595 million 6.250% per annum XS0619547838 April 2022 563 615 546 606 Risk, funding & capital USD 113 million 7.75% per annum US00080QAD79/ May 2023 USN0028HAP03 107 110 93 101 EUR 1,000 million 7.125% per annum XS0802995166 July 2022 1,000 1,146 1,000 1,121 USD 1,500 million 6.25% per annum XS0827817650 September 2022 September 2017 1,421 1,438 1,377 1,392 SGD 1,000 million 4.7% per annum XS0848055991 October 2022 October 2017 655 658 649 640 EUR 1,500 million 2.875% per annum XS1253955469 June 2025 June 2020 1,500 1,552 1,500 1,537 USD 1,500 million 4.75% per annum US00080QAF28/ July 2025 XS1264600310 1,421 1,459 1,204 1,250 EUR 1,000 million 2,875% per annum XS1346254573 January 2028 January 2023 1,000 1,039 SGD 450 million 4.7% per annum XS1341466487 April 2026 April 2021 295 294 Leadership USD 300 million 5.6% per annum XS1385037558 April 2031 284 273 USD 1,000 million 4.8% per annum US0008DAL47/ April 2026 XS1392917784 947 898 EUR various smaller instruments 2015 2020 212 214 313 316 Total Tier 2 capital instruments 10,634 11,171 8,113 8,666 Of which eligible for regulatory Governance capital: Basel III, Tier 1 1,000 Basel III, Tier 2 7,150 4,938 Basel III, Excess Tier 1 instrument recognised as Tier 2 capital 2,000 Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 182 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Movements in subordinated liabilities b 2016 2015 Strategy (in millions) Carrying amount Carrying amount Balance as at 1 January 9,708 8,328 Issuance 2,660 2,839 Redemption -1,363 -1,740 Foreign exchange differences 194 271 Other -29 11 Business Balance as at 31 December 11,171 9,708 Minimum capital requirement bv9r The Pillar 1 capital requirement is the absolute minimum Risk, funding & capital amount of capital required to cover the three major risk types that a bank faces: credit risk, operational risk and market risk as determined in the CRD IV Pillar 1 framework. The following table provides an overview of RWA (REA) and minimum capital requirements per risk type, category of exposure and regulatory approach. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 183 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Minimum capital requirements bv9r 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Strategy (in millions) Capital requirement RWA (REA) Capital requirement RWA (REA) Credit risk IRB Central governments and central banks 80 1,001 78 978 Institutions1 201 2,517 231 2,887 Corporates 3,359 41,985 3,247 40,592 Retail 1,869 23,366 2,130 26,631 Business of which secured by immovable property/ retail mortgages 1,446 18,081 1,622 20,269 of which qualifying revolving exposures 203 2,534 240 3,005 -of which other retail 220 2,750 269 3,357 Equities not held for trading 423 5,293 415 5,185 Securitisation positions 8 95 7 84 Credit valuation adjustment 64 804 88 1,105 Risk, funding & capital Other2 141 1,761 119 1,491 Total credit risk IRB 6,146 76,821 6,316 78,953 Credit risk SA Central governments and central banks 2 19 11 132 Institutions 1 22 280 12 153 Corporates 208 2,599 283 3,535 Retail 61 761 63 793 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 81 1,009 41 510 Leadership Exposures in default 5 58 7 88 Other2 127 1,593 152 1,900 Total credit risk SA 506 6,319 569 7,110 Other risks Market risk 326 4,072 457 5,710 of which Standardised Approach 5 457 5,710 Governance of which Internal Model Approach 325 4,067 Operational risk 1,360 17,003 1,298 16,227 of which Standardised Approach 1,360 17,003 1,298 16,227 Total other risks 1,686 21,075 1,755 21,938 Total 8,337 104,215 8,640 108,001 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment companies, regional and local governments and pension funds. Annual Financial Statements 2 Other includes non-credit obligations. Main regulatory developments ABN AMRO is already managing its regulatory capital adequacy position in anticipation of Basel III fully-loaded Basel III/CRD IV 9 requirements. ABN AMRO is compliant with the more The Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) and the restrictive fully-loaded capital requirements. In addition to Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) set the framework Basel III fully-loaded requirements, the European Commission for the implementation of Basel III in the European Union. has recently issued draft texts to amend CRD IV and CRR. CRD IV and CRR were phased in on 1 January 2014 and are expected to be fully effective by January 2019. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 184 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Basel IV measures to deal with failing banks. Implementation of Commonly referred to as Basel IV, the Basel Committee the BRRD in the European Union began in 2015 and the Strategy on Banking Supervision has presented two consultative bail-in framework has been applicable since January 2016. documents on a revision of the Standardised Approach Implementation of the bail-in framework has led to the and the design of a capital floor framework based on this introduction of additional loss-absorbing measures, such revised Standardised Approach. This framework will as the Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible replace the current transitional floor based on the Basel I Liabilities (MREL). standard. The aim of the revised capital floor framework Business is to enhance the reliability and comparability of riskABN AMRO monitors the pending regulatory requirements weighted capital ratios. The revision of the Standardised in relation to MREL and aims for an MREL of at least 8% Approach for Residential Real Estate and SMEs in by year-end 2018. Final MREL terms, as well as bankcombination with the revision of the capital floors could specific MREL requirements, will determine what lead to a significant increase in risk-weighted assets for precise measures we will undertake to comply with ABN AMRO. these requirements. At 31 December 2016, the Group Risk, funding & capital had a 7.4% MREL (solely based on own funds and Regulatory developments, such as the Basel proposal other subordinated liabilities). MREL increased by 0.6 (especially with respect to the risk-weighting of mortgages percentage point compared with 31 December 2015, and corporate loans) and increasing capital requirements primarily driven by Tier 2 issuances and profit set by the regulators, could have a significant impact on the accumulation over 2016. bank’s capital position going forward. Hence, ABN AMRO will continue to focus on capital efficiency and further ABN AMRO aims for an MREL of at least 8% in 2018 strengthen its capital position. through profit retention, balance sheet management, issuance of new subordinated capital instruments and Leadership MREL potentially non-preferred senior debt, thereby increasing The Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) its buffer of loss-absorbing instruments. provides authorities with more comprehensive and effective MREL Governance (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Regulatory capital 25,637 23,431 Other MREL eligible capital1 3,376 3,162 Total assets2 394,482 390,317 MREL3 Annual Financial Statements 7.4% 6.8% 1 Other MREL eligible capital includes subordinated liabilities that are not included in regulatory capital. 2 For management view purposes, the historical periods before 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for the revised accounting relating to the netting. Further details are provided in note 1 Accounting policies of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 MREL is calculated as total regulatory capital plus other MREL eligible subordinated liabilites divided by total IFRS assets. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 185 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Impact of CRD IV/CRR fully-loaded rules on capital ratios Phase-in Fully-loaded 31 December 2016 Strategy Common Equity Tier 1 capital 17,775 17,761 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 17.1% 17.0% Tier 1 capital 18,605 18,749 Tier 1 ratio 17.9% 18.0% Total regulatory capital 25,637 24,107 Business Total capital ratio 24.6% 23.1% RWA (REA) 104,215 104,215 Leverage ratio (CDR) 3.9% 3.9% Risk, funding & capital The CRR fully-loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio at ​​​​​​​The fully-loaded leverage ratio increased by 0.1 percentage 31 December 2016 was 17.0%, slightly lower than the point to 3.9% at 31 December 2016 over the full year CRR phase-in Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 17.1%. (31 December 2015: 3.8%). The increase can be attributed to profit accumulation, which more than offsets a Under the CRD IV/CRR fully-loaded rules for capital EUR 15 billion increase in the exposure measure. deductions, prudential filters and RWA (REA), the impact on the capital ratios is as follows: On 6 April 2016, the Basel Committee issued a ÅÅ RWA (REA) are equivalent to those under phase-in rules; consultative document on the revision to the Basel III ÅÅ The amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital is leverage ratio framework. Among the areas subject to Leadership approximately equal to the amount under the phase-in proposed revision in this consultative document are the rules since the fully-loaded impact on Common Equity change in calculation of the derivative exposure and the Tier 1 capital deductions is largely neutral; credit conversion factors for off-balance sheet items. ÅÅ Total capital is expected to decrease by EUR 1.5 billion, The revised calculation method of derivative exposure resulting in a decline in the total capital ratio of is also mentioned in a draft CRR regulation published in 1.5 percentage points, from 24.6% to 23.1%. This is December 2016, which could result in a decrease of the Governance primarily due to the loss of eligibility of non-CRR exposure measure for clearing guarantees. This decrease compliant Tier 2 capital instruments. would amount to approximately EUR 40-50 billion, or a 35-45 bps increase in the fully-loaded leverage ratio. Leverage ratio An adjustment of credit conversion factors for off-balance The CRR introduced a non-risk based leverage ratio which sheet exposures, for example unconditionally cancellable will be monitored until 2017 and further refined and commitments, would partly offset this potential increase. Annual Financial Statements calibrated before becoming a binding measure as from 2018. The Commission Delegated Regulation (CDR), applicable since 1 January 2015, amended the definition of the leverage ratio to enhance comparability of leverage ratio disclosures. ABN AMRO aims for a leverage ratio of at least 4% by year-end 2018, to be achieved through profit retention, the issuance of AT1 instruments and management of the exposure measure. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 186 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions) Phase-in Fully-loaded Fully-loaded Strategy Tier 1 capital 18,605 18,749 17,688 Exposure measure (CDR) On-balance sheet exposures 394,482 394,482 405,840 Off-balance sheet items 32,420 32,420 29,183 On-balance sheet netting 13,539 13,539 11,098 Derivative exposure 50,248 50,248 31,541 Business Securities financing exposures 2,686 2,686 1,317 Other regulatory measures -13,364 -13,269 -14,322 Exposure measure 480,011 480,106 464,657 Leverage ratio (CDR) 3.9% 3.9% 3.8% Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 187 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Sustainability risk Introduction Sustainability risk A ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog! Connectivity of material topic 16 Advice on increased sustainability risk Strategy Link to Important to these See material topics Certain industries face more sustainability risks than strategy stakeholders and connectivity on others and the nature of the risks they face vary as well. page 19 Our Sustainable Banking department provides advice regarding clients operating in industries with a higher Business sustainability risk. The following graphs present a breakdown of the advice given per industry, together with the type of advice and the conclusion. Global advice1 Risk, funding & capital 30 48 19 44 6 12 7 10 Agriculture 56 Chemicals & Pharma 72 92 65 Defence Energy & Public utilities Fisheries 2016 37 2015 Total 499 Total 450 Forestry 39 32 Infrastructure 25 Manufacturing industry 40 Mining & Metals 28 3 Miscellaneous industries 7 5 Leadership 11 59 11 Oil & Gas 77 8 55 51 Tobacco Transport & Logistics 1 Provided by the central sustainability risk department. Other industries The number of cases for which the Central Sustainability Type of advice Governance Risk department provided advice, increased slightly from 499 500 18 450 in 2015 to a total of 499 in 2016. The types of advice 450 23 and conclusion are presented below. Of the 499 cases for 400 195 109 which advice was given in 2016, we rejected 15 cases and 300 approved 315. In 167 cases, we approved the request subject to certain conditions. In these cases, we engaged 200 Annual Financial Statements with our clients and negotiated for improvement. A total 318 286 100 of 179 clients were subject to specific human rights due diligence, compared with 160 clients in 2015 (Human 2015 2016 Rights Report 2016). Client acceptance Request for finance Other requests Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 188 Risk, funding & capital / Risk, funding & capital review / Sustainability risk Introduction Conclusion of advice Effectiveness of sustainability risk management 499 2 We believe that we are in control of sustainability risk. 500 15 450 3 Strategy The Sustainable Banking department advised negatively 8 400 167 on around 3% of the total cases. First line relationship 86 managers are aware of the bank’s sustainability risk 300 policies and predominantly file credit applications that 200 comply with these policies. In addition, we further 353 315 developed our framework and performed sustainability 100 Business assessments for more than 3,470 transactions using the GSRI tool, 1,927 of which were assessed on our ESE 2015 2016 standards due to an increased sustainability risk level. Approvals Pending An area requiring further improvement is more stringent Approved with conditions Withdrawn Rejections follow-up on conditions for improvement and transparency in engagement trajectories with clients. Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 189 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Strategy The following section includes additional disclosures on risk, funding and capital. Business This information is provided according to EU IFRS, Pillar 3, EDTF and market discipline. This required information is a supplement to the core analysis provided in the Risk, funding & capital review section and provides additional or more detailed information. Risk, funding & capital Credit risk exposure at carrying amounts, without consideration of collateral The following table presents the EU IFRS view on maximum or other credit enhancements. As such, the table does exposure to credit risk. The financial instruments subject not represent the Group’s risk management view. to credit risk are presented in accordance with EU IFRS Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 190 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maximum exposure to credit risk EU IFRS b (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 21,861 26,195 Strategy Financial assets held for trading 1,607 1,706 Less: equity securities 35 19 Financial assets held for trading 1,572 1,687 Derivatives 14,384 19,138 Financial investments 45,497 40,542 Business Less: equity instruments 468 367 Less: private equities and venture capital 731 577 Less: Equity securities 45 54 Financial investments 44,253 39,543 Risk, funding & capital Securities financing 17,589 20,062 Loans and receivables banks 13,485 15,680 Loans and receivables customers1, 2 267,679 276,375 Other assets 6,050 4,893 Less: Unit-linked investments 3,275 2,543 Less: Other 476 452 Other assets 2,299 1,899 Leadership On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk1, 2 383,122 400,578 Off-balance sheet Committed credit facilities 27,299 21,559 Guarantees and other commitments 15,873 13,868 Revocable credit facilities 3 82,338 82,865 Off-balance sheet credit facilities and guarantees 125,511 118,292 Governance Maximum exposure to credit risk 508,633 518,870 1 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 Although not committed, ABN AMRO has the opinion that revocable credit facilities give rise to credit risk. These are not included as committed credit facilities in note 33. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 191 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity distribution by exposure class v 31 December 2016 Strategy Less than Between one year More than (in millions, Exposure at Default) one year and five years five years Total Central governments and central banks 33,235 9,495 17,325 60,054 Institutions 1 10,012 3,841 1,342 15,195 Corporates 50,073 41,138 16,436 107,647 Retail 9,639 5,257 158,947 173,844 Business of which secured by immovable property 1,953 4,053 154,036 160,042 of which qualifying revolving exposures 3,013 2,981 5,994 of which other retail 4,673 1,204 1,930 7,808 Securitisation positions 1,265 1,265 Total IRB2 102,960 59,730 195,314 358,004 Total SA3 3,884 2,757 13,074 19,714 Total 106,843 62,487 208,388 377,718 Risk, funding & capital Percentage of total 28% 17% 55% 100% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Maturity distribution by exposure class v 31 December 2015 Between one year (in millions, Exposure at Default) Less than one year and five years More than five years Total Central governments and central banks 34,315 9,635 14,942 58,892 Leadership Institutions1 8,583 2,108 3,486 14,177 Corporates 45,375 35,347 18,406 99,128 Retail 10,025 5,152 158,952 174,129 of which retail mortgages 1,525 4,028 153,753 159,306 of which qualifying revolving exposures 3,593 3,185 6,778 Governance of which other retail 4,907 1,124 2,014 8,045 Securitisation positions 1,125 1,125 Total IRB 2 98,298 52,242 196,912 347,452 Total SA3 3,103 1,352 11,113 15,568 Total 101,401 53,594 208,025 363,020 Percentage of total 28% 15% 57% 100% Annual Financial Statements 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 192 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Regulatory gross and net exposure by riskweight under the Standardised Approach Strategy These tables provide a breakdown of the regulatory gross and net credit exposure by risk weight for our credit portfolio exposures treated under the Standardised Approach, according to Basel-defined exposure classes. Business SA approach: regulatory gross and net credit exposure by risk-weight v 31 December 2016 (in millions, Risk Other risk Total Exposure at Default) weight 0% 2% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% weights EAD Regulatory gross exposure Central governments Risk, funding & capital and central banks 4,516 89 4,605 Institutions1 4,777 202 45 441 5,465 Corporates 6 4,044 1,391 5,441 Retail 4,802 305 5,107 Covered bonds Secured by real estate 854 245 4,090 5,189 Exposures in default 650 37 688 Other 598 787 2,793 4,178 Total2 5,114 4,777 202 854 45 4,809 5,726 37 9,108 30,672 Leadership 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. 31 December 2016 Total (in millions, Risk Other risk Total RWA Exposure at Default) weight 0% 2% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% weights EAD (REA) Regulatory net exposure Governance Central governments and central banks 4,536 29 4,565 19 Institutions1 4,777 201 32 413 5,422 280 Corporates 7 4 1,977 1,391 3,378 2,599 Retail 898 244 1,141 761 Covered bonds Secured by real estate 822 244 4,090 5,156 1,009 Annual Financial Statements Exposures in default 36 15 51 58 Other 598 787 1,468 2,853 1,593 Total SA2 5,134 4,777 201 829 32 901 3,044 15 7,635 22,567 6,319 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 193 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction SA approach: regulatory gross and net credit exposure by risk-weight v 31 December 2015 Strategy (in millions, Risk Other risk Total Exposure at Default) weight 0% 2% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% weights EAD Regulatory gross exposure Central governments and central banks 2,786 114 78 2,979 Institutions1 4,094 255 136 4,485 Business Corporates 3 6,085 1 865 6,953 Retail 5,041 576 5,617 Covered bonds Secured by real estate 418 6 2,434 2,858 Exposures in default 602 66 668 Other 621 728 3,305 4,654 Total2 3,407 4,094 255 418 5,043 7,534 66 7,395 28,213 Risk, funding & capital 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. 31 December 2015 Total (in millions, Risk Other risk Total RWA Exposure at Default) weight 0% 2% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% weights EAD (REA) Regulatory net exposure Central governments and central banks 2,805 114 39 2,958 132 Leadership Institutions1 4,094 254 45 4,393 153 Corporates 19 2 3,076 865 3,962 3,535 Retail 818 540 1,358 793 Covered bonds Secured by real estate 393 5 2,434 2,832 510 Exposures in default 19 46 65 88 Other 621 728 2,307 3,655 1,900 Governance Total SA2 3,426 4,094 254 413 820 3,942 46 6,228 19,223 7,110 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 194 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Credit quality by exposure class under the Internal Ratings-Based approach vt Strategy The following tables provide an overview of EAD, REA and LGD buckets by exposure class and grade category. IRB approach: credit quality by exposure class vt 31 December 2016 Business LGD 0% LGD 20% Total 20% 50% LGD >50% RWA (in millions) EAD RWA (REA) (REA)/EAD EAD (%) EAD (%) EAD (%) Exposure class Grade category Central governments Investment grade 59,870 857 1% 54% 44% 2% Risk, funding & capital and central banks Sub-investment grade 184 143 78% 79% 21% Impaired Total 60,054 1,001 2% 54% 44% 2% Institutions1 Investment grade 14,567 2,107 14% 39% 60% 1% Sub-investment grade 598 410 68% 31% 69% Impaired 30 0% 100% Total 15,195 2,517 17% 39% 60% 1% Corporates Investment grade 41,576 9,300 22% 46% 50% 4% Leadership Sub-investment grade 60,641 27,759 46% 72% 27% 1% Impaired 5,430 4,926 91% 27% 45% 28% Total 107,647 41,985 39% 60% 37% 4% Retail Investment grade 148,781 9,209 6% 81% 18% 1% Sub-investment grade 23,131 11,160 48% 52% 32% 16% Impaired 1,932 2,996 155% 3% 78% 19% Total 173,844 23,366 13% 76% 21% 3% Governance Securitisation positions Investment grade 1,265 95 8% 100% Sub-investment grade Impaired Total 1,265 95 8% 100% 0% 0% Credit valuation Investment grade adjustment Annual Financial Statements Sub-investment grade 804 Impaired Total 804 Total Investment grade 266,058 21,568 8% 67% 31% 2% Sub-investment grade 84,554 40,276 48% 66% 29% 5% Impaired 7,392 7,923 107% 21% 53% 26% Total2 358,004 69,767 19% 66% 31% 3% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 195 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction IRB approach: credit quality by exposure class vt 31 December 2015 Strategy LGD 0% LGD 20% Total 20% 50% LGD >50% RWA RWA (in millions) EAD (REA) (REA)/EAD EAD (%) EAD (%) EAD (%) Exposure class Grade category Central governments Investment grade 58,769 746 1% 41% 54% 5% and central banks Business Sub-investment grade 123 232 189% 75% 25% Impaired Total 58,892 978 2% 41% 54% 5% Institutions1 Investment grade 13,804 2,337 17% 19% 77% 4% Sub-investment grade 351 548 156% 8% 81% 11% Impaired 22 2 10% 78% 0% 22% Risk, funding & capital Total 14,177 2,887 20% 19% 77% 4% Corporates Investment grade 37,131 9,147 25% 39% 57% 4% Sub-investment grade 56,787 25,674 45% 78% 22% Impaired 5,211 5,771 111% 20% 43% 37% Total 99,128 40,592 41% 60% 36% 3% Retail Investment grade 140,275 8,986 6% 81% 17% 2% Sub-investment grade 31,295 13,469 43% 57% 31% 12% Impaired 2,559 4,175 163% 5% 76% 19% Total Leadership 174,129 26,631 15% 76% 20% 4% Securitisation positions Investment grade 1,125 84 7% 100% Sub-investment grade Impaired Total 1,125 84 7% 100% 0% 0% Credit valuation Investment grade 318 Governance adjustment Sub-investment grade 787 Impaired Total 1,105 Total Investment grade 251,105 21,618 9% 62% 35% 3% Sub-investment grade 88,556 40,710 46% 70% 26% 4% Impaired 7,791 9,948 128% 15% 54% 31% Annual Financial Statements Total2 347,452 72,277 21% 63% 33% 4% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 196 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction European exposures European government and government-guaranteed exposures b Strategy 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Government Gross Government Gross (in billions) Government guaranteed carrying amount Government guaranteed carrying amount Netherlands 8.4 8.4 8.5 8.5 France 5.0 5.0 4.7 4.7 Germany 5.0 5.0 4.5 4.5 Business Austria 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8 Belgium 3.9 3.9 3.2 3.2 European Union 2.0 2.0 1.6 1.6 Finland 2.4 2.4 2.1 2.1 Italy 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.4 Denmark 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Poland 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Risk, funding & capital United Kingdom 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Spain 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 Luxembourg 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Sweden 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 Total 30.9 30.9 29.0 29.0 Specific products and types of financing v Exposure at Default for equities not held for trading v 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Leadership (in millions, Exposure at Default) EAD RWA (REA) EAD RWA (REA) IRB Private equity (190%) 714 1,357 645 1,226 IRB Equity exposures subjected to risk weighting (250%) 1,829 1,949 IRB Exchanged traded (290%) Governance 72 209 98 287 IRB Other equity (370%) 513 1,898 465 1,723 Total 1,299 5,293 1,208 5,185 Exposure at Default for OTC derivatives v Annual Financial Statements (in millions, Exposure at Default) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Gross positive fair value1 45,811 45,135 Add: Potential future exposure add-on 8,164 11,369 Gross Exposure at Default 53,975 56,504 Less: Netting benefits 43,679 45,541 Less: Collateral held 3,676 3,950 Net Exposure at Default 6,620 7,012 1 Due to the implementation of CRD IV/CRR derivative exposures to central counterparties (CCP) are included as from 2014. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 197 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Additional information on forborne, past due and impaired loans Forbearance credit quality b 31 December 2016 Strategy Forborne assets not Forborne Total past due assets past Impaired forborne and not due but not forborne Specific Collective Total (in millions) assets impaired impaired assets allowance allowance allowance Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Business Residential mortgages 1,173 722 214 237 3 21 24 Consumer loans 519 223 59 237 29 37 66 Corporate loans 6,658 3,474 104 3,080 679 70 749 Other loans and receivables customers 359 223 17 119 27 27 Risk, funding & capital Total Loans and receivables customers 8,710 4,643 394 3,673 738 128 866 Total 8,710 4,643 394 3,673 738 128 866 Forbearance credit quality b 31 December 2015 Forborne assets not Forborne Total past due assets past Impaired Leadership forborne and not due but not forborne Specific Collective Total (in millions) assets1 impaired1, 2 impaired1, 2 assets1, 2 allowance allowance allowance Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 1,757 1,067 282 408 27 36 63 Other consumer loans 648 240 53 355 31 27 57 Governance Corporate loans 7,715 4,872 230 2,613 764 73 837 Other loans and receivables customers 383 135 13 235 36 36 Total Loans and receivables customers 10,504 6,314 578 3,611 857 136 993 Total 10,504 6,314 578 3,611 857 136 993 1 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments Annual Financial Statements within residential mortgages. For more information on the reclassification in allowances refer to the residential mortgages section. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 198 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Forborne assets by geography b 31 December 2016 Strategy The Rest of Rest of the (in millions) Netherlands Europe USA Asia world Total Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 1,152 19 1 2 1,173 Consumer loans 491 27 1 519 Business Corporate loans 4,509 642 389 309 810 6,658 Other loans and receivables customers 307 51 359 Total Loans and receivables customers 6,460 739 389 309 812 8,710 Total 6,460 739 389 309 812 8,710 Risk, funding & capital Forborne assets by geography b 31 December 2015 The Rest of the (in millions) Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia world Total Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 1,722 32 2 1,757 Other consumer loans 603 43 1 1 648 Leadership Corporate loans 1 6,594 413 72 188 448 7,715 Other loans and receivables customers 361 23 383 Total Loans and receivables customers1 9,280 511 72 189 452 10,504 Total1 9,280 511 72 189 452 10,504 1 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Forborne assets by business segment b Governance (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Retail Banking 1,552 2,157 Private Banking 227 375 Annual Financial Statements Corporate Banking 6,931 7,972 Total 8,710 10,504 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 199 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity of impaired exposures 31 December 2016 Strategy >one year & Gross Impaired <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) carrying amount exposures impaired impaired impaired Securities financing 17,590 Loans and receivables banks 13,488 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 149,255 1,257 966 279 11 Business Consumer loans 12,539 738 257 481 Corporate loans1 90,920 6,695 1,906 4,150 639 Other loans and receivables customers1, 2 13,838 222 129 75 18 Total Loans and receivables customers 1 266,551 8,912 3,258 4,985 668 Risk, funding & capital Other assets 2,303 12 7 5 1 Total on-balance sheet1 299,932 8,925 3,265 4,990 670 Total off-balance sheet 125,518 134 122 12 Total1 425,449 9,059 3,387 5,002 670 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. Maturity of impaired exposures 31 December 2015 Leadership >one year & Gross carrying Impaired <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) amount exposures5 impaired5 impaired5 impaired5 Securities financing 20,073 11 11 Loans and receivables banks Governance 15,682 2 2 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1, 2 148,465 1,511 1,179 321 12 Consumer loans 15,147 1,028 412 586 31 Corporate loans1, 3 100,387 6,179 2,310 3,022 848 Other loans and receivables customers1, 4 11,881 318 165 139 14 Annual Financial Statements Total Loans and receivables customers1, 2, 3 275,881 9,037 4,065 4,068 904 Other assets 1,903 11 6 4 1 Total on-balance sheet1, 2, 3 313,538 9,060 4,072 4,073 915 Total off-balance sheet 118,300 117 22 95 Total1, 2, 3 431,838 9,177 4,093 4,169 916 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Netting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Other 4 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. 5 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments within residential mortgages. For more information on the reclassification in allowances refer to the residential mortgages section. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 200 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity of allowances for impairments for identified credit risk 31 December 2016 Strategy Allowances for Impairments >one year & Impaired for identified <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) exposures credit risk impaired impaired impaired Securities financing Loans and receivables banks Business Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 1,257 -209 -157 -47 -6 Consumer loans 738 -387 -67 -320 Corporate loans1 6,695 -2,761 -209 -1,951 -600 Other loans and receivables customers1, 2 222 -68 -19 -44 -5 Total Loans and receivables customers 8,912 -3,425 -452 -2,363 -611 Risk, funding & capital Other assets 12 -5 -3 -1 -1 Total on-balance sheet 8,925 -3,430 -454 -2,364 -612 Total off-balance sheet 134 Total 9,059 -3,430 -454 -2,364 -612 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. Leadership Maturity of allowances for impairments for identified credit risk 31 December 2015 Allowances for Impairments >one year & Impaired for identified <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) exposures4 credit risk impaired impaired impaired Governance Securities financing 11 -11 -11 Loans and receivables banks 2 -2 -2 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 1,511 -245 -160 -78 -7 Consumer loans 1,028 -471 -140 -312 -19 Corporate loans1, 2 6,179 -3,098 -625 -1,708 -764 Annual Financial Statements Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 318 -78 -21 -49 -9 Total Loans and receivables customers 1, 2 9,037 -3,892 -946 -2,147 -800 Other assets 11 -4 -2 -1 -1 Total on-balance sheet1, 2 9,060 -3,908 -948 -2,150 -811 Total off-balance sheet 117 Total1, 2 9,177 -3,909 -948 -2,150 -811 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 For comparison purposes the 2015 figures have been adjusted for the accounting policy change regarding the Notional cash pooling. For further details please refer to note 1 in the Other Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. 4 As of 30 September 2016 ABN AMRO aligned the definition of default and impaired. Comparative figures have been adjusted excluding the reclassification in allowances for impairments within residential mortgages. For more information on the reclassification in allowances refer to the residential mortgages section. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 201 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity overview of assets and liabilities bp Strategy The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities arranged by the earliest possible contractual maturity. Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities bp 31 December 2016 Between Between Business Up to one and Between six and Between Between More Maturity one three three and twelve one and two and than five not (in millions) month months six months months two years five years years applicable Total Assets Cash and balances at central banks 21,861 21,861 Financial assets held for trading1 1,607 1,607 Derivatives Risk, funding & capital 571 937 510 442 766 3,440 7,718 14,384 Financial investments 1,866 2,697 1,450 2,564 2,840 10,534 22,318 1,227 45,497 Securities financing 14,106 2,681 162 641 17,589 Loans and receivables banks2 7,020 1,549 563 211 300 472 3,370 13,485 Loans and receivables customers2 24,871 10,047 2,715 6,627 25,109 25,490 172,819 267,679 Other assets1 4,887 997 279 753 258 230 418 4,558 12,380 Total assets 76,789 18,908 5,679 10,596 29,272 40,167 207,285 5,785 394,482 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading1 791 791 Leadership Derivatives 949 870 536 484 604 2,199 8,884 14,526 Securities financing 9,657 942 10 1,017 11,625 Due to banks2 4,106 760 424 196 59 5,105 2,770 13,419 Due to customers2 205,314 10,785 2,188 1,950 606 2,143 5,772 228,758 Issued debt 5,721 9,057 6,694 6,282 7,563 21,031 24,929 81,278 of which senior secured 1,751 260 236 2,050 7,660 17,397 29,354 Governance of which senior unsecured 1,125 1,680 308 4,543 4,763 12,870 7,528 32,817 of which securitisation 500 600 750 500 2,350 of which other 4,596 5,626 5,626 903 1 4 16,757 Subordinated liabilities 82 2,096 3,435 5,558 11,171 Other liabilities1 6,808 1,843 194 139 1,307 6 52 3,627 13,976 Total liabilities 233,344 24,256 10,117 11,157 11,157 33,920 47,965 3,627 375,544 Total equity 18,937 18,937 Annual Financial Statements Total liabilities and equity 233,344 24,256 10,117 11,157 11,157 33,920 47,965 22,565 394,482 Off-balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 27,299 27,299 Guarantees 2,659 2,659 Irrevocable facilities 6,178 6,178 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 7,037 7,037 Total off-balance sheet liabilities 43,173 43,173 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 Excluding Securities financing. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 202 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities bp 31 December 2015 Strategy Between Between one and Between six and Between Between Maturity Up to one three three and twelve one and two and More than not (in millions) month months six months months two years five years five years applicable Total Assets Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 Financial assets held for trading1 1,706 1,706 Business Derivatives 720 845 349 409 1,192 3,847 11,777 19,138 Financial investments 980 3,898 1,924 1,028 3,050 9,039 19,641 981 40,542 Securities financing 17,006 2,335 96 625 20,062 Loans and receivables banks2 5,192 2,151 198 205 413 291 7,229 15,680 Loans and receivables customers2, 3, 4 42,829 6,645 2,623 7,362 29,267 21,090 166,560 276,375 Other assets1 3,463 44 6 33 350 211 1,116 2,454 7,676 Total assets Risk, funding & capital 98,090 15,918 5,195 9,037 34,272 35,104 206,322 3,435 407,373 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading1 459 459 Derivatives 743 793 423 387 1,175 3,291 15,613 22,425 Securities financing 10,252 79 1 1,028 11 11,372 Due to banks2 4,342 1,077 541 401 32 4,446 3,790 14,630 Due to customers2, 3, 4 219,184 16,514 1,751 2,240 924 1,495 5,244 247,353 Issued debt 4,745 6,045 4,340 4,472 11,015 21,570 24,020 76,207 of which senior secured 135 439 2,282 6,664 16,436 25,956 Leadership of which senior unsecured 1,325 649 3,331 3,301 7,628 13,607 7,563 37,404 of which securitisation 600 1,100 1,250 18 2,968 of which other 3,420 5,396 874 132 5 49 3 9,879 Subordinated liabilities 5 82 114 9,507 9,708 Other liabilities1 2,581 681 287 525 663 7 181 2,710 7,635 Total liabilities 242,307 25,190 7,348 8,025 14,919 30,934 58,355 2,710 389,789 Total equity 17,584 17,584 Total liabilities and equity 242,307 25,190 7,348 8,025 14,919 30,934 58,355 20,295 407,373 Governance Off-balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 21,559 21,559 Guarantees 2,440 2,440 Irrevocable facilities 5,737 5,737 Annual Financial Statements Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 5,691 5,691 Total off-balance sheet liabilities 35,427 35,427 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 Excluding Securities financing. 3 Netting is no longer be applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. The impact on the comparative 31 December 2015 loans and receivables – customers balances and due to customers balances is EUR 1.5 billion. 4 ABN AMRO amended its offsetting policy in Q2 2016. The year-end 2015 figures have been adjusted accordingly. Further details are provided in note 1 Accounting policies. The impact on the comparative 31 December 2015 loans and receivables – customers balances and due to customers balances is EUR 15.5 billion. The following table provides a maturity analysis of the We believe this best represents the short-term nature and earliest contractual undiscounted cash flows for financial the cash flows of these activities. The contractual maturity Other assets and liabilities. Financial assets and liabilities held of the instruments may be extended over significantly for trading are recorded under on demand, at fair value. longer periods. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 203 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash flows b 31 December 2016 Strategy TradBetween Between Between Between Between ing Up to one and three six and one and two and More No On derivone three and six twelve two five than five matu(in millions) demand atives month months months months years years years rity Total Assets: Cash and balances at central banks 21,861 21,861 Financial assets held for trading1 1,607 1,607 Business Derivatives 508 219 238 357 530 1,229 3,119 2,395 8,596 Financial investments 384 1,510 2,804 1,700 3,006 3,602 12,205 23,552 1,227 49,991 Securities financing 9,412 4,697 2,685 164 4 8 20 661 17,652 Loans and receivables banks2 2,655 4,371 1,563 590 256 380 654 3,537 14,006 Loans and receivables customers2 11,160 14,067 11,382 5,928 12,557 35,092 48,090 193,456 331,731 Other assets 3,771 1,118 1,001 285 760 266 248 431 4,558 12,438 Total undiscounted assets 50,850 508 25,982 19,673 9,024 17,114 40,578 64,334 224,032 5,785 457,881 Risk, funding & capital Of which: Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Contractual amounts receivable 8 6 13 27 51 48 21 175 Contractual amounts payable 6 4 10 19 37 63 31 170 Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading 1 2 4 8 14 -15 -9 5 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 217 236 352 522 1,216 3,129 2,332 8,004 Liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading1 791 791 Leadership Derivatives 833 249 232 384 756 1,410 3,239 7,337 14,440 Securities financing 7,959 1,699 944 3 16 1,018 11,639 Due to banks2 1,634 2,476 775 459 261 179 5,354 2,872 14,011 Due to customers2 130,220 75,116 10,803 2,212 1,987 667 2,278 5,877 229,160 Issued debt 2,330 3,457 9,302 7,219 7,150 8,949 23,977 26,711 89,095 Subordinated liabilities 22 88 302 2,450 639 4,825 6,503 14,830 Other liabilities 1,024 5,785 1,845 197 143 1,308 7 53 3,627 13,989 Governance Total liabilities 143,958 833 88,805 23,988 10,777 12,762 14,170 39,681 49,354 3,627 387,955 Of which: Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Contractual amounts receivable 8 24 32 63 84 103 12 326 Contractual amounts payable 16 10 27 53 63 96 8 274 Total undiscounted gross settled Annual Financial Statements derivatives not held for trading 8 -13 -5 -10 -21 -7 -4 -52 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 240 209 389 725 1,401 3,130 6,023 12,115 Net liquidity gap -93,108 -324 -62,823 -4,315 -1,753 4,352 26,407 24,653 174,679 2,158 69,926 Off balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 27,299 27,299 Guarantees 2,659 2,659 Irrevocable facilities 6,178 6,178 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 7,037 7,037 Total off-balance sheet liabilities 43,173 43,173 Excluding Derivatives. Other 1 2 Excluding Securities financing. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 204 Risk, funding & capital / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash flows b 31 December 2015 Strategy TradBetween Between Between Between Between ing Up to one and three six and one and two and More No On derivone three and six twelve two five than five matu(in millions) demand atives month months months months years years years rity Total Assets Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 Financial assets held for trading1 1,706 1,706 Business Derivatives2 223 173 287 412 497 1,278 3,225 3,487 9,582 Financial investments 50 957 4,003 2,157 1,448 3,769 10,613 20,810 981 44,789 Securities financing 12,781 4,227 2,339 98 4 8 639 20,097 Loans and receivables banks3 2,859 2,340 2,174 246 294 571 657 7,591 16,731 Loans and receivables customers3, 4, 5 29,408 13,800 8,071 6,090 13,742 39,741 44,835 188,579 344,266 Other assets 2,570 894 46 11 43 365 245 1,147 2,454 7,775 Total undiscounted assets 75,569 223 22,392 16,919 9,015 16,029 45,733 60,214 221,613 3,435 471,140 Risk, funding & capital Of which: Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Contractual amounts receivable 15 5 20 55 76 128 137 436 Contractual amounts payable 11 3 14 27 41 68 9 174 Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading 4 2 6 28 35 60 128 262 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 169 285 406 469 1,241 3,164 3,286 9,020 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading1 459 459 Leadership Derivatives2 249 250 194 472 694 1,440 3,213 7,979 14,491 Securities financing 9,521 732 81 5 6 1,029 11 11,385 Due to banks2 1,979 2,371 1,100 590 490 197 4,795 3,972 15,494 Due to customers3, 4, 5 163,251 55,963 16,548 1,790 2,295 1,011 1,689 5,404 247,952 Issued debt 2,082 2,726 6,284 4,879 5,403 12,430 24,553 25,775 84,132 Subordinated liabilities 20 79 201 374 784 1,749 11,165 14,372 Other liabilities 1,218 1,364 682 288 527 664 8 182 2,710 7,642 Governance Total liabilities 178,509 249 63,426 24,967 8,225 9,788 17,557 36,017 54,478 2,710 395,927 Of which: Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Contractual amounts receivable 13 24 23 61 109 133 53 416 Contractual amounts payable 16 3 19 38 64 57 38 235 Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading 3 -21 -5 -23 -45 -76 -15 -182 Annual Financial Statements Net settled derivatives not held for trading 248 215 461 676 1,422 3,227 6,864 13,111 Net liquidity gap -102,941 -26 -41,033 -8,048 789 6,240 28,176 24,196 167,135 725 75,213 Off balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 21,559 21,559 Guarantees 2,440 2,440 Irrevocable facilities 5,737 5,737 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 5,691 5,691 Total off-balance sheet liabilities 35,427 35,427 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 As of year-end 2016, a redefined methodology for contractual amount of Gross settled derivatives not held for trading has been applied. The 2015 figures have been adjusted. Other 3 Excluding Securities financing. 4 Netting is no longer be applied to bank saving mortgages, hence the bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. The impact on the comparative 31 December 2015 loans and receivables – customers balances and due to customers balances is EUR 1.5 billion. 5 ABN AMRO amended its offsetting policy in Q2 2016. The year-end 2015 figures have been adjusted accordingly. Further details are provided in note 1 Accounting policies. The impact on the comparative 31 December 2015 loans and receivables – customers balances and due to customers balances is EUR 15.5 billion. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Introduction Leadership Strategy This section presents the bank’s leadership which includes the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. Additionally it presents the Report of the Supervisory Board over the year 2016. Business 205 211 Risk, funding & capital Managing Board Report of the Supervisory Board Statement of the Managing Board 206 209 Supervisory Board Leadership Chairman’s message 209 Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 206 Leadership / Managing Board / Statement of the Managing Board Introduction Managing Board Strategy Business Risk, funding & capital Leadership Managing Board (from left to right) Governance Johan van Hall, Kees van Dijkhuizen, Wietze Reehoorn Statement of the Managing Board Annual Financial Statements This report aims to give our stakeholders a balanced, Integrated reporting transparent picture of our short-term and long-term The integrated reporting framework of the International performance. We have embraced integrated reporting Integrated Reporting Council has helped us improve principles and focus on how we create value in response our reporting in recent years. We have gradually moved to what matters most to our stakeholders. from focusing mainly on providing financial information to providing more non-financial information as well. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 207 Leadership / Managing Board / Statement of the Managing Board Introduction This year we devoted specific attention to the following Corporate Governance guiding principles in the framework: Good corporate governance is critical for us to realise ÅÅ Materiality: We disclose information on matters that Strategy our strategic ambition of being a trusted and professional significantly affect the organisation’s ability to create value. partner for all our stakeholders. We launched various We conducted materiality research among our initiatives in 2016 to further strengthen our corporate stakeholders in 2016 and incorporated the topics they governance. The Rules of Procedure for both the believe are most important into this report. See also Supervisory Board and Managing Board were updated the Strategy section, What matters most. to ensure continued compliance with prevailing laws and Business ÅÅ Conciseness: We tried to strike a balance between regulations. These changes are also designed to increase disclosing enough information to meet regulatory the transparency of our internal governance and to create requirements and providing context to help our a more robust management control environment. stakeholders understand the organisation, without burdening the reader with irrelevant information. We have implemented changes to the governance model ÅÅ Reliability: We are committed to ensuring the accuracy for certain parts of Group Functions in the international Risk, funding & capital and reliability of all information provided in this report, network and at subsidiaries. More information is provided both financial and non-financial. To ensure the reliability under Subsidiaries and international governance in the of information provided in our Managing Board Report, Governance section. in addition to the Independent Auditor’s report on the Annual Financial Statements this year EY performed a Media limited assurance engagement on the disclosures related This report is intended to inform key stakeholder groups to the material topics identified by our stakeholders. that affect, and are affected by, our business. We have tried ÅÅ Connectivity: The connectivity table in the Strategy to make this report as accessible as possible to our different section shows how the material topics relate to both our stakeholder groups by making use of various media: Leadership strategy and our stakeholders. This table shows how our ÅÅ Annual Report supplement: Our Annual Report supplement stakeholders’ needs are incorporated into our strategic provides examples of initiatives we have deployed in areas choices for the coming years. Each material topic that our stakeholders deem important. The supplement presented throughout this report shows which stakeholders shows how we are putting our strategy into practice. have identified it as important and how our strategy ÅÅ Annual reporting website: Our annual reporting website addresses the topic. presents highlights of the Annual Report and the bank’s Governance performance in 2016. Accessible both by mobile phone Regulations and guidelines and computer, this website conveys our message in a ABN AMRO must comply with regulations such as clear and understandable manner, for example in short International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), videos highlighting our material topics. financial reporting requirements included in Title 9, ÅÅ Other publications: In addition to the above publications, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, Financial Supervision Act, we also publish information on our website that is of Annual Financial Statements Basel III (CRD IV/CRR) framework, and the Corporate interest to specific stakeholder groups that want to know Governance Code and Dutch Banking Code. more about our sustainability or financial performance. In 2016 we were the first financial institution in the world We also aim to incorporate the requirements of other to publish a Human Rights Report. standards into this report, including the Transparency Benchmark, Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Integrated Reporting. Amsterdam, 14 March 2017 The Managing Board Kees van Dijkhuizen, Chief Executive Officer Other Johan van Hall, Vice-Chairman Wietze Reehoorn, Chief Risk Officer ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 208 Leadership / Supervisory Board / Statement of the Managing Board Introduction Curriculum Vitae Managing Board Kees van Dijkhuizen (Dutch, male, 1955) He was appointed as CEO and Chairman Strategy Chief Executive Officer of the Managing Board on 1 January 2017. Kees van Dijkhuizen was appointed to the His current term expires in 2021. Managing Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Other positions: Chairman, Government and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on 1 May 2013. Committee on Export, Import and Investment Kees van Dijkhuizen was Chief Financial Officer Guarantees; Member, AFM Capital Market Business from 1 June 2013 to 31 December 2016. Committee; Board Member, Dutch Banking Association. Johan van Hall (Dutch, male, 1960) Supervisory position: Member Supervisory Board, Risk, funding & capital Chief Operating Officer/Vice-Chairman equensWorldline (pan-European Payment Johan van Hall was appointed to the Managing Processor); Vice-chairman, Advisory Committee Board of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on 9 April 2009, of Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek CBS to the Managing Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. (Statistics Netherlands); Member Supervisory on 18 December 2009 and to the Managing Council, Christelijk Voortgezet Onderwijs Baarn/ Board of Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as of 1 July Soest. 2010 merged with ABN AMRO Bank N.V.) on 1 Other positions: Board Member, Nyenrode April 2010. Johan van Hall is the Chief Operating International Advisory Board; Member, Officer responsible for Technology, Operations, NBA Signaleringsraad (Dutch professional and Property Services (TOPS). As of 1 June 2013, organisation for Accountants); Chairman, Leadership he is the Vice-Chairman of the Managing Board. Stichting “ABN AMRO Support for India”. His current term expires in 2018. Wietze Reehoorn (Dutch, male, 1962) Supervisory position: Member Supervisory Chief Risk Officer Council, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen; Wietze Reehoorn was appointed to the Managing Member Supervisory Board, Stichting Governance Boards of ABN AMRO Group N.V., ABN AMRO Amsterdam Institute of Finance (AIF); Bank N.V. and Fortis Bank Nederland N.V. (as of Member Supervisory Council, Stichting Topsport 1 July 2010, merged with ABN AMRO Bank N.V.) on Community; Member Supervisory Council, 1 April 2010. As Chief Risk Officer he is responsible Frans Halsmuseum. for Risk Management, Legal, Compliance & Other position: Board Member, Abe Bonnema Conduct and Security & Intelligence Management. Stichting. His current term expires in 2018. Annual Financial Statements Further details on the backgrounds and curricula vitae of the members of the Managing Board who left ABN AMRO in 2016 (based on information available at the time of resignation) are available on our website. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 209 Leadership / Supervisory Board / Chairman’s message Introduction Supervisory Board Strategy Business Risk, funding & capital Leadership Supervisory Board (from left to right) Governance Tjalling Tiemstra, Arjen Dorland, Annemieke Roobeek, Steven ten Have, Olga Zoutendijk, Frederieke Leeflang, Jurgen Stegmann Chairman’s message Annual Financial Statements For the first time as Chairman of the Supervisory Board The year under review was characterised by renewal of the of ABN AMRO, I am pleased to present the report of Supervisory Board and the beginning of a transformation the Supervisory Board for the year 2016. My duties as of the bank’s leadership and culture. At the heart of these Chairman commenced at the closing of the annual General changes were our enhanced focus on the needs of the Meeting on 18 May 2016. Mr Steven ten Have was bank’s clients, positioning the bank for competitive appointed Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board differentiation and sustainable growth, and building a effective the same date. Previously I served as ­ client-focused culture of high performance and accountability. Vice-Chairman from 20 August 2015 and as a member Other of the Supervisory Board from 1 July 2014. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 210 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board / Chairman’s message Introduction The bank’s operating environment has continued to Mr van Dijkhuizen previously served the bank as CFO evolve since ABN AMRO returned to the Amsterdam as from 1 June 2013 and, following regulatory approval, Strategy Stock Exchange in November 2015. Changing client Mr van Dijkhuizen assumed his duties as CEO effective needs and expectations, new entrants, rapid technological 1 January 2017. Speaking on behalf of my colleagues advancements and stricter regulations – these were the on the Supervisory Board, we are confident of key developments addressed during our assessment of Mr van Dijkhuizen’s ability to succesfully lead ABN AMRO the bank’s strategic priorities throughout the year. during the next stage of the bank’s long history. Business The Supervisory Board regularly discussed a broad array In the coming years the bank will focus even more of strategic considerations presented by the Managing strongly on generating sustainable growth and delivering Board, participated in joint strategy sessions, and critically value-add solutions to its clients. In addition, the bank reviewed and challenged the Managing Board’s plans. aims to improve its cost/ income ratio by growing At all times, the focus was on the interests of our clients, operating income, reducing costs, and consolidating and creating long-term value for the bank and building a client growing the bank’s positions in Corporate & Institutional Risk, funding & capital focused culture of high performance and accountability. Banking in the Netherlands as well as in the other markets in which the bank operates. During 2016, four new members joined the Supervisory Board, bringing new ideas, diverse experience and Above all, under Mr van Dijkhuizen’s leadership, the bank fresh perspective. The following members joined: in the next phase will focus on building a client-focused Mr Arjen Dorland, Ms Frederieke Leeflang, Mr Jurgen culture of high performance and accountability. This change Stegmann and Mr Tjalling Tiemstra. The following members management journey was initiated with the announcement stepped down: Mr Rik van Slingelandt, Mr Hans de Haan in February 2017 of a new management structure which and Mr Bert Meerstadt. will significantly de-layer the organisation and vastly Leadership reduce in size the top-heavy management structure. The Supervisory Board invested in its effectiveness and cohesiveness through sessions dedicated to team building. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank The Supervisory Board decided to reduce its size from the former Managing Board members Mr Gerrit Zalm, eight to seven members, to set the right example Ms Caroline Princen, Mr Chris Vogelzang and Mr Joop Wijn for a less top-heavy management structure of the bank. for their dedication and contributions to the bank. It was also a year of renewal for the Managing Board of I would like to especially thank our clients for their trust, Governance the bank. The Supervisory Board reached agreement with loyalty and business, our staff for their client focus, Mr Gerrit Zalm in September 2016 regarding his departure as enthusiasm and hard work, and my fellow colleagues on Chairman of the Managing Board effective 1 January 2017. the Supervisory Board for their commitment, contribution The Supervisory Board conducted a dual-track CEO and steadfastness during the year 2016. Annual Financial Statements succession process, with internal and external candidates, supported by an external executive search firm. Olga Zoutendijk In November 2016, following careful and extensive Chairman of the Supervisory Board consultation with key stakeholders, the Supervisory Board appointed Mr Kees van Dijkhuizen as CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board, subject to regulatory approval. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 211 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction Report of the Supervisory Board Strategy Developments in 2016 All members of the Supervisory Board passed the fit Business Ms Olga Zoutendijk was appointed by the Supervisory and proper test under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. Board as of the General Meeting of 18 May 2016 as The Supervisory Board confirms that all members of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board are independent within the meaning of provision III.2.2 of the Dutch Corporate Governance During 2016, four new members joined the Supervisory Code (2008). Board: Mr Arjen Dorland, Ms Frederieke Leeflang, Risk, funding & capital Mr Jurgen Stegmann and Mr Tjalling Tiemstra. The The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Tiemstra. following members stepped down: Mr Rik van Slingelandt, Ms Zoutendijk, Mr Dorland and Mr Stegmann were Mr Hans de Haan and Mr Bert Meerstadt. members on 31 December 2016. The new Supervisory Board members were carefully Mr Stegmann succeeded Ms Zoutendijk as the Chairman selected based on both their individual track records and of the Risk & Capital Committee as per 12 August 2016. the complementarity of their experience, capabilities and Ms Zoutendijk, Mr Dorland, Ms Annemieke Roobeek interpersonal styles within the overall Supervisory Board and Mr Tiemstra were members on 31 December 2016. team. The Supervisory Board granted the General Meeting Leadership the opportunity to recommend candidates for these Mr ten Have is the Chairman of the Remuneration, positions. The General Meeting did not recommend Selection & Nomination Committee. Ms Zoutendijk, candidates for these vacancies. Mr Dorland, Ms Leeflang and Ms Roobeek were members on 31 December 2016. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board invited the Employee Council to recommend candidates for nomination for the Governance relevant positions. The Employee Council decided not to Focus areas of the Supervisory Board in 2016 recommend candidates for nomination for these positions During the course of the year under review, the and confirmed its support for all proposed candidates. Supervisory Board held five meetings according to All appointments are for a term which ends at the close the pre-set schedule, four informal team meetings, three of the annual General Meeting in 2020. The Supervisory conference calls, six Permanent Education sessions and Board has adopted a retirement and reappointment seventeen additional meetings. The additional meetings Annual Financial Statements schedule, which is published on abnamro.com. focused on specific subjects, such as joint strategy discussions with the Managing Board, as well as the The Supervisory Board members have expertise relating to Supervisory Board’s evaluation of internal and external banking, strategy, change management, P&L management, candidates as part of the CEO succession process. accounting, innovation, IT, digitalisation, economics, risk management, remuneration and human resources management, sustainability and corporate social responsibility, legal and compliance issues, the development of products and services, and experience in the key markets in which the bank is active. The Other Supervisory Board has at least one financial expert. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 212 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction Plenary Supervisory Board meetings are usually spread The Managing Board attends the formal meetings of over two days, starting on the first day with the meetings the Supervisory Board and prepares detailed supporting Strategy of the Risk & Capital Committee in the morning and the documents. The regular meetings on average last four Audit Committee in the afternoon. The Remuneration, hours. Management Group members and the external Selection & Nomination Committee generally meets accountant were frequently invited to present on a few weeks prior. The Supervisory Board meeting on specific topics. the second day takes into account the outcome and recommendations of the committee meetings which The attendance record of the Supervisory Board members Business already took place. The Company Secretary attends all was as follows: meetings and is the secretary of the Supervisory Board and its committees. Formal Team Additional Total 2016 meetings (5)5 meetings (4)5 meetings (17) meetings (26) Risk, funding & capital O.L. Zoutendijk 5/5 4/4 15 24 D.J.M.G. van Slingelandt1 3/3 2/2 3 8 S. ten Have 3/5 4/4 15 22 J.M. Roobeek 5/5 4/4 16 25 J.S.T. Tiemstra 2 2/2 2/4 11 15 A.C. Dorland2 2/2 2/2 12 16 F.J. Leeflang2 2/2 2/2 13 17 J.B.J. Stegmann3 2/2 1/2 8 11 A. Meerstadt4 2/2 1/1 1 4 Leadership H.P. de Haan1 3/3 2/2 3 8 1 Until 18 May 2016. 2 As of 18 May 2016. 3 As of 12 August 2016. 4 Until 7 April 2016. 5 The total number of meetings attended per member may differ because some members of the Supervisory Board were appointed at a later date than others. The number between brackets reflects the number of meetings the member attended from the time of their appointment or until the time of their resignation. Governance In addition to the Supervisory Board’s focus on strategy, The Supervisory Board focused on innovation and the culture and the CEO succession process, as already digitalisation of products and services, data quality and described above in the Chairman’s message, other key data integration, reliability and availability of information, areas of focus for the Supervisory Board during the year the bank’s compliance with laws, codes and regulations were the bank’s compliance with regulations, specifically and simplification of the IT landscape and processes. preparation for the Market Abuse Regulations, Anti-money The Supervisory Board also focused on the resolution of Annual Financial Statements laundering/Sanctions and MiFID II. Furthermore the legacy legal and tax matters, the European Central Bank Supervisory Board was regularly updated on ABN AMRO’s initiated stress tests and the related stress test scenarios strategic risks and the design of the internal risk and the recommendations by the ECB following their management and control systems. During these updates internal risk governance review (RIGA). the Managing Board’s assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and control The Supervisory Board actively engaged its key systems was monitored and discussed. Other important stakeholders in 2016, visiting various parts of the topics were the bank’s risk management and risk appetite, organisation in the Netherlands and internationally to including deep dives on the bank’s Energy, Commodities obtain client and staff feedback regarding the bank’s duty & Transportation (ECT) client sector to analyse the of care, integrity, client focus, culture and competitive Other potential impact of various oil price scenarios, as well differentiation. We also met regularly with the bank’s as lessons learned from specific credit files. Employee Council to obtain their thoughts and input on ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 213 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction various issues, including their thoughts on the need to on the progress of the external audit and other subjects move away from an overly top-heavy management relevant to the responsibilities of the Audit Committee. Strategy structure toward a more dynamic culture of high The Chairman also met two times with the European performance and accountability for our clients. Central Bank and the Dutch central bank in 2016. The Supervisory Board highly values the constructive Committee members also met managers of different relationship with the Employee Council. departments to remain well informed about the subjects to be supervised by the Committee. At the same time, the Supervisory Board maintained Business active engagement throughout the year with the Dutch Directly after the meeting in which the annual accounts central bank, the European Central Bank, STAK AAG and were discussed, the Committee met the independent NLFI. Our aim throughout was to ensure that the bank is external auditor to seek confirmation that all relevant well positioned to create long-term value for its shareholders matters from the audit came to the attention of the and for society, while focusing firmly on clients’ interests Committee. The Committee held four non-executive and balancing the interests of all stakeholders. meetings in 2016, without members of the Managing Risk, funding & capital Board or the external auditor being present, which took Please note that a description of the duties, responsibilities place immediately prior to the plenary meetings of the and current composition of the Supervisory Board including Committee. its committees is provided in the Supervisory Board section of the Governance section. That section also includes ​​​​​​​On 18 May 2016 Mr Tjalling Tiemstra succeeded Mr Hans relevant details, such as other positions held by members de Haan as Chairman of the Committee. At the same date of the Supervisory Board. More information on remuneration Mr Rik Van Slingelandt stepped down and Mr Arjen Dorland is provided under Remuneration in the Governance section. was appointed as member of the Committee. These subjects are considered to be incorporated by On 7 April Mr Bert Meerstadt resigned as member of Leadership reference into this Report of the Supervisory Board. the Supervisory Board and as member of the Committee. Mr Jurgen Stegmann was appointed as member of the Supervisory Board on 12 August 2016 and as member The Supervisory Board Committees of the Audit Committee. Audit Committee In the plenary meetings the Committee discussed among Governance The Audit Committee (the ‘Committee’) held five regular other things the quarterly reports, the interim and annual meetings in 2016. The meetings were attended by all accounts, the quarterly press releases, the interim and final members of the Committee, with the exception of one dividend proposals, the 2015 Annual Report of ABN AMRO member not being present at one meeting. All plenary and key audit matters as reported by internal and external meetings of the Committee were attended by the audit. The Committee also discussed financial reporting, Chairman of the Managing Board, the CFO and the CRO. the overall internal control environment, the governance Annual Financial Statements Furthermore the Director Group Audit, the independent and internal controls over financial reporting, adherence external auditor and the Company Secretary attended the to laws and regulations governing financial and regulatory full meetings. All matters discussed in a plenary meeting reporting, regular reports on any signals from clients or of the Committee and which were relevant for the employees suggesting possible internal control issues and Supervisory Board were directly verbally reported in updates on tax and tax-related issues. The Committee the next meeting of the Supervisory Board. extensively discussed the performance and audit ratings of the bank’s first and second line departments on a quarterly In addition to the plenary meetings, the Chairman of basis. During each meeting it devoted attention to the the Committee regularly held separate sessions with the procedures for financial reporting, including the procedure independent external auditor, the Director Group Audit and for the establishment of loan impairments, the timelines Other the CFO. Furthermore, the Chairman of the Audit Committee in which impairments are established and the robustness met the independent auditor two times bilaterally focusing and development of the financial results and ratios, ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 214 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction including the level of loan impairments. The Committee Charter. Furthermore the progress concerning the Finance also took note of financial reports issued to supervisory & Risk Alignment Architecture Initiative was discussed as Strategy authorities, such as the COREP and FINREP reports. well as the approach for the Annual Report 2016. Furthermore the Committee considered the role, ​​​​​​​The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the Annual performance and reports from Group Audit, reports from Report 2016 and the Annual Financial Statements 2016 the external auditor, management letters and the auditor’s of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and all annexed information independence and fees. The Committee was also informed in March 2017. Business on, and discussed, all letters from the European Central Bank and Dutch central bank that were of interest to Risk & Capital Committee the Committee. The Risk & Capital Committee (the ‘Committee’) held four plenary meetings in 2016. These meetings were attended The Committee also closely monitored the financial and by all members of the Committee. All matters discussed regulatory reporting improvement programmes in 2016 in a plenary meeting of the Committee and which were Risk, funding & capital and was regularly updated on the progress of these relevant for the Supervisory Board were directly verbally programmes by the Managing Board, Group Audit and the reported in the subsequent meeting of the Supervisory external auditor. The Committee advised positively on the Board. The full Supervisory Board also received minutes proposal to advance the publication dates of quarterly of the Committee meetings.​​​​​​​ results from the second quarter of 2017 onwards. On 18 May 2016 Mr Rik van Slingelandt and Mr Hans de In addition to the regular topics noted above in February Haan stepped down as members of the Committee. At 2016 the Committee received the report of the external the same date Mr Tjalling Tiemstra and Mr Arjen Dorland auditor regarding the 2015 consolidated financial were appointed as members of the Committee. Mr Jurgen Leadership statements and subsequently discussed, approved, and Stegmann was appointed as member of the Supervisory advised the Supervisory Board to approve the quarterly Board and as Chairman of the Committee on 12 August 2016. report for Q4 2015. The Committee also approved the 2015 dividend proposal and discussed the focal points for the A recurring and regular item on the Committee’s agenda annual reporting and General Meeting highlighted by NLFI is the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Report, which and a letter concerning this topic from the VEB. provides a concise overview of the state of affairs of all Governance risk types identified in the risk taxonomy. The ERM report In March 2016 the Committee reviewed and discussed aims to identify cross-risk type issues and/or effects and the Annual Reports 2015 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and to provide a single integrated view on the bank’s risk ABN AMRO Bank N.V., the audit thereof by the external profile, benchmarked against the bank’s risk appetite auditor and the Management Control Statement. In May, (which is established annually by the Managing Board and in addition to the regular agenda items, the Committee approved by the Committee, the Supervisory Board and Annual Financial Statements discussed the audit plan 2016 of the external auditor as of the General Meeting) and its strategy. Other important fiscal year 2016, the assurance report on asset separation subjects included the bank’s largest individual exposures and the audit reports on Common Reporting 2015 and and lessons learned with regard to specific impairments. Financial Reporting 2015 by the leaving external auditor. Based on the ERM Report, the Committee also held in-depth discussions on risk governance, operational risks, In August 2016 the Committee agreed on the interim dividend market risks and credit concentration risks. The ERM proposal and advised the Supervisory Board accordingly. report and all other regular and one-off reports were used by the Committee to hold oversight on the risk function In November the Committee decided on the Group Audit and to advise the Managing Board concerning the Plan 2017-2021 and the annual review of the Group Audit risk function. ​​​​​​​ Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 215 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction Other recurring agenda items include the quarterly legal In the plenary meeting in May, the Committee was and compliance updates. Based on these reports the updated on the preliminary outcome of the ABN AMRO Strategy Committee discussed individual legal and compliance files, EU Stress Test, country risk in non-presence countries the performance of the compliance and legal functions, and policy approval procedures. compliance policies and procedures, progress updates on an improvement programme with regard to the In August, the Committee discussed and approved the Compliance & Conduct organisation, the relationship bank’s risk appetite for 2017 and the annual adjustment of with the supervisory authorities, and the impact of the international risk charter. Furthermore developments in Business national and international laws and regulations.​As of Q3 energy markets and the offshore industry were discussed. 2016, the discussion and assessment of the Compliance The EU-wide stress test results were discussed in depth. & Conduct reports have been transferred from the Committee to the Supervisory Board given its importance. In November the Committee discussed and approved an update on the bank’s risk appetite for 2017. Furthermore Furthermore the bank’s capital and funding plan was a the Committee discussed the national and international risk Risk, funding & capital permanent item on the Committee’s agenda. Each quarter governance charter, reviewed whether prices of liabilities the Committee assessed the current capital and funding and assets offered to clients take fully into account the plan and was updated on the bank’s capital and funding institution’s business model and risk strategy and positions. The Committee discussed the bank’s target examined whether incentives provided by the capital ratios, also in view of the long-term strategy, remuneration system take into consideration risk, capital, and the plans for raising capital and funding, including liquidity and the likelihood and timing of earnings. The the timing. Particular attention was paid to the leverage Committee also took note of and discussed an update on ratio and the liquidity coverage ratio, including the exact the Risk Governance and Appetite Review conducted by regulatory definition of these ratios and the national and the European Central Bank, an update on oil price Leadership international discussions in this respect. In all instances developments and an update with regard to the risk of the Committee advised the Supervisory Board on the negative interest rates. capital and funding plan. More information on the risk, capital, liquidity and funding​​​​​​​A permanent agenda item was the correspondence related topics discussed in the Risk & Capital Committee with the Dutch central bank, the European Central Bank, is provided in the Risk, funding & capital section. Governance the AFM and other supervisory authorities. The Committee was informed on these matters in quarterly oversight Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee reports prepared by the internal auditor and Compliance & The Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee Conduct. The Committee also discussed the vast number (the ‘Committee’) held four regular meetings in 2016. The of letters and reports received from and sent to the Dutch meetings were attended by all members of the Committee. central bank and the European Central Bank concerning The Chairman of the Managing Board, the Managing Board Annual Financial Statements risk and capital-related subjects.​ member responsible for People Regulations & Identity, representatives of HR and the Company Secretary also In addition to the abovementioned recurring agenda items, joined the meetings. in its meeting of February 2016 the Committee was informed on oil price developments and their impact As a result of the resignation of Mr Bert Meerstadt as on the performance of ABN AMRO. In this meeting also a member of the Supervisory Board with effect from the charter and annual plan of the Compliance & Conduct 7 April 2016, and consequently as a member of the function were discussed and approved. ​Other subjects Committee, the Committee then consisted of Mr Steven were country risk management and the annual report ten Have and Mr Rik van Slingelandt. Due to the lack of of the Security & Intelligence Management department. a quorum until the annual General Meeting in May 2016, Other the Committee’s decisions were ratified each time by the Supervisory Board. Subsequently Mr Rik van Slingelandt ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 216 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction stepped down as Chairman and member of the Board. Furthermore, in connection with the Variable Supervisory Board and as a member of the Committee Compensation Plan for Identified Staff members, the Strategy during the annual General Meeting on 18 May 2016. malus analysis, the gatekeeper process and the calculation As from 15 June 2016 the Committee was back at of the net asset value of performance certificates were full strength consisting of Mr ten Have (Chairman), discussed in detail. The related proposals received the Ms Olga Zoutendijk, Mr Arjen Dorland, Ms Frederieke Committee’s positive advice and were sent to the Leeflang and Ms Annemieke Roobeek. Until their Supervisory Board for approval. In addition, the Committee appointment to the Supervisory Board, Ms Leeflang asked the Managing Board to consider the possibility of Business and Mr Dorland attended the Committee’s meetings redesigning the current KPI framework and performance as observers. However, in accordance with stricter rating method in the near future to ensure full consistency legislation, the Supervisory Board continued to ratify with international developments and practices. all decisions taken by the Committee throughout 2016, including those taken in writing without a meeting ​​​​​​​In March, the Committee considered the targets and being held. assessment standards of the organisation-wide KPI Risk, funding & capital targets for 2016, which were subsequently approved by In 2016 the Committee continued focusing on the the Supervisory Board. The Risk & Capital Committee also succession planning of the Supervisory Board, the reviewed these targets, taking risk, capital and liquidity Managing Board and the Management Group and into account, with a positive outcome. Furthermore, rendered advice to the Supervisory Board regarding the the Committee advised positively on the list of Identified abovementioned topics. Staff for 2016. All relevant guidelines for qualification as Identified Staff were applied to this list, which is ​​​​​​​The Committee devoted careful attention to the required continuously subject to change. Furthermore, the search, selection and nomination processes that resulted remuneration restrictions imposed by the Act on the Leadership in the appointment of the Chairman and four members Remuneration Policy for Financial Undertakings (Wet of the Supervisory Board. All of its key stakeholders beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen, Wbfo) and were closely involved in, and kept well informed of, its impact on the organisation were discussed in depth. these processes at all times. The Committee is pleased that it succeeded in bringing the Supervisory Board up In its August meeting, the Committee held a discussion to full operational strength again. with the Managing Board on the definition of a long-term Governance vision on remuneration and possible structural measures Another important focus area was the selection and and adjustments to the current reward system. The recruitment process for the successor to the Chairman of Committee initiated this dialogue with the aim of balancing the Managing Board. The Committee, and in particular its society’s concerns and increasing regulatory constraints Chairman, in close consultation with the Chairman of the on remuneration with the need to attract and retain the Supervisory Board and supported by an external executive right talent. Moreover, the succession planning and Annual Financial Statements search firm, took the lead in the search and recruitment leadership assessment procedure for the Managing Board process, keeping all key stakeholders involved and well and Management Group were discussed extensively. informed throughout the process. In addition, the Chairman maintained close contact with the other Further to its request in February in which the Committee members of the Committee and the Supervisory Board. had asked the Managing Board to explore the possibility of redesigning the current KPI framework and assessment During the year a range of subjects were on the agenda of method, most of November’s meeting was devoted to the Committee. In February, the results of the organisation-­ discussing potential adjustments to this framework for the wide Key Performance Indicator (KPI) targets for 2015 Managing Board and Management Group. In addition, the were extensively reviewed, challenged and approved and Committee also discussed the results of the Employee Other the Committee issued positive advice to the Supervisory Engagement Survey 2016 and the leadership assessment Board on the 2015 performance review of the Managing results of the Senior Managing Directors. In December ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 217 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction the Committee’s Chairman met with representatives of Conclusion the European Central Bank and the Dutch central bank in The bank delivered good results in 2016, both financial Strategy order to report on the Committee’s activities. and non-financial, maintains a solid balance sheet and is well positioned for the future. Performance Evaluation of the The Supervisory Board has reviewed and approved the Supervisory Board Annual Report 2016, the annual Financial Statements 2016 The Supervisory Board entrusts the annual performance and all annexed information of ABN AMRO Group. The Business evaluation of the Supervisory Board as a whole and of its Financial Statements 2016 have been audited by the external individual members to a specialised external advisory firm. auditors, EY. Their findings have been discussed with the This process consists of a full performance evaluation Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board in the presence every three years, including face-to-face interviews with of the Managing Board. The auditors have expressed an the Chairman and each Board member. In the intervening unqualified opinion on the Financial Statements. years, this process consists of an online questionnaire, Risk, funding & capital conducted by the same external advisory firm. The Supervisory Board members have signed the 2016 Annual Financial Statements pursuant to their statutory The most recent full performance evaluation took place obligations under article 2:101 (2) of the Dutch Civil Code. in 2015 and the resulting report listed a number of The members of the Managing Board have signed the recommendations. This report and the recommendations 2016 Annual Financial Statements pursuant to their were discussed amongst the members of the Supervisory statutory obligations under article 2: 101(2) of the Dutch Board in mid 2016. The recommendations and conclusions Civil Code and article 5:25c (2) (c) of the Financial Market of the report which were relevant to the Managing Board Supervision Act. were shared with the Managing Board. Leadership The Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO, recommends that Consistent with the three year schedule, the Supervisory the annual General Meeting adopts the Annual Report Board assessed its performance over 2016 on the basis of a 2016 incorporating the Annual Financial Statements for the questionnaire conducted by the same external consultant year 2016 and the proposal to pay out a final cash dividend in February 2017, and will follow-up on the conclusions of of EUR 414 million or 0.44 per share. this Effectiveness Review during its upcoming Supervisory Governance Board team meetings. Amsterdam, 14 March 2017 The Supervisory Board also discussed the performance of the Managing Board and its individual members, The Supervisory Board the outcome of their individual leadership assessments conducted in Q3 of 2016, and the resulting conclusions. Olga Zoutendijk, Chairman Annual Financial Statements Steven ten Have, Vice-Chairman Arjen Dorland Frederieke Leeflang Annemieke Roobeek Jurgen Stegmann Tjalling Tiemstra Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 218 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction Curriculum Vitae Supervisory Board Olga Zoutendijk (Dutch, female, 1961) Last executive position held: Member of Strategy Chairman the Wholesale Banking global executive Olga Zoutendijk was appointed to the committee, Senior Managing Director and Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Group Head of Wholesale Banking, Asia at and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. effective 1 July 2014. Standard Chartered Bank. As of 20 August 2015 Olga Zoutendijk was Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory Business appointed Vice Chairman. As of 18 May 2016 Council, University of Leiden. Olga Zoutendijk was appointed Chairman. Her present term expires in 2018. Steven ten Have (Dutch, male, 1967) and Change Management/Director of the Risk, funding & capital Vice-Chairman Msc.-programme Change Management at Steven ten Have was appointed to the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Supervisory position: Chairman Supervisory on 30 March 2010 and as of 1 April 2010, to the Board, Software Improvement Group (SIG) B.V. Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and Other positions: Member of the Education Council Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as of 1 July 2010, of the Netherlands (Onderwijsraad); Chairman, merged with ABN AMRO Bank N.V.). As of 18 May Stichting “Center for Evidence-Based 2016 Steven ten Have was appointed ViceManagement”; Deputy expert member chairman. His present term expires in 2018. Ondernemingskamer Gerechtshof Amsterdam Current positions: Partner with Ten Have Change (Court of Enterprise at the Amsterdam Court Leadership Management; Full professor of Strategy of Appeal). Arjen Dorland (Dutch, male, 1955) Last executive position held: Executive Vice Member President of Technical and Competitive IT, Arjen Dorland was appointed to the Supervisory Royal Dutch Shell. Boards of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and Supervisory position: Member Supervisory Governance ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on 18 May 2016. Council, Stichting Naturalis Biodiversity Center. His present term expires in 2020. Annual Financial Statements Frederieke Leeflang (Dutch, female, 1969) Stichting KWF Kankerbestrijding (Dutch Cancer Member Society); Member Audit Advisory Committee of Frederieke Leeflang was appointed to the the Dutch Court of Audit (Algemene Rekenkamer). Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Other positions: Chairperson, Advisory Council, and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on 18 May 2016. Her Centrum Indicatiestelling Zorg (CIZ, Care present term expires in 2020. Assessment Centre); Board member, De Current positions: Lawyer, Competition and Amsterdamse Kring; Board member (vice European law at Boekel N.V. chairperson), Amsterdam Diner Foundation; Supervisory positions: Member (vice chairperson) Various lectureships at the Nederlandse Orde Supervisory Council, Onderwijsstichting Zelfstandige van Advocaten (Dutch Bar Association), Gymnasia (Educational Foundation of Independent Elsevier, Kluwer and OSR; Board member, Other Gymnasia); Member Supervisory Council, Vereniging voor Mededingingsrecht (Association for Competition law). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 219 Leadership / Report of the Supervisory Board Introduction Annemieke Roobeek (Dutch, female, 1958) Supervisory Positions: Member Supervisory Strategy Member Board, Abbott Healthcare Products B.V.; Annemieke Roobeek was appointed to the Member Supervisory Board, KLM N.V. Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Other positions: Chairperson, PGGM Advisory on 30 March 2010 and as of 1 April 2010, to the Board for Responsible Investment; Chairperson, Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Stichting INSID, Institute for sustainable Business and Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as of 1 July innovation & development directed by His Royal 2010, merged with ABN AMRO Bank N.V.). Highness Prince Carlos de Bourbon Parme; Her present term expires in 2017. Member, “Raad van Eigen Wijzen” (Advisory Current position: Professor of Strategy and Board), CPI Governance; Member, International Transformation Management at Nyenrode Advisory Board of Howaldt & Co, Hamburg, Business Universiteit; Director and owner of Germany. MeetingMoreMinds B.V.; Owner of Open Risk, funding & capital Dialogue B.V.; Co-owner of XL Labs B.V. Jurgen Stegmann (Dutch, male, 1960) Current position: Director and owner Member Stegmanagment B.V. Jurgen Stegmann was appointed to the Last executive position held: Chief Financial Officer Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Group N.V. at Robeco Groep N.V. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on 12 August 2016. Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory His present term expires in 2020. Board, Stichting Woonstad Rotterdam; Member Leadership Supervisory Board, Janssen de Jong Groep B.V. Tjalling Tiemstra (Dutch, male, 1952) member, Stichting Preferente Aandelen Member (Preference Shares) Wolters Kluwer; Board Governance Tjalling Tiemstra was appointed to the member, Stichting Administratie Kantoor van Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Aandelen N.V. Twentsche Kabel Holding and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on 18 May 2016. (Administration Office for Shares); Member His present term expires in 2020. Advisory Board, Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs Last executive position held: Chief Financial Officer (DUO) (Education Executive Agency of the of Hagemeyer N.V. Dutch Ministry of Education, Culture and Current positions: Director and owner, Science); Member Monitoringcommissie Code Annual Financial Statements Drs J.S.T. Tiemstra Management Services B.V. Pensioenfondsen (Monitoring Committee Dutch Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory Pension Funds Code); Member Advisory Board, Board, DKG Holding B.V.; Member Supervisory Court of Justice of Rotterdam; Deputy expert Board, Stichting Reinier de Graaf HAGA Groep; member, Ondernemingskamer Gerechtshof Member Supervisory Board, Batenburg Techniek Amsterdam (Court of Enterprise at the N.V.; Member Supervisory Board, Royal Amsterdam Court of Appeal); Chairman, Haskoning DHV B.V. Governance, Risk & Compliance Committee Other positions: Board member, Stichting of Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Continuïteit KBW N.V. (Continuity Foundation Accountants (NBA) (Dutch Institute of Chartered Koninklijke Boskalis Westminster); Board Accountants). Other Further details on the backgrounds and curricula vitae of the members of the Supervisory Board who left ABN AMRO in 2016 (based on information available at the time of resignation) are available on our website. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Introduction Strategy Business Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 220 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 ﻿ 221 Introduction Governance Strategy This section presents an overview of the Group’s corporate governance framework, including information on the bank’s remuneration policy and employee representation. Business 222 236 Risk, funding & capital Corporate Governance Remuneration Corporate structure 222 244 Managing Board 223 Supervisory Board 225 General Meeting and shareholder structure 227 Corporate Governance Codes and Regulations 231 Legal structure 234 Employee representation Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 222 Governance / Corporate Governance / Corporate structure Introduction Corporate Governance Strategy Corporate structure ABN AMRO Group is a public company with limited liability Boards of ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Bank and Business incorporated on 18 December 2009 under Dutch law. The the committees of these boards. Pursuant to section company has a two-tier board consisting of a Managing 2:154 of the Dutch Civil Code, the full structure regime Board1 and a Supervisory Board. The compositions of the applies to ABN AMRO Group. Under the mandatory full Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO structure regime, the Supervisory Board has the authority Bank are identical, as is the composition of the Managing to appoint and dismiss members of the Managing Board.​​​​​​​ Risk, funding & capital Supervisory Board Remuneration, Selection & Risk & Capital Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Leadership Managing Board Governance Asset & Group Transition Group Risk Central Credit Regulatory Liability Disclosure Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee1 Annual Financial Statements 1 The Transition Management Committee was discontinued as a Managing Board Committee as from 8 November 2016. Other 1 The current text refers to the management structure that was effective throughout the year 2016. The new management structure as announced on 6 February 2017 will become effective upon receipt of the required regulatory approvals. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 223 Governance / Corporate Governance / Managing Board Introduction Managing Board Composition An overview of the composition of the Managing Board, Strategy The Supervisory Board determines the number of including key information on the backgrounds and terms of members of the Managing Board, the minimum being two office of each Managing Board member, is provided in the people. On 31 December 2016, the Managing Board Managing Board section of this report and on abnamro.com. consisted of seven members. Responsibilities The year 2016 marked the beginning of a renewal of the The members of the Managing Board are collectively Business Managing Board. Mr Kees van Dijkhuizen, formerly responsible for the strategy, structure and performance of Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO, was appointed ABN AMRO. In carrying out their duties, the members of CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board with effect the Managing Board are guided by the interest and from 1 January 2017. The process of appointing a new continuity of ABN AMRO. The Managing Board is Risk, funding & capital CFO to succeed Mr van Dijkhuizen is under way. accountable to the Supervisory Board and to the General Meeting. The Rules of Procedure of the Managing Board With the exception of Mr van Dijkhuizen, who was are available on abnamro.com. appointed in 2013 for a period of four years, the current members of the Managing Board were reappointed at the General Meeting held on 10 April 2014. Each reappointment Appointment, suspension and dismissal was for a term which ends at the close of the first General Managing Board members are appointed by the Meeting held after four years have passed since his or Supervisory Board, which notifies the General Meeting of her last appointment. This is the maximum period for the intended appointment of a member of the Managing Leadership appointments and reappointments according to the Board. Only candidates who meet the fit and proper test best practice provision II.1.1 of the Dutch Corporate under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act are Governance Code (2008). Since Mr van Dijkhuizen was eligible for appointment. The Supervisory Board may appointed CEO as per 1 January 2017, and his mandate appoint one of the members of the Managing Board as as a Managing Board member is proposed to be extended Chairman and may at all times suspend a member of the on the occasion of the General Meeting in May 2017, his Managing Board. Further information on the suspension Governance extended mandate as a Managing Board member will be and dismissal procedure is provided in ABN AMRO’s aligned with his term as CEO of ABN AMRO. Articles of Association. The Supervisory Board reached agreement with Ms Caroline Princen and Mr Chris Vogelzang regarding Managing Board committees their resignation in 2017. Mr Joop Wijn resigned to pursue The Managing Board has established a number of Annual Financial Statements a new career opportunity. committees that are responsible for decision-making on certain subjects and for advising the Managing Board A new management structure was announced on on certain matters. This includes three risk-related 6 February 2017 which will become effective after the committees: the Group Risk Committee, the Group Asset required regulatory approvals have been obtained. More 1 & Liability Committee and the Central Credit Committee. information is provided in the Message from the CEO. More information on the delegated authority of these committees is provided in the Risk, funding & capital section. In addition, the Managing Board has installed a Group Disclosure Committee and a Group Regulatory Committee. Other 1 This Annual Report describes the management structure that was effective throughout the year 2016 only. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 224 Governance / Corporate Governance / Corporate structure Introduction The Group Disclosure Committee is responsible for, among other things, advising and supporting the Strategy Managing Board in relation to (i) supervision on the accuracy and timeliness of public disclosures by the Group, and (ii) integrity with regard to the financial statements and other public disclosures. The Group Regulatory Committee is responsible for, among Business other things, (i) ensuring a good understanding and an adequate overview of, (ii) regularly informing and consulting the Managing Board about, and (iii) making strategic choices and taking decisions on matters relating to changing national and international laws and regulations affecting the Group. Risk, funding & capital The Group Transition Management Committee, which was responsible for, among other things, tactical management of the Group-wide transition programmes, was discontinued in November 2016. A transformation committee will be installed to take on responsibility for safeguarding Group-wide transition programmes. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 225 Governance / Corporate Governance / Supervisory Board Introduction Supervisory Board Composition Appointment, suspension and dismissal Strategy The Supervisory Board determines the minimum number The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by of its members, which must in any case be at least three the General Meeting. Only candidates who have passed people. The Supervisory Board has drawn up a profile for the fit and proper test under the Dutch Financial Markets its composition and the desired expertise and background Supervision Act are eligible for appointment. Such Business of its members. This profile was discussed in the 2015 appointment is based on a nomination by the Supervisory General Meeting and with ABN AMRO Group’s Employee Board. The Supervisory Board must notify the General Council in 2015. The full profile of the Supervisory Board Meeting and the Employee Council simultaneously of its is available on abnamro.com, as an annex to the Rules nomination. The General Meeting may reject the nomination of Procedure of the Supervisory Board. with an absolute majority of the votes cast, representing at least one-third of the issued share capital. If an absolute Risk, funding & capital The Supervisory Board evaluates its own functioning majority has rejected the nomination, but the majority did and that of its individual members on an annual basis. not represent at least one-third of the issued share capital, For more information see the Report of the Supervisory a new meeting can be convened to vote on the nomination. Board (Performance Evaluation). In that case, the nomination can be rejected by an absolute majority of the votes cast (irrespective of the issued share In accordance with the best practice provisions of the capital present or represented at the meeting and irrespective Dutch Corporate Governance Code, Supervisory Board of the percentage of the issued share capital which that members are appointed for a maximum of three 4-year majority represents). If the General Meeting does not terms (which end at the close of the first General Meeting appoint the nominee and does not resolve to reject the Leadership that is held after four years have passed since his or her nomination, the Supervisory Board will appoint the nominee. last appointment). The General Meeting and the Employee Council may recommend candidates to the Supervisory Board to be Responsibilities nominated as members of the Supervisory Board. The The Supervisory Board supervises the Managing Board as Supervisory Board is required to nominate a candidate Governance well as ABN AMRO Group’s general course of affairs and recommended by the Employee Council in respect of its business. In addition, it supports the Managing Board one-third of the members of the Supervisory Board. The by providing advice. In performing their duties, the Supervisory Board must accept the recommendation of members of the Supervisory Board are guided by the the Employee Council, unless it believes that the candidate interests of ABN AMRO. Specific powers are vested in the recommended is unsuitable to fulfil the duties of a member Supervisory Board, including the approval of certain of the Supervisory Board or that the Supervisory Board Annual Financial Statements decisions taken by the Managing Board. would not be properly composed if the appointment were made as recommended. More information on the activities of the Supervisory Board in 2016 is provided in the Report of the Supervisory The Supervisory Board may suspend any of its members at Board included in this Annual Report. any time. The General Meeting can dismiss the Supervisory Board in its entirety due to lack of confidence in the Board, The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board are by an absolute majority of the votes cast, representing a available on abnamro.com. quorum of at least one-third of the issued share capital. If this quorum is not met, there is no possibility of holding a second General Meeting in which no quorum applies. Further Other information on the suspension and dismissal procedure is provided in ABN AMRO’s Articles of Association. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 226 Governance / Corporate Governance / Supervisory Board Introduction Supervisory Board committees Supervisory Board with regard to, among other things, (i) Composition remuneration policies and execution of these policies for Strategy The Supervisory Board has established three regular members of the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board committees to prepare its decision-making and to advise the and selected members of senior management, (ii) the Supervisory Board on certain matters: the Audit Committee, selection, appointments and reappointments of members the Risk & Capital Committee and the Remuneration, of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board, (iii) Selection & Nomination Committee. The Rules of Procedure succession plans for the Supervisory Board and the Managing of the Supervisory Board include the terms of reference Board, (iv) the knowledge, skills, experience, performance, Business of these committees and are available on abnamro.com. size, composition and profile of both boards, (v) the performance of the members of both boards, and (vi) Audit Committee reporting on the execution of the remuneration policies in The Audit Committee is tasked with the direct supervision a remuneration report. The committee is composed of Mr of all matters relating to financial reporting and controlling. Steven ten Have (Chair), Mr Arjen Dorland, Ms Frederieke In doing so, it is responsible for supervising and advising Leeflang, Ms Annemieke Roobeek and Ms Olga Zoutendijk. Risk, funding & capital the entire Supervisory Board with regard to, among other things, (i) the assessment of the principles of valuation Introductory programme and lifelong and determination of results for the financial statements, learning programme (ii) internal control and financial reporting functions, (iii) Introductory programme internal and external audit, (iv) risk assessment of issues Upon their appointment, all members of the Supervisory that could impact the financial reporting, (v) compliance Board follow an introductory programme designed to with relevant laws and regulations, (vi) mediation between ensure that they have the relevant knowledge to fulfil their internal or external auditors and/or management, and (vii) duties, including thorough knowledge of ABN AMRO. The reporting to the Supervisory Board. The committee is programme provides the information needed for Leadership composed of Mr Tjalling Tiemstra (Chair), Mr Arjen Dorland, participation in the lifelong learning programme. As the Mr Jurgen Stegmann and Ms Olga Zoutendijk. knowledge, background and experience of newly appointed members of the Supervisory Board differ, the Risk & Capital Committee curriculum of the introductory programme is tailor-made. The Risk & Capital Committee is responsible for supervising and advising the entire Supervisory Board with regard to, Lifelong learning programme Governance among other things, (i) risk management and risk control, ABN AMRO has a lifelong learning programme for the including pricing policies, (ii) compliance, (iii) the allocation of Supervisory Board and the Managing Board which is capital and liquidity, (iv) the bank’s risk appetite, (v) compliance designed to keep the members’ expertise up to date and with applicable laws and regulations (including codes of to broaden and deepen their knowledge where necessary. conduct and internal procedures), (vi) risk awareness within In most cases, members of the Supervisory Board and the bank, (vii) sound remuneration policies and practices in Managing Board participate in the same courses to foster Annual Financial Statements light of risk, capital, liquidity and expected earnings, (viii) knowledge-sharing between the boards. The curriculum is proposing corrective and/or disciplinary measures against developed and updated continuously to ensure a balanced members of the Managing Board in the event of a breach of programme covering all relevant aspects of the bank’s applicable laws and regulations, and (ix) periodic reviews of performance and takes into account current developments the Group’s actual risk profile. The committee is composed in the financial industry. Topics covered in 2016 included an of Mr Jurgen Stegmann (Chair), Mr Arjen Dorland, interactive workshop on the EU Data Protection Regulation, Ms Annemieke Roobeek, Mr Tjalling Tiemstra and Corporate Culture and Stress Testing & Scenario Analysis. Ms Olga Zoutendijk. Additionally, the Supervisory Board followed a separate workshop on Operational Risk Management and visited Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee International Card Services and the ABN AMRO Digital Other The Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee is House. The Managing Board had a separate workshop on responsible for supervising and advising the entire Regulatory Expectations and the Market Abuse Regulation. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 227 Governance / Corporate Governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction General Meeting and shareholder structure Strategy General Meeting ABN AMRO Group held two General Meetings in 2016: The annual General Meeting is held each year, on 30 June the annual General Meeting on 18 May 2016 and the Business at the latest. The agenda for the annual General Meeting extraordinary General Meeting on 12 August 2016. The must contain certain matters as specified in ABN AMRO’s annual General Meeting of ABN AMRO Group on 18 May Articles of Association and under Dutch law, for example 2016 was the first public general meeting since the the adoption of the Annual Financial Statements. The inception of ABN AMRO in 2010. Agenda items included General Meeting is also entitled to approve important adoption of the 2015 Annual Financial Statements, decisions regarding the identity or character of ABN AMRO, approval of the proposed dividend for the year 2015, Risk, funding & capital such as major acquisitions and divestments. discharge of each member of the Managing and Supervisory Boards in office during the financial year 2015, The Supervisory Board and the Managing Board can both approval of the authorisation for the Managing Board to (a) convene a General Meeting. Shareholders or holders of issue shares and grant rights to subscribe to rights for depositary receipts issued with the cooperation of shares for a period of 18 months up to a maximum of 10% ABN AMRO Group may also convene additional of the issued share capital of ABN AMRO Group, (b) limit extraordinary General Meetings, if they represent at least or exclude pre-emptive rights, and (c) acquire shares or 10% of the issued share capital. NLFI may also request depositary receipts representing shares in ABN AMRO the Managing Board or Supervisory Board to convene a Group’s own capital for a period of 18 months, subject to Leadership General Meeting, as stated in the Relationship the approval of the Supervisory Board and up to a Agreement. Shareholders or holders of depositary maximum of 5% of the free float, as well as the receipts who alone or together represent at least 3% of appointment of Mr Arjen Dorland, Ms Frederieke Leeflang the issued share capital of ABN AMRO Group are entitled and Mr Tjalling Tiemstra as members of the Supervisory to have items added to the agenda of the General Board. All agenda items for approval were approved by the Meeting, provided they submit a request for this (including General Meeting. Governance reasons) to ABN AMRO Group at least 60 days prior to the General Meeting. The extraordinary General Meeting of 12 August 2016 had only one agenda item: the appointment of Mr Jurgen Stegmann as a new member of the Supervisory Board. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 228 Governance / Corporate Governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction Shareholder structure Strategy The State of the Netherlands Institutional and private investors (Represented by the Ministry of Finance) Depositary receipts Depositary receipts (Not listed on the stock exchange) (Listed on the stock exchange (AEX)) Business Stichting Administratiekantoor beheer Stichting Administratiekantoor Continuiteit financiële instellingen (NLFI) ABN AMRO Group (STAK AAG) 70% 30% Risk, funding & capital ABN AMRO Group N.V. ABN AMRO Bank N.V. ABN AMRO Bank is a wholly-owned subsidiary of ABN the Dutch Ministry of Finance. However, important Leadership AMRO Group. At 31 December 2016, all shares in the decisions taken by NLFI require the prior approval of the capital of ABN AMRO Group were held by two Dutch Minister of Finance, who can also give binding foundations: NLFI and STAK AAG. On that date, NLFI held voting instructions to NLFI with respect to such decisions. approximately 70% and STAK AAG held approximately NLFI is not permitted to dispose of or encumber the 30% of the shares in the issued capital of ABN AMRO ordinary shares in the capital of ABN AMRO Group, except Group. Both foundations have issued depositary receipts pursuant to an authorisation from and on behalf of the Governance for shares in ABN AMRO Group. Only STAK AAG’s Dutch Minister of Finance. depositary receipts have been issued with the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group and are traded on Euronext NLFI entered into a Relationship Agreement with ABN Amsterdam. AMRO Group governing their relationship after the IPO. The Relationship Agreement will terminate if and when NLFI NLFI (directly or indirectly) holds less than 10% of ABN Annual Financial Statements The Dutch State holds an interest in ABN AMRO Group AMRO Group’s issued share capital. A limited number of through NLFI. NLFI was set up as a means to avoid clauses will not terminate under any circumstances. The potential conflicting responsibilities that the Dutch Relationship Agreement includes inter alia the following Minister of Finance might otherwise face, and to avoid provisions, subject to certain conditions stated in the undesired political influence being exerted. NLFI issued agreement: exchangeable depositary receipts for shares in the capital ÅÅ the right of NLFI to advise: (a) the Supervisory Board on of ABN AMRO Group to the Dutch State. NLFI is the appointment or reappointment of (i) members of the responsible for managing these shares and exercising all Managing Board and (ii) the Chairman of the Managing rights associated with these shares under Dutch law, Board or the Supervisory Board, and (b) the Managing including voting rights. NLFI acts as a standalone Board on a proposal for the appointment of the external Other shareholder independently from the Dutch State, including auditor; ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 229 Governance / Corporate Governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction ÅÅ NLFI’s right of prior approval of any issuance of (or STAK AAG granting of rights to acquire) shares in ABN AMRO STAK AAG is independent from ABN AMRO and the Strategy Group or ABN AMRO Bank for as long as NLFI holds at holder of shares in ABN AMRO Group’s issued share least 33 1/3% of the shares in ABN AMRO Group; capital. STAK AAG has acquired such shares for the ÅÅ for as long as NLFI holds more than 50% of the shares purpose of administration (ten titel van beheer) in in ABN AMRO Group: any investments or divestments exchange for depositary receipts. The manner in which by ABN AMRO Group or any of its subsidiaries with a this structure can serve as a defence measure and STAK value of more than 5% of the equity of ABN AMRO AAG’s role in this is further described in this section under Business Group, and Anti-takeover measures. ÅÅ for as long as NLFI holds 50% or less but 33 1/3% or more of the shares in ABN AMRO Group: any investment In addition to serving as a defence measure, STAK AAG or divestments by ABN AMRO Group or any of its also aims to promote the exchange of information subsidiaries with a value of more than 10% of the between ABN AMRO Group on the one hand and holders equity of ABN AMRO Group; of depositary receipts and shareholders on the other. It Risk, funding & capital ÅÅ the obligation of NLFI to effect sell-downs of also promotes the acquisition of voting instructions from ABN AMRO Group shares through STAK AAG; DR holders, for example by organising a meeting of ÅÅ certain orderly market arrangements; and depositary receipt holders prior to ABN AMRO Group’s ÅÅ certain information rights for NLFI as long as it holds at General Meeting. STAK AAG will also report on its least 33 1/3% of the shares in ABN AMRO Group. activities at least once a year in its annual report. In addition, further sell-downs of NLFI’s shareholding in ABN On 17 November 2016 NLFI announced it had sold 65 AMRO Group will take place through STAK AAG (and in million depositary receipts representing ordinary shares in the form of depositary receipts) only. ABN AMRO Group for a price of EUR 20.40 per depositary Leadership receipt. Following the transaction, NLFI’s stake declined The Trust Conditions of STAK AAG state that it will ensure from 77% to approximately 70%. As per 31 December that, no later than two weeks before a General Meeting of 2016 STAK AAG held approximately 30% of the ordinary ABN AMRO Group is held, a meeting of depositary receipt shares in line with the maximum possible under the most holders is held at which the agenda items of that General restrictive Declaration of No Objection (DNO) or similar Meeting will be discussed. Accordingly, STAK AAG held regulatory approvals obtained at the time of the IPO. For meetings of depositary receipt holders on 26 April 2016 Governance future sell-downs by NLFI, the ABN AMRO Trust Office and 22 July 2016. will need to obtain new DNOs and other regulatory approvals.The full text of the Relationship Agreement is The STAK AAG website (stakaag.org) provides more available on abnamro.com. information on the activities of STAK AAG, the Articles of Association (including STAK AAG’s objectives), the Trust On 21 April 2016 a periodic meeting was held with NLFI, Conditions and any meetings of depositary receipt Annual Financial Statements in accordance with the terms of the Relationship holders. Agreement. Among other things, the following topics were discussed: the agenda of the 2016 annual General On 17 November 2016 a periodic meeting was held Meeting and the proposed statement by NLFI at the between ABN AMRO and NLFI. Among other things, the General Meeting, the approach to potential subsequent following topics were discussed: the sell-down by NLFI of sell-downs of ABN AMRO Group shares by NLFI, and depositary receipts for ABN AMRO Group shares on 16 NLFI’s yearly focus letter (speerpuntenbrief) and November 2016, requests for declarations of no objections ABN AMRO’s reply. Furthermore, NLFI and ABN AMRO (DNOs) and other approvals from relevant regulators in hold investor meetings on a quarterly basis to discuss connection with STAK AAG acquiring ABN AMRO Group the most recently published financial results. shares in excess of current bandwidths, the exchange of Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 230 Governance / Corporate Governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction information between ABN AMRO and STAK AAG must seek the non-binding advice of the works council (including in a hostile situation), the succession of Gerrit before taking certain decisions with respect to the Strategy Zalm and other current affairs. enterprise, such as those related to a major restructuring, a change of control, or the appointment or dismissal of a Anti-takeover measures member of the managing board. Certain other decisions ABN AMRO has implemented a structure whereby STAK directly involving employment matters that apply either to AAG is the holder of shares in ABN AMRO Group’s issued all employees or certain groups of employees may only be share capital and has issued depositary receipts taken with the works council’s consent. Business representing such shares with the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group. The purpose of having a structure under The Employee Council deals primarily with topics that which depositary receipts are created and STAK AAG is affect all parts of the group’s organisation and meets the legal owner of the underlying shares is to create a regularly with members of the Managing Board and defence measure. Supervisory Board on various other occasions throughout the year. The Employee Council and ABN AMRO Group Risk, funding & capital STAK AAG will do everything in its power to deter any have entered into an agreement under which the action that could affect the independence, continuity or Employee Council has been granted certain additional identity of ABN AMRO. In a non-hostile situation, STAK rights (the Works Council Covenant). Under the Works AAG will act primarily in the interests of depositary receipt Council Covenant, the Employee Council has the right holders. In a hostile situation, STAK AAG will act primarily of inquiry (enquêterecht) within the meaning of Section in the interests of ABN AMRO Group and its business 2:346 of the Dutch Civil Code in the event of a hostile enterprises. Under all circumstances STAK AAG will also situation. The Works Council Covenant defines the take into account the legitimate interests of all other following situations as hostile: (i) a public offer has been stakeholders: clients, savers and deposit holders, announced or is made in respect of shares in the capital Leadership shareholders, depositary receipt holders, employees, and of ABN AMRO Group (or in respect of depositary receipts the society in which ABN AMRO operates. representing such shares) or there is a justified expectation that this will take place, without agreement first having In a non-hostile situation, STAK AAG will grant a power of been reached between the bidder and ABN AMRO Group, attorney to the holders of depositary receipts to exercise (ii) the exercise of the voting rights by a depositary receipt the voting rights attached to the underlying shares. STAK holder or shareholder would effectively be in conflict with Governance AAG will not exercise voting rights on the shares, unless the interests of ABN AMRO Group and its business, or (iii) holders of depositary receipts have requested it to do so. any other situation in which the independence, continuity This may be different under hostile circumstances as or identity of ABN AMRO Group and the enterprises described in section 2:118a of the Dutch Civil Code. In this associated with ABN AMRO Group could be harmed. case, STAK AAG may refuse or revoke powers of attorney Other situations can be qualified as hostile by agreement for up to two years (whereby NLFI must approve this as between the Employee Council and ABN AMRO Group. Annual Financial Statements long as NLFI holds at least 33 1/3% of the shares in ABN Furthermore, if NLFI requests the consent, cooperation AMRO Group). In this case, STAK AAG will vote itself. In and/or a position statement of ABN AMRO Group in the doing so, it should, pursuant to the Trust Conditions and event of a subsequent placement or a private sale of the articles of association of STAK AAG, focus primarily on shares or depositary receipts, the Employee Council will ABN AMRO’s interests, taking into account the legitimate be requested by ABN AMRO Group to provide advice interests of the stakeholders mentioned above. within the meaning of articles 25 and 26 of the Works Councils Act (Wet op de Ondernemingsraden). Employee Council (Raad van Medewerkers) ABN AMRO’s employees are represented by works councils (ondernemingsraden) at all levels of its group. Under Other Dutch law, the managing board of any company running an enterprise where a works council has been established ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 231 Governance / Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Codes and Regulations Introduction Corporate Governance Codes and Regulations Strategy ABN AMRO Group is required to comply with a wide a further substantiation of this best practice provision, variety of governance codes and regulations. This includes which may be necessary due to the fact that a situation Business the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Banking could arise in which proposals to amend the Articles of Code and CRD IV. This section explains how ABN AMRO Association or the corporate governance structure of Group complies with these codes and regulations. ABN AMRO Group are interrelated in such a way that More comprehensive overviews of ABN AMRO Group’s separate votes on each of those proposals could result compliance with such codes and regulations are published in an imbalanced voting result and consequently to an under the Corporate Governance section of abnamro.com. imbalance in the corporate governance structure. Risk, funding & capital Dutch Corporate Governance Code ABN AMRO Group applies principle II.3, best practice We believe that corporate governance that meets high provisions II.3.2 II.3.4, principle III.6 and best practice international standards significantly boosts the confidence provisions III.6.1 III.6.3, which deal with actual and of the stakeholders in a company. Compliance with the apparent conflicts of interest. However, ABN AMRO applicable corporate governance codes by financial Group makes an exception with respect to conflicts of institutions is an important basis for restoring trust in the interest that are exclusively the result of the identical financial sector as a whole. Since the depositary receipts composition of the Managing Boards of ABN AMRO Bank were listed on Euronext Amsterdam, ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Group and the Supervisory Boards of the Leadership has been required to adhere to the Dutch Corporate respective entities. Moreover, ABN AMRO entered into an Governance Code. ABN AMRO Group has complied with agreement on 3 November 2015 with Worldline in respect all principles and best practices of the Dutch Corporate of its shareholding in Equens SE, where Managing Board Governance Code that was applicable to the company in member Mr Johan van Hall is a supervisory director of 2016, except for the deviations and nuances described currently equensWorldline. That transaction was closed below. ABN AMRO Group also publishes under the in the second half of 2016. The procedure as imposed by Governance Corporate Governance section of its website a detailed the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the Rules of ‘comply or explain’ list with regard to the Corporate Procedure of the Managing Board, respectively, in case Governance Code that was applicable in 2016. of a conflict of interest has been strictly adhered to and accordingly, Mr Johan Van Hall has not participated in ABN AMRO Group applies best practice provisions I.2 and the related Managing Board deliberations and decisions. IV.3.9, which state that (a) each substantial change in the Annual Financial Statements corporate governance structure of ABN AMRO Group and Furthermore, Mr Johan Van Hall was consulted in his in the compliance with the Code and (b) material changes capacity as Head of TOPS in a Request for Proposal in in the Articles of Association and proposals to appoint which equensWorldline was one of the offering parties. members of the Supervisory Board (and members of the He has not participated in the decision making bodies Managing Board, but this does not apply to ABN AMRO and the item was not discussed in the Managing Board. Group) should be presented to the General Meeting as a separate discussion item or voting item, as applicable. ABN AMRO Group does not fully apply principle III.5. Instead of having a separate remuneration committee and The only exception to this practice is that the Managing a selection and nomination committee, these committees Board and the Supervisory Board may decide to place are combined into one committee. Other certain topics on the agenda under one agenda item if the topics are related. ABN AMRO Group considers this to be ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 232 Governance / Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Codes and Regulations Introduction ABN AMRO Group applies best practice provision III.5.4, Compliance with best practice provisions IV.2.1 IV.2.7 is a which provides for the responsibilities of the audit responsibility of the board of STAK AAG. With respect to Strategy committee. However, in deviation from this provision, ABN best practice provisions IV.2.5 and IV.2.8, the following AMRO Group has decided to assign responsibility for applies. Under normal circumstances, STAK AAG will be supervising the functioning of the internal risk guided by the interests of the holders of depositary management system and compliance with codes of receipts and will take into account the interests of ABN conduct to the Risk & Capital Committee, instead of to the AMRO Group and the enterprises associated with it. In Audit Committee, as ABN AMRO Group has a separate principle, STAK AAG has the obligation to grant a power of Business Risk & Capital Committee. attorney to depositary receipt holders to exercise the voting rights attached to the underlying shares and will not Principle III.8 and best practice provision III.8.1 III.8.4 are exercise voting rights on the shares in ABN AMRO Group not applicable because ABN AMRO Group has a two-tier (unless depositary receipt holders have requested STAK board. Best practice provision V.3.3 is not applicable as AAG to do so). The foregoing could be different in hostile ABN AMRO does have an internal audit function. situations as described in Article 2:118a of the Dutch Civil Risk, funding & capital Code. STAK AAG may then decide to (a) limit, exclude or ABN AMRO Group does not apply principle IV.2 (and best revoke powers of attorney and (b) not observe any voting practice provision IV.2.8). In contradiction to this principle instructions received for a period of no longer than two and provision, the issuing of depositary receipts by STAK years. Furthermore, under the depositary receipt terms AAG is primarily used as a defence measure and not to (administratievoorwaarden), when exercising the voting prevent a situation in which, as a result of shareholder rights in accordance with the objects clause of STAK AAG absenteeism, a minority of shareholders can control the as laid down in the STAK AAG articles of association, STAK decision-making process at a General Meeting. Regulatory AAG should focus primarily on the interests of ABN considerations have been decisive in choosing a structure AMRO Group and its business. Leadership with depositary receipts as a protective measure. Declarations of No Objection could be obtained up front ABN AMRO Group applies principle IV.3 (which deals with only by means of a structure with depositary receipts. equal and simultaneous provision of information to These Declarations of No Objection are required in shareholders), however with the understanding that ABN connection with the direct or indirect acquisition of a AMRO Group will observe the Relationship Agreement qualified holding in ABN AMRO Bank, and certain other with NLFI and the special position of STAK AAG. In this Governance regulated entities in which ABN AMRO Group holds an respect, reference is made to ABN AMRO Group’s policy interest. Therefore, this structure provided the greatest on bilateral contacts with shareholders, which is further possible certainty of adequate protection of ABN AMRO described above and can be found on abnamro.com. Group against a hostile takeover. Although the issuing of depositary receipts has been primarily set up as a defence An updated Dutch Corporate Governance Code was measure and not to prevent absenteeism, STAK AAG does published on 8 December 2016 and will apply to the Annual Financial Statements aim to promote the exchange of information between financial year 2017. ABN AMRO will report on compliance ABN AMRO Group on the one hand and holders of with the new code in the 2017 Annual Report. depositary receipts and shareholders on the other, for example by organising a meeting of depositary receipt Dutch Banking Code holders prior to every General Meeting. Please see the The Dutch Banking Code was introduced in 2010 to ensure STAK AAG website (stakaag.org) for more information that banks commit to and account for treating their on the purpose and functioning of the depositary receipts customers with care while balancing the interests of and STAK AAG, including information on situations in various stakeholders. An updated Dutch Banking Code which STAK AAG may decide to limit, refuse or revoke came into effect on 1 January 2015, along with the Social powers of attorney (and to not observe any voting Charter (Maatschappelijk Statuut) which is complementary Other instructions received). to the Dutch Banking Code. The Dutch Banking Code, along with the Social Charter, which includes the Banker’s ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 233 Governance / Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Codes and Regulations Introduction Oath and the associated rules of conduct and disciplinary B.V. ABN AMRO applies the principles of the Dutch rules, applies to all employees of financial institutions in Banking Code to all of these Dutch subsidiaries on a Strategy the Netherlands and emphasises the social role of banks consolidated basis. An explanation of the manner in which and their commitment to meeting the expectations of these subsidiaries comply with the Dutch Banking Code is society at large. The Dutch Banking Code sets out published on abnamro.com. principles that banks with a corporate seat in the Netherlands should observe in terms of corporate CRD IV governance, risk management, audit and remuneration. Article 96 of CRD IV requires financial institutions to Business Although ABN AMRO Group does not have a banking explain on their website how they comply with the licence itself, the Dutch Banking Code does apply to ABN requirements of Articles 88 through 95 of CRD IV. These AMRO Bank as the main entity within the group that holds Articles set out governance, disclosure, remuneration and a banking licence. nomination requirements for financial institutions. The obligation to publish such an overview was implemented We are committed to complying with the Dutch Banking into Dutch law by Article 134b of the Decree on prudential Risk, funding & capital Code and devote a great deal of effort to ensuring that the measures FMSA (Besluit prudentiële regels Wft). spirit of the code is reflected in the behaviour of ABN AMRO has published on abnamro.com an overview employees and in the culture of the bank. As such, we are of how ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Bank comply pleased to confirm that ABN AMRO Group complies with with Article 134b of the Prudential Measures Decree and the principles of the Dutch Banking Code 2015. Article 96 of CRD IV. A principle-by-principle overview of the manner in which Under CRD IV, all members of the management body of a ABN AMRO Bank complies with the Dutch Banking Code bank (including non-executive members or supervisory 2015 is published on abnamro.com. Throughout 2016, we board members acting in their role of overseeing and Leadership continued to improve the manner in which we apply the monitoring management decision-making) must commit principles of the Dutch Banking Code, taking into account sufficient time to allow them to perform their duties and the focus areas indicated by the Dutch Banking Code to be able to understand the bank’s business. In respect Monitoring Committee. of significant banks, such as ABN AMRO Bank, Article 91 of CRD IV contains a specific regulation for the limitation All members of the Supervisory Board and Managing of the number of executive and non-executive Governance Board of ABN AMRO Group have taken the Banker’s Oath. directorships such members may hold (which rules have Taking the oath is required by Dutch law. The oath is a been implemented in Dutch law through Section 3:8(3) confirmation of ABN AMRO’s existing policy, which is fully Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act). The rules in the in line with the bank’s business principles and core values. Dutch Corporate Governance Code are also applicable to Along with the introduction of a Social Charter and the ABN AMRO Group, but are not as strict as the rules under Dutch Banking Code, the Dutch banking industry has CRD IV. Annual Financial Statements taken the initiative to have all employees take the Banker’s Oath. Employees take the oath so that they will be All members of the Managing Board and Supervisory personally responsible for complying with these rules of Board currently comply with the aforementioned rules conduct and may be held accountable for non-compliance under CRD IV and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. in the near future. With respect to Supervisory Board members Ms Annemieke Roobeek and Mr Tjalling Tiemstra, requests for Subsidiaries of ABN AMRO Bank authorisation of one additional non-executive directorship and the Dutch Banking Code that each of them currently holds have been approved by On 31 December 2016, ABN AMRO Bank had four Dutch the European Central Bank. subsidiaries with a banking licence: ABN AMRO Clearing Other Bank N.V., ABN AMRO Groenbank B.V., ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep B.V. and International Card Services ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 234 Governance / Corporate Governance / Legal structure Introduction Legal structure Global structure of ABN AMRO Group Neuflize Vie S.A. is a joint venture of Banque Neuflize OBC Strategy The full list of subsidiaries and participating interests as (60%) and AXA (40%). Neuflize Vie is a life insurance referred to in Article 414, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code company and was created to offer life insurance products has been filed with the Trade Register. for (ultra) high net-worth individuals and has developed customised solutions with a focus on unit-linked contracts. Retail Banking The Retail Banking business of ABN AMRO is supported Corporate Banking Business by the following subsidiaries (this list is not The Corporate Banking business of ABN AMRO is exhaustive):ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep B.V. offers all supported by the following subsidiaries (this list is not ABN AMRO labelled residential mortgage products, exhaustive): ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. is a global including Direktbank, Florius and MoneYou brands;ALFAM leader in derivatives and equity clearing. It is one of the Risk, funding & capital Holding N.V. provides consumer loans via intermediaries few players currently able to offer global market access under four different labels: Alpha Credit Nederland, and clearing services on more than 85 of the world’s Credivance, Defam and GreenLoans.International card leading exchanges and operates from several locations Services B.V. (ICS) issues, promotes, manages and across the globe. ABN AMRO Commercial Finance processes more than 25 different credit cards in Holding B.V. is active via subsidiaries in the Netherlands, partnership with companies, including credit card France, Germany and the United Kingdom, providing transactions and offers other financial services, such as working capital funding on debtors and inventory. ABN revolving credit facilities;MoneYou B.V. operates as an AMRO Lease N.V. delivers asset-based solutions internet bank offering savings accounts and mortgages (equipment lease and finance) and is active in the Leadership and is active in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and the United Kingdom. Austria. Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. (ABN AMRO Verzekeringen) is an associate of ABN Group Functions AMRO Bank N.V (49%). Delta Lloyd N.V. holds a 51% The Functions business of ABN AMRO is supported by interest. ABN AMRO Verzekeringen offers life and non-life the following subsidiaries (this list is not exhaustive): ABN insurance products under the ABN AMRO brand.APG-AMRO Funding USA LLC is active in the US market, Governance ABN AMRO Pensioeninstelling N.V. (ABN AMRO issuing ABN AMRO’s US Dollar Commercial Paper funding Pensions) is a joint venture of ABN AMRO (70%) and APG for clients operating in the US and for clients with US (30%), the largest pension institution in the Netherlands. dollar loans.Stater N.V. offers administrative services ABN AMRO Pensions is a premium pension institution related to mortgage loans. Stater works for ABN AMRO (‘PPI’) which offers pension schemes without insurance and other parties supplying mortgage loans. based on long life or death. Annual Financial Statements Subsidiaries and international governance Private Banking ABN AMRO has designed group-wide policies and The Private Banking business of ABN AMRO is supported standards to ensure that all relevant parts of the in France and Germany by the following subsidiaries (this organisation adhere to governance principles and list is not exhaustive): Banque Neuflize OBC S.A. offers a requirements. Considering the varying business activities, private banking model based on an integrated approach local regulatory requirements, organisations and risk to private and commercial wealth articulated around frameworks of subsidiaries and branches, actual dedicated advisory and product offers. Bethmann Bank AG implementation of the group-wide policies and standards is a private bank and enjoys a strong local heritage and may differ between the subsidiaries and branches. All brand recognition in the German market. Bethmann entities in the international network adhere to ABN AMRO’s Other covers all major regions of Germany and offers all Private principles of risk governance and a moderate risk profile. Banking and Private Wealth Management related services; ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 235 Governance / Corporate Governance / Legal structure Introduction International governance is in place which meets the Subsidiary Heads and Functions in subsidiaries requirements of our international organisation and both in the international network: Strategy the home and host regulators. A review was performed in Local Heads of Functions of international subsidiaries (part 2016 to ensure alignment with the international growth of the specialised business) have direct hierarchical plans and changes in the regulatory environment. reporting lines to the CEO of the subsidiary locally and the Furthermore, we implemented changes to the governance Head of Functions of the subsidiary globally. There is also model for certain parts of Group Functions (Compliance, a reporting line with the country Head of Functions that is Legal, Risk, Central Information and Security Office, SIM, depending on the function hierarchical or an obligation Business Finance and HR) in the international network and to cooperate. The changes to hierarchical reporting lines subsidiaries in order to strengthen our governance and to also impact the decision-making process and alignment better connect our international locations and subsidiaries requirement related to hiring, firing, managing, performance within the bank at large. management & reward and the Functions budget. Functions in the bank’s international network: Functions in Dutch subsidiaries: Risk, funding & capital Direct hierarchical reporting lines have been implemented Direct hierarchical reporting lines between Heads of Group between the Heads of Group Functions and those Functions and those responsible for Functions in the responsible for local Functions, i.e. Compliance, Legal, bank’s Dutch subsidiaries have been introduced. The Central Information Security Office (CISO), Risk, SIM, hierarchical reporting line to the Head of the relevant Finance and Human Resources. Those responsible for subsidiary has remained in place. local Functions report directly to head office instead of through a regional reporting line. Commercially there are no changes. The hierarchical reporting lines to the relevant Country Executive/CEO have remained the same. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 236 Governance / Remuneration Introduction Remuneration This section sets out ABN AMRO’s remuneration for a specific group of senior employees. All relevant Strategy philosophy and principles for all our employees. The guidelines have been timely incorporated into ABN AMRO’s remuneration policy and practices for the Supervisory own policies and practices. We have also announced our Board, Managing Board and so-called Identified Staff updated strategy towards 2020, designed to create a more are discussed in greater detail in the subsequent parts agile and future-fit bank. We aim to combine the pillars of Business of this section. our strategy with the applicable remuneration restrictions. Overview Remuneration philosophy Financial institutions are subject to many guidelines with ABN AMRO’s long-term corporate strategy is based on respect to remuneration. The last major changes became four long-term strategic priorities. Our reward philosophy effective in 2014 and 2015 and specified more limitations and principles centre around these priorities and they will Risk, funding & capital to variable remuneration for all employees in the Dutch be further reflected in our remuneration policy and financial industry and an extension of the bonus prohibition performance management system from 2017 onwards. Remuneration philosophy Strategic priorities... ...reflected in remuneration philosophy Leadership 1. ABN AMRO looks closely at what kind of performance is being rewarded and uses a balanced set of KPIs to assess employee performance. Our clients increasingly Client-driven want more flexible and agile services. We will take this into account in our remuneration philosophy, as we believe that the team’s interests outweigh those of the individual, and that flexibility and agility are vital in order to stay ahead of our competition. Governance 2. We need a more flexible workforce and want our employees to be able to work any place, any time and in any way. We offer our staff the tools they need to do their job Invest in the future and to focus on their physical and mental well-being, so that they are well equipped to deal with the ever-changing environment. Annual Financial Statements 3. ABN AMRO adheres to all applicable rules and regulations on compensation. We pay our employees in line with the relevant market. Our total pay package is at the median Moderate risk profile of the market, but we have the possibility to differentiate to reward specific skills or talents. Our pay levels are positioned at internal and external equity via job grading and benchmarking. 4. Our performance management is strength-based as we emphasise the employee's ambition and expertise. Moreover, we aim to promote cost awareness and balance Sustainable growth a healthy payroll versus revenues. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 237 Governance / Remuneration Introduction Remuneration policy other entitlements. The Global Reward Policy also specifies rules with respect to those staff whose professional activities Responsible remuneration policy A Strategy ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog! could have a material impact on the bank’s risk profile. Within ABN AMRO this group is referred to as Identified Staff. Connectivity of material topic 14 Link to Important to these See material topics A separate Reward Policy, adopted in 2010, applies to strategy stakeholders and connectivity on members of the Managing Board. This policy is aligned page 19 with all relevant and applicable guidelines and regulations Business and reflects developments and recommendations of the EBA, the ECB, DNB, the AFM, the Banking Code and the Financial institutions are subject to many guidelines with Corporate Governance Code as they apply. respect to remuneration. We aim to pursue a responsible remuneration policy that remains within the regulatory Our annual performance management cycle aims to boundaries, such as limitations to variable remuneration and create a link between performance (realistic, sustainable Risk, funding & capital the bonus prohibition for a specific group of senior employees, results) and reward in such a way that costs change in line while taking into account the interests of all our stakeholders. with employees’ and the bank’s performance. We use a set of balanced financial and non-financial KPIs as well as Our remuneration principles are embedded in ABN AMRO’s qualitative and quantitative KPIs. For 2016 our Group Global Reward Policy. This policy is designed to support non-financial KPIs consisted of client centricity, Net ABN AMRO’s business strategy, objectives, values and Promoter Score and the Employee Engagement Survey. long-term interests. It provides a framework for effectively Financial KPIs used are RARORAC, the cost/income ratio managing reward and performance across the bank and and the CET1 ratio. There is also ample room to set is periodically updated and aligned with ABN AMRO’s individual and business-related KPIs. The table ‘Performance Leadership goals and the applicable guidelines and regulations. The indicators of Identified Staff’ provides more insight into Supervisory Board approves the general remuneration the 2016 KPI methodology used for Identified Staff. principles laid down in the Global Reward Policy and assesses the general principles and exceptions that relate In line with the general trend towards less hierarchy and to the applicable governance and/or internationally applicable more teamwork, we want to subject employees to fewer guidelines and regulations within the financial sector. checks and give them more empowerment. We aim to Governance The Supervisory Board therefore reviews the policy pursue a responsible remuneration policy, enabling our regularly, considering the company’s strategy and culture, employees to further develop their expertise, help us create risk awareness, targets and corporate values as well as a simpler, more agile organisation and give our staff more relevant market practice. It also takes into account external autonomy and responsibility, making their work more requirements with respect to governance, the international meaningful. Our employee performance management context and relevant market data. system will help keep us aligned with the bank’s financial Annual Financial Statements and non-financial priorities towards 2020. We expect to The Global Reward Policy applies within ABN AMRO at all make a further change to the KPIs in order to promote levels and in all countries in the bank’s international alignment with our goal and to create long-term value for network (including branch offices). Different starting points all our stakeholders. apply to the different layers of the bank’s workforce, but remuneration packages are structured in accordance with Changes in 2016 the applicable regulations and restrictions for the financial The EBA Guidelines on sound remuneration policies that sector. We position remuneration levels in principle around became effective as from 2017 have been incorporated the median of the relevant labour market and focus on into the Global Reward Policy 2017. Among other changes, keeping labour costs under control. A typical remuneration this has led to a more detailed description on the Other package for ABN AMRO employees consists of an annual implementation of the EBA RTS 2013/11 regarding base salary, annual variable remuneration and benefits and Identified Staff within ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 238 Governance / Remuneration Introduction In alignment with the remuneration guidelines, ABN of remuneration. The level of remuneration has not AMRO’s Variable Compensation Plan for Identified Staff changed since 2010. Since 10 April 2014, remuneration Strategy provides for a non-cash instrument portion. As from the for Supervisory Board committee memberships is limited 2016 performance year and as a result of ABN AMRO to two such memberships. Details on the remuneration being a listed company again, the Variable Compensation of members of the Supervisory Board in 2016 are provided Plan will provide for depositary receipts (DRs) instead of in note 36 to the Annual Financial Statements. performance certificates in order to achieve shareholder alignment. The use of the non-cash instrument portion in Managing Board remuneration Business the form of performance certificates will be continued The Global Reward Policy principles apply to all employees until 2016. All outstanding performance certificates will of the bank worldwide. A different governance applies to be phased out over time. the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board is responsible for proposing the policy and principles, which are subject Expected changes in 2017 to shareholder approval. In addition to setting policy, the As from 2018, new guidelines and directives will enter into Supervisory Board executes the remuneration policy for Risk, funding & capital force, such as: the Managing Board members. ÅÅ EBA Guidelines on remuneration of sales staff with effect from 2018; For the Managing Board, ABN AMRO has always aimed ÅÅ Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II); for a level of total compensation slightly below the median ÅÅ Capital Requirements Directive (CRD V). of the relevant markets. ABN AMRO used to define a peer ÅÅ The consequences of these guidelines and directives group of companies, i.e. both financial and non-financial will be implemented in the relevant remuneration companies in the Netherlands and Europe, against which principles during 2017. remuneration proposals for the Managing Board were assessed. Developments in previous years, however, Leadership The new management structure of ABN AMRO will make it difficult to properly assess the Managing Board’s become effective in 2017. As a consequence of the remuneration packages considering the many changes that introduction of the Executive Board and Executive have occurred in the banking industry in the Netherlands. Committee structure, the management layer below These changes have not necessarily impacted companies the Executive Committee will also be subject to change. operating in the general industry or the financial industry The new management structure is expected to lead outside the Netherlands. This currently makes benchmark Governance to adjustments in various fields such as remuneration, comparisons difficult, if not impossible. In 2016, as in 2015, governance and performance management. benchmark comparisons were not taken into consideration. Details on the remuneration of the individual Managing Remuneration principles for the Board members are provided in note 36 to the Annual Supervisory Board, Managing Board Financial Statements. Annual Financial Statements and other Identified Staff Annual fixed remuneration for 2016 Supervisory Board remuneration The annual base salary for the Managing Board follows The remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board is the developments in the collective labour agreement for set by the General Meeting of Shareholders based on a the banking industry (CAO Banken). This resulted in a 1% proposal of the Supervisory Board. The remuneration of increase for 2016. The annual base salary in 2016 amounted Supervisory Board members is proportional to the time to EUR 619,711 for the members of the Managing Board required to perform their duties linked to the membership and EUR 774,639 for the Chairman of the Managing Board. of the Supervisory Board and the relevant Board committees The annual salary of Mr van Dijkhuizen, following his and is independent of ABN AMRO’s financial results. appointment as CEO effective 1 January 2017, amounts Other ABN AMRO does not grant any variable remuneration or to EUR 712,668 in 2017. shares or options to Supervisory Board members in lieu ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 239 Governance / Remuneration Introduction Variable remuneration Mr van Dijkhuizen, the following was agreed upon his Although the remuneration package for the members of appointment as CEO on 1 January 2017: a contractual Strategy the Managing Board provides for a variable compensation right to a severance payment in the aforesaid event that is component, the Bonus Prohibition Act, which became equal to three months gross fixed salary. This supersedes effective in 2011, does not allow such compensation for Mr. van Dijkhuizen’s previous severance arrangement. board members of financial institutions that fall under the Ms Princen has been awarded a severance payment equal scope of this Act during the period of state support to three months gross fixed salary on the occasion of her through shareholding by the Dutch State. The members of departure as announced in October 2016. The other Business the Managing Board are therefore not entitled to receive Managing Board members that have announced their variable remuneration during the period of government resignation since 2016 have not received a severance ownership. This also applied for the 2016 performance payment. The Supervisory Board intends to apply a year. As a consequence, Board members do not severance payment equal to three months gross fixed participate in the Variable Compensation Plan that applies salary also for new members to be appointed to the to all Identified Staff within ABN AMRO. Managing Board (to be renamed ‘Executive Board’ in Risk, funding & capital the new management structure). Benefits The Chairman and members of the Managing Board Appointment period participate in the ABN AMRO pension schemes as The appointment term for Managing Board Members is applicable to all Dutch employees. The changes made to in principle set at four years. Six of the seven Managing the pension arrangement as agreed between the Board Members acting in 2016 were appointed with effect collective labour agreement partners in 2014 therefore from 10 April 2014, except for Mr van Dijkhuizen, who was also apply to all seven Managing Board members. appointed on 1 May 2013. The pensionable salary includes frozen compensation Leadership for pension contribution for all employees that were Managing Board 2016 performance employed before 2011. For pensionable salary up to The Supervisory Board assessed the Managing Board’s EUR 101,519 (the applicable threshold for 2016), a performance and concluded that the Managing Board and collective defined contribution (CDC) pension scheme its members satisfied the performance targets for 2016. applies. The standard retirement age is 67 years, the average income accrual is 1.875% and the employee As a consequence of the Bonus Prohibition Act, the Governance pension contribution is 5.5%. For pensionable salary members of the Managing Board are not eligible to receive in excess of EUR 101,519, employees will receive an a variable remuneration linked to their 2016 performance. allowance which can be used to build up a net pension in a defined contribution (DC) plan. The allowance in 2016 Identified Staff remuneration amounted to 33% and will be set annually using the yearRemuneration restrictions apply not only to the Managing end interest of the preceding calendar year. Board, but also to those staff whose professional activities Annual Financial Statements could have a material impact on the bank’s risk profile In addition to pension benefits, Managing Board members (Identified Staff). Within ABN AMRO the group are eligible for benefits such as the use of a company car of Identified Staff consists of: and a chauffeur. ÅÅ Members of the Managing and Supervisory Boards; ÅÅ Members of the Management Group; Severance ÅÅ Staff responsible for independent control functions; The current Managing Board members hold a contractual ÅÅ Other risk takers. The definition of the group of other right to a severance payment equal to one gross annual risk takers follows from credit, market and liquidity risk salary, that applies in the event that their employment analyses as undertaken annually by the Group Risk agreement is terminated at ABN AMRO’s initiative. With Management Team on the basis of RWA thresholds, Other membership of certain Risk Committees, the level of P&L budget and responsibilities; ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 240 Governance / Remuneration Introduction ÅÅ Other employees whose total remuneration takes them being people who have leading positions immediately into the same remuneration bracket as senior managers below the echelon of the day-to-day policymakers and Strategy and risk takers; who are responsible for natural persons whose work may ÅÅ Employees who qualify on the basis of the additional have a material impact on the bank’s risk profile in the qualitative and quantitative criteria as laid down in the period in which support is or was received, may also not EBA Guidelines. be granted any variable compensation. For the Managing Board members and the senior management described Composition of remuneration package above, the prohibition on payment of variable remuneration Business In general, the remuneration packages for Identified Staff will apply until the Dutch State no longer has an interest have been structured in accordance with the various in ABN AMRO. regulations and restrictions for the financial sector. A typical remuneration package for Identified Staff ABN AMRO’s collective labour agreement governs the consists of the following components: remuneration packages for Identified Staff based in the ÅÅ Annual base salary; Netherlands who are not Management Group members. Risk, funding & capital ÅÅ Annual variable remuneration (with deferred payout); For Identified Staff based outside the Netherlands, ÅÅ Benefits and other entitlements. ABN AMRO takes the relevant business dynamics (e.g. market conditions, local labour and tax legislation) ABN AMRO strives to position the level of total direct into account when deciding on the composition of the compensation for Management Group members just reward packages. For the last two categories of below market median levels. With effect from 2014, the employees, the total direct compensation is aimed variable compensation for Management Group members to be positioned around market median levels. was capped at 20% of base salary in anticipation of the Act on the Remuneration Policy for Financial Undertakings Performance is measured during a one-year performance Leadership (Wbfo), which came into force in 2015. With effect period at three levels: group, business unit and individual from 2015, the remuneration restrictions under the Bonus level, and by means of (partly) risk-adjusted financial Prohibition Act were extended to senior management as and non-financial performance indicators. defined in the Wbfo. Accordingly, these senior managers, Governance Performance indicators Identified Staff A Weighting Weighting Management Weighting non-Management Weighting Weighting Group Management Group non-Management Managing (Commercial Group (Group (Commercial Group (Group Board businesslines4 ) Functions) businesslines4 ) Functions) Group Financial: RARORAC, C/I ratio, Annual Financial Statements Common Equity Tier 1 ratio1 40.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% Group non-financial: Net Promoter Score, Enhance Client Centricity, Employee engagement 40.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% Business line financial: RARORAC, cost ceiling2 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% Business line non-financial: No specific KPIs prescribed 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% Individual: No specific KPIs prescribed, individual leadership3 10.0% 60.0% 60.0% 60.0% 60.0% Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 1 There is only one Group Financial KPI for MG and non-MG Group Functions: the CET1 ratio (10% weighting). 2 For R&PB and CB the financial KPI is divided into two KPIs. For other departments the weighting is 10% cost ceiling. For all Management Group members the minimum weighting of individual leadership is 30%. Other 3 4 Commercial business lines are comprised of Retail Banking, Private Banking and Corporate Banking. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 241 Governance / Remuneration Introduction Deferred payment Furthermore, this remuneration will only vest after an All variable remuneration awards for Identified Staff are explicit ex-post risk assessment: the ‘malus assessment’ Strategy subject to, and structured in accordance with, the Variable (see the Ex-post risk adjustment tools paragraph). Compensation Plan. Before any variable remuneration is granted, ABN AMRO applies an ex-ante risk assessment With effect from the awards reflecting the 2016 consisting of collective quantitative risk adjustment performance year, to be made in 2017, the instrument mechanisms (such as the solvency check) and a qualitative underlying the non-cash award will be replaced with an individual check (the gatekeeper). The gatekeeper award in the form of Restricted Share Units (RSUs) that Business procedure forms part of the performance management entitles the participant to a number of depositary receipts, framework and provides for an assessment of each reflecting the initial value of the award. One depositary individual Identified Staff member by the Control Functions receipt represents one share in ABN AMRO Group. The (Risk, Compliance and Audit) on the basis of several value of the non-cash instrument fluctuates with the behavioural elements. This assessment results in advice market price of the depositary receipts and its use will to the Managing Board, which ultimately decides on result in an increased alignment between remuneration Risk, funding & capital whether variable compensation can indeed be granted and shareholder value for all participants in the Variable to the Identified Staff member concerned. The Managing Compensation Plan. Board’s decision must be formally approved by the Supervisory Board based on the advice of the Remuneration, Variable income awards with respect to the performance Selection & Nomination Committee. Furthermore, the years up to and including 2015 will continue to use variable remuneration is awarded over time and split performance certificates as the underlying non-cash between an up-front portion (60%) and a deferred portion instrument. The value of the performance certificates (40%), with all portions equally divided between a cash fluctuates in line with the net asset value of ABN AMRO. and a non-cash instrument as shown in the following chart. Leadership A two-year retention period applies to both the depositary Variable remuneration receipts and the performance certificates, so that any (in %) unconditional instrument will need to be retained for an 100 additional two years. 100 20 80 20 Ex-post risk adjustment tools Governance 60 ABN AMRO also makes use of several ex-post risk 30 adjustment tools: the malus, clawback and personal 40 hedging or insurance. 30 20 The malus assessment is conducted by the control t=1 t=2 t=3 t=4 t=5 t=6 Total functions Risk, Compliance, HR, Finance and Audit and Annual Financial Statements Up-front cash1 Deferred non-cash 2, 3 any outcome is subject to the approval of the Managing Up-front non-cash1, 3 Deferred cash 2 Board and Supervisory Board. During the malus 1 The up-front payment (60% in total) is awarded in March following the relevant assessment, it is determined whether any new performance year. information is available which should prevent the vesting 2 The deferred award (40% in total) vests in three separate tranches respectively 1, 2 and 3 years after the end of the relevant performance year. of deferred parts, e.g. relating to: 3 All non-cash awards are subject to a two year retention period. ÅÅ Evidence of misconduct or serious error by the staff member (e.g. breach of code of conduct or other Up-front variable remuneration is awarded in the first internal rules, especially concerning risks); quarter of the year following the relevant performance ÅÅ The institution and/or the business unit subsequently year, while deferred variable remuneration vests in equal suffers a significant downturn in its financial Other instalments in the three years following the first payment. performance (specific indicators are to be used); ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 242 Governance / Remuneration Introduction ÅÅ The institution and/or the business unit in which the This means that one-third of each of the deferred variable staff member works suffers a significant failure of compensation awards with respect to the three Strategy risk management; performance years mentioned above will now be granted ÅÅ Significant changes in the institution’s economic or to the relevant Identified Staff members and that the regulatory capital base. two-year retention period will start. The Supervisory Board decided that on the basis of the The Supervisory Board has discretionary power to adjust any reassessment as performed by the Control Functions variable compensation downwards to a suitable amount if, Business there was no reason to apply a collective malus with in its opinion, payment of the compensation would be respect to the vesting of: unacceptable under the principle of reasonableness and ÅÅ The third tranche of deferrred variable compensation fairness. The Supervisory Board is also authorised to with respect to the 2013 performance period; reclaim any variable remuneration over any performance ÅÅ The second tranche of the deferred variable period if the award, calculation or payment was based on compensation with respect to the 2014 performance incorrect data or if the performance conditions were not Risk, funding & capital period; achieved in hindsight. The recipient will then be obliged ÅÅ The first tranche of the deferred variable compensation to repay the amount to the bank. with respect to the 2015 performance period. Lastly, personal hedging or insurance linked to The Supervisory Board decided to apply one individual remuneration and liability in order to circumvent the risk malus with respect to the vesting of the remaining control effects that have been embedded in the variable deferred variable compensation with respect to the 2014 compensation plan are not permitted. performance period. Leadership Details of Remuneration Remuneration details Identified Staff1 2016 2015 Number of FTEs Aggregated Number of FTEs Aggregated (in thousands) (Identified Staff) compensation (Identified Staff) compensation Governance Retail Banking 19 4,715 13 3,687 Private Banking 43 18,315 45 19,317 Corporate Banking 164 50,118 143 42,552 Group Functions2 136 30,812 128 30,314 Total 362 103,959 329 95,871 1 Compensation comprises fixed and variable compensation, sign-on, retention and severance pay over 2016. Certain remuneration elements are, due to their specific nature, paid out in cash Annual Financial Statements and are not or only partially subject to deferral. 2 Managing and Supervisory Board members are reported under Group Functions. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 243 Governance / Remuneration Introduction Number of FTEs (identified staff) Non-Management Aggregated (in thousands) Management Group Group compensation Strategy Fixed compensation over 2016 125 237 84,051 Variable compensation over 2016 89 218 19,908 of which in cash 6,472 of which in performance certificates 5,494 of which unconditional (up-front payment) 11,967 of which conditional (deferred payment) 7,942 Business Retention payments over 2016 1 7 1,422 Sign-on payments over 2016 Severance payments over 20161 1 3 1,130 1 Highest severance pay amounted EUR 375.000. Risk, funding & capital Remuneration details all employees1 allowance’, was discontinued in the course of 2015. For certain employees, variable compensation comprises a Variable compensation over 2016 as awarded to all component that is not subject to deferral and which, employees, including Identified Staff, amounted to based on the ‘EBA opinion on remuneration and EUR 169 million. Remuneration in millions (in FTEs) 1-1.5 1.5-2 2-2.5 2.5-3 3-3.5 3.5-4 4.5-5 >5 Leadership Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking 1 Group Functions1 1 1 Managing and Supervisory Board members are reported under Group Functions. Governance Remuneration in millions (in FTEs) 1-1.5 1.5-2 2-2.5 2.5-3 3-3.5 3.5-4 4.5-5 >5 Managing Board 1 Management Group Non-Management Group 1 Annual Financial Statements The ratio of the mean annual employee compensation and the total annual compensation of the Chief Executive Officer in 2016 was 11.4 (calculated as CEO compensation divided by the mean employee compensation). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 244 Governance / Employee representation Introduction Employee representation Strategy The Employee Council met with the Managing Board on several occasions in 2016 to discuss plans being made based on the updated strategy and the consequences for staff. We used employee input more so than in previous years, as employees are an important stakeholder of the bank and of the bank’s Business works councils. Risk, funding & capital Main subjects discussed in 2016 The employee representation bodies asked staff for input. Strategy update Employees were invited to submit suggestions for how The Employee Council got involved in consultations with the bank could save on costs and how the bank could the Managing Board at an early stage – in March 2016 – to boost income. The Employee Council also organised a discuss the plans being developed for an updated strategy hearing during which employees could tell members of and to provide input for, and feedback on, the plans. the Employee Council in person which subjects they felt the Employee Council should include in its advice. The employee representation bodies presented the Employees also posted reactions to blogs and news items results of a number of staff surveys they had conducted that had been published by the Employee Council on the Leadership earlier in the year. Employees had been invited in April and bank’s internal collaboration platform (Connections). May to take a survey on four subjects: Vision of the future, Pride and connection, Client centricity, and Leadership The Employee Council is pleased that, besides cost& Self-directed teams. More than 2,700 employees cutting measures, the plans presented during the completed the survey. The Functions Council also asked announcement of the third-quarter results included plans former and current council members and members of the for growth in new markets, mainly in markets and sectors Governance Managing and Supervisory Board how they view the in which we are already active. We believe these plans, future of the business line Functions and used this input to plus the plans to make banking faster and easier with give management specific feedback on its intended plans. digital solutions, offer good prospects for the future of the bank. This perspective is needed to keep employees Another programme initiated by the bank in 2016 involved motivated. It is important to show staff what lies ahead, further simplifying the organisation in order to fund new especially at a time when we are dealing with a declining Annual Financial Statements growth initiatives. This programme will mainly affect the number of employees: around 3,000 employees (both bank’s support and control activities. The Employee internal and external) will leave the bank in the coming Council pressed for an overarching request for advice years, as announced in 2016.1 This number excludes describing the general contours and premises for all new hires. subsequent requests for advice. The overarching request for advice is designed to ensure that this programme is The Employee Council is also pleased with the fact that limited to actually simplifying the organisation rather than the bank has defined its purpose. We endorse the newly being a cost-reduction exercise: all subsequent requests defined purpose: Creating space for dreams and ambitions. for advice for the different business lines must adhere to Driven by passion, guided by expertise. We will work the defined contours and premises. We are pleased that together (Management Board, Supervisory Board and Other management embraced this approach. 1 The decline in the number of FTEs is a combination of a reduction of internal and external FTEs and excludes new hires and the impact of already existing programmes (TOPS 2020 and Retail Digitalisation). The net impact of all programmes and new hires for internal FTEs is approximately -10% and external FTEs approximately 25-30% by 2020 vs YE2015 as communicated in Q3 2016. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 245 Governance / Employee representation Introduction sessions held by the employee representation bodies. We experience this involvement as very pleasant and motivating. Changes in the Managing Board Strategy The Supervisory Board reached agreement with Mr Gerrit Zalm regarding his departure effective 1 January 2017. Mr Zalm was important for the bank during the integration. He brought ABN AMRO into calmer waters and guided the Business bank during the IPO. He was the consultative partner on Margot van Kempen behalf of management for the Employee Council in 2016. Chair of the Although the employee representation bodies and the Employee Council Chairman of the Managing Board did not always see eye to eye, he was always open to conducting a constructive dialogue. We thank Mr Zalm for his valuable contribution. We Risk, funding & capital Employee Council) to explore how the purpose will affect are pleased with the appointment of Mr Kees van Dijkhuizen our behaviour, our service and our added value in society. as his successor. The Employee Council knows him, in his Following several weeks of consultations on the draft text, capacity as CFO of ABN AMRO, as a professional, honest the Employee Council received an overarching request for and pleasant manager. He is critical when necessary, yet advice in December 2016. This overarching request is listens carefully to others’ opinions. The Employee Council about the necessity of becoming faster and more flexible, looks forward to working together with Mr van Dijkhuizen. prompting the bank to adopt agile principles. Approximately 800 to 1,100 employees are expected to lose their jobs The Supervisory Board reached agreement with under this programme, and 6,000 employees (external, Ms Caroline Princen regarding her departure from the Leadership Vendors and internal) will make the transition to agile Managing Board effective 1 January 2017. Ms Princen working. As with the programme of simplifying the was responsible for setting up the People, Regulations organisation, the overarching request for advice defines & Identity department during the integration of the two the contours and guidelines. The subsequent requests for banks. She was the Managing Board member responsible advice for the different business lines can then be tested for consultations with the employee representation bodies against the contours and guidelines agreed upon. until 1 January 2017. In close consultation with her we Governance renewed the structure and procedures of the employee representation bodies. We thank Ms Princen for her valuable Consultation with the Managing Board contributions in the past years to the bank and for her and Supervisory Board sponsorship of employee representation. Many developments took place within the Supervisory Board and Managing Board in 2016. Employee representation in 2017 Annual Financial Statements 2017 will be largely devoted to the programmes initiated Changes in the Supervisory Board in 2016: Simplifying the organisation and the agile way of 2016 was a year of renewal in the Supervisory Board. This working. The different business lines will be involved in positively affected collaboration between the Employee subsequent requests for advice arising from the overarching Council and the Supervisory Board: members of the request for advice. At the end of 2017, we will also prepare Supervisory Board are all committed to taking the interests for the elections for new council members in the spring of of employees into account when considering the interests 2018. And lastly, we will explore how agile working will affect of the bank. In practice, this means that the Supervisory how we work and examine how future-proof this model is. Board members will inform and consult with the Employee Council whenever possible. They also participate in council Other meetings, consultations and permanent education (PE) Margot van Kempen Chair of the Employee Council ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 246 Governance / Employee representation Introduction The importance of employee representation the council of the business line where they work. A ALTIJD 5x basisregel hoog! Members are expected to be able to formulate and Strategy express constructive, critical opinions. Connectivity of material topic 11 Link to Important to these See material topics In addition to elected members of the councils, ABN AMRO strategy stakeholders and connectivity on also works with participants – employees who participate page 18 in the councils on a project basis. Any employee may state that they want to work with the councils as a participant. Business They will be deployed to projects based on their expertise Employee representation is part of ABN AMRO’s operations and preference, for example handling a request for advice – not only because it is a legal requirement, but because it or being involved in other issues. They support the councils promotes sustainable, effective decision-making. The by providing information and analyses, advising and Managing Board appreciates staff’s constructive, critical conducting consultations. In this way, all of the bank’s views of the organisation because they help our bank grow. employees can exercise influence on decisions and Risk, funding & capital support the councils. Every employee who has been employed by ABN AMRO for at least one year may put himself or herself forward as Each business line has its own council. Bank-wide topics a candidate for membership of the Employee Council are handled by the Employee Council, which includes during elections. The current council formally began representatives from all business lines and a number of operating on 1 January 2016 and its term runs until March subsidiaries. Employee representation is supported by a 2018. Members are elected by employees and are part of secretariat which is made possible by the management. R&PB council CB council TOPS council FUNCTIONS council Leadership 13 members 13 members 11 members 9 members ACF council Alfam council Employee Council Governance 17 members Participants pool Subsidiary councils (ICS, Stater, Lease, Beter) Annual Financial Statements Secretariat Employee Participation In anticipation of a more agile network organisation which overarching requests for advice. We joined forces, in is currently being created, the employee representation terms of both subject matter and manpower, to maximise councils took an important step in 2016 in working the quality of our advice. together more intensively, for example with the Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 247 Governance / Employee representation Introduction Employee representation bodies in the Netherlands are council. During this process, staff are involved, agreed entitled to the right to be consulted and the right of formats are used, discussions with management take Strategy consent1. Before the councils give their advice or a place and additional agreements are made. To ensure reaction, the management and the councils and their continuous improvement, this process is evaluated after participants conduct consultations on the details of, and each advice by an questionaire to the staff involved. motivation behind, proposed decisions. In 2016 a total of 124 formal requests for advice, requests for consent and European Staff Council information memos were submitted to one of the ABN AMRO also has a European Staff Council consisting Business employee representation councils. of representatives from the local employee councils in Luxembourg, Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom, The quality of each response given by the council is a France and the Netherlands. The European Staff Council result of the advice process from the management that meets four times a year, two of which with the involves the councils (and participants on this subject) in management. an early stage until the final decision is taken by the entire Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 1 More information is provided in ‘Employee council governance’ in the Governance section. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Introduction Strategy Business Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 248 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 ﻿ Introduction Annual Financial Statements 2016 Strategy Consolidated income statement 250 Business 18 Fair value of financial instruments carried at fair value302 Consolidated statement 19 Loans and receivables-banks 312 of comprehensive income 251 20 Loans and receivables-customers 313 21 Fair value of financial instruments Consolidated statement not carried at fair value314 Risk, funding & capital of financial position 252 22 ABN AMRO group structure 316 23 Property and equipment, goodwill Consolidated statement and other intangible assets324 of changes in equity 253 24 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale329 Consolidated statement 25 Other assets 330 of cash flows 255 26 Due to banks 330 27 Due to customers 331 Notes to the 28 Issued debt and subordinated liabilities 332 Leadership Annual Financial Statements 257 29 Provisions 333 1 Accounting policies 257 30 Pension and other post-retirement benefits 338 2 Segment reporting 265 31 Other liabilities 341 3 Overview of financial assets 32 Equity attributable to shareholders and liabilities by measurement base275 and other components of equity341 4 Net interest income 276 33 Transferred, pledged, encumbered Governance 5 Net fee and commission income 277 and restricted assets343 6 Net trading income 279 34 Commitments and contingent liabilities 347 7 Other income 280 35 Related parties 354 8 Personnel expenses 281 36 Remuneration of Managing Board 9 General and administrative expenses 281 and Supervisory Board357 10 Income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities 282 37 Employee share option and share Annual Financial Statements 11 Earnings per share 288 purchase plans  360 12 Cash and balances at central banks 289 38 Post balance sheet events 360 13 Financial assets and liabilities held for trading 289 14 Derivatives 290 Statutory financial statements 15 Hedge accounting 292 ABN AMRO Group N.V. 361 16 Financial investments 299 17 Securities financing 301 Other information 366 Other Certain IFRS disclosures in the Risk, funding & capital information section are labelled as ‘Audited’ in the respective headings. These disclosures are an integral part of these Annual Financial Statements and are covered by the Audit opinion. 250 Annual Financial Statements 2016 Introduction Consolidated income statement (in millions) Note 2016 2015 Income Strategy Interest income 12,651 13,207 Interest expense 6,383 7,130 Net interest income 4 6,267 6,076 Fee and commission income 3,082 3,061 Business Fee and commission expense 1,340 1,233 Net fee and commission income 5 1,743 1,829 Net trading income 6 -211 99 Share of result in equity accounted investments 55 1 Other operating income 7 373 450 Operating income 8,227 8,455 Risk, funding & capital Expenses Personnel expenses 8 2,777 2,492 General and administrative expenses 9 2,682 2,559 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 23 198 177 Operating expenses 5,657 5,228 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 114 505 Total expenses 5,771 5,734 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 2,456 2,722 Leadership Income tax expense 10 650 798 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,806 1,924 Attributable to: Owners of the company 1,805 1,919 Non-controlling interests 1 5 Governance Earnings per share (in euros) Basic/diluted earnings per ordinary share1 11 1.87 2.03 1 Earnings per share consist of profit for the year excluding coupons attributable to AT1 capital securities and results attributable to non-controlling interests divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 251 Annual Financial Statements 2016 Introduction Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (in millions) 2016 2015 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,806 1,924 Strategy Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 38 -6 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement before taxation 38 -6 Business Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 10 -4 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement after taxation 28 -2 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement (Un)realised gains/(losses) currency translation 31 101 (Un)realised gains/(losses) available-for-sale 112 189 (Un)realised gains/(losses) cash flow hedge 284 222 Risk, funding & capital Share of other comprehensive income of associates 31 11 Other changes -4 Other comprehensive income for the period before taxation 457 519 Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified to the income statement 100 101 Other comprehensive income for the period after taxation 357 418 Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period after taxation1 2,191 2,340 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the company 2,190 2,335 Leadership Non-controlling interests 1 5 1 Including EUR -4 million related to Other reserves in 2015. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 252 Annual Financial Statements 2016 Introduction Consolidated statement of financial position (in millions) Note 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Assets Strategy Cash and balances at central banks 12 21,861 26,195 Financial assets held for trading 13 1,607 1,706 Derivatives 14 14,384 19,138 Financial investments 16 45,497 40,542 Securities financing 17 17,589 20,062 Business Loans and receivables-banks 19 13,485 15,680 Residential mortgages 20 152,069 151,543 Consumer loans 20 12,106 14,587 Corporate loans 20 96,058 103,889 Other loans and receivables-customers 20 7,445 6,357 Equity accounted investments 22 765 778 Property and equipment Risk, funding & capital 23 1,418 1,366 Goodwill and other intangible assets 23 251 263 Assets held for sale 24 3,481 32 Tax assets 10 415 345 Other assets 25 6,050 4,893 Total assets 394,482 407,373 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 13 791 459 Derivatives 14 14,526 22,425 Leadership Securities financing 17 11,625 11,372 Due to banks 26 13,419 14,630 Demand deposits 27 119,848 134,632 Saving deposits 27 92,740 94,005 Time deposits 27 16,169 18,555 Other due to customers 27 -0 160 Issued debt 28 81,278 76,207 Governance Subordinated liabilities 28 11,171 9,708 Provisions 29 1,672 1,256 Liabilities held for sale 24 5,667 Tax liabilities 10 134 650 Other liabilities 31 6,503 5,729 Total liabilities 375,544 389,789 Equity Annual Financial Statements Share capital 940 940 Share premium 12,970 12,970 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 4,037 3,059 Other comprehensive income -9 -394 Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 17,939 16,575 Capital securities 993 993 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 5 17 Total equity 32 18,937 17,584 Total liabilities and equity 394,482 407,373 Committed credit facilities 34 27,299 21,559 Other Guarantees and other commitments 34 15,873 13,868 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 253 Annual Financial Statements 2016 Introduction Consolidated statement of changes in equity Strategy Other reserves Other Net profit/ including compre(loss) NonShare Share retained hensive attributable to Capital controlling Total (in millions) capital premium earnings income shareholders Total securities interests equity Balance at 1 January 2015 940 12,970 635 -814 1,134 14,865 12 14,877 Business Total comprehensive income1 -4 420 1,919 2,335 5 2,340 Transfer 1,134 -1,134 Dividend -625 -625 -625 Increase/(decrease) of capital 993 993 Other changes in equity -1 -1 Balance at Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2015 940 12,970 1,140 -394 1,919 16,575 993 17 17,584 Total comprehensive income 385 1,805 2,190 1 2,191 Transfer 1,919 -1,919 Dividend -790 -790 -12 -802 Interest AT 1 capital securities -41 -41 -41 Other changes in equity1 5 5 -0 5 Balance at 31 December 2016 940 12,970 2,233 -9 1,805 17,939 993 5 18,937 Leadership 1 Including correction related to previous years EUR 5 million related to Other reserves (2015: EUR -4 million). Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 254 Annual Financial Statements 2016 Introduction Other comprehensive income is specified as follows: Remeasurement Share of OCI Strategy gains/(losses) on Currency of associates post-retirement translation AvailableCash flow and joint (in millions) benefit plans reserve for-sale reserve hedge reserve ventures Total Balance at 1 January 2015 -38 36 329 -1,223 82 -814 Net gains/(losses) arising during the period -6 101 206 190 11 502 Less: Net realised gains/(losses) Business included in income statement 17 -32 -15 Net gains/(losses) in equity -6 101 189 222 11 517 Related income tax -4 45 55 97 Balance at 31 December 2015 -41 137 473 -1,056 93 -394 Net gains/(losses) arising during Risk, funding & capital the period 38 31 234 297 31 630 Less: Net realised gains/(losses) included in income statement 122 13 136 Net gains/(losses) in equity 38 31 112 284 31 495 Related income tax 10 1 28 71 110 Balance at 31 December 2016 -13 166 557 -843 124 -9 Total comprehensive income amounted to EUR 2,191 million (2015: EUR 2,340 million). Leadership The total amount contains EUR 1,805 million realised profit (2015: EUR 1,919 million), EUR 385 million other comprehensive income (2015: EUR 420 million) and EUR 1 million from non-controlling interests (2015: EUR 5 million). Transfer includes the allocation of the profit/loss of the prior period to the other reserves. Governance The total dividend paid to ordinary shareholders in 2016 was EUR 790 million (2015: EUR 625 million). This contains the final dividend 2015 of EUR 414 million and the interim dividend 2016 of EUR 376 million (2015: EUR 275 million). Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures is related to the movement in other comprehensive income of the associates and joint ventures of ABN AMRO. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 255 Annual Financial Statements 2016 Introduction Consolidated statement of cash flows (in millions) 2016 2015 Profit/(loss) for the period 1,806 1,924 Strategy Adjustments on non-cash items included in profit: (Un)realised gains/(losses) -402 -101 Share of profits in associates and joint ventures -59 -29 Depreciation, amortisation and accretion 452 314 Provisions and impairment losses Business 1,103 993 Income tax expense 650 798 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Assets held for trading 99 7,409 Derivatives-assets 4,754 6,053 Securities financing-assets 2,791 -159 Loans and receivables-banks Risk, funding & capital 997 6,880 Residential mortgages -637 1,698 Consumer loans 2,381 926 Corporate loans 8,063 10,352 Other loans and receivables-customers -982 664 Other assets -817 15 Liabilities held for trading 331 -3,490 Derivatives-liabilities -7,725 -8,014 Securities financing-liabilities 54 -3,359 Due to banks -1,195 -1,220 Leadership Demand deposits -14,404 -1,677 Saving deposits -1,226 4,099 Time deposits -2,230 806 Other due to customers -160 17 Liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts -402 -142 Net changes in all other operational assets and liabilities 1,417 850 Dividend received from associates 101 56 Governance Income tax paid -1,324 -268 Cash flow from operating activities -6,564 25,395 continued > Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 256 Annual Financial Statements 2016 Introduction (in millions) 2016 2015 Investing activities: Purchases of financial investments -19,123 -17,123 Proceeds from sales and redemptions of financial investments 15,114 18,446 Strategy Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired), associates and joint ventures -28 -25 Divestments of subsidiaries (net of cash sold), associates and joint ventures 56 132 Purchases of property and equipment -405 -282 Proceeds from sales of property and equipment 100 127 Purchases of intangible assets -37 -42 Business Cash flow from investing activities -4,323 1,233 Financing activities: Proceeds from the issuance of debt 32,635 35,244 Repayment of issued debt -27,872 -37,126 Proceeds from subordinated liabilities issued 2,660 2,839 Repayment of subordinated liabilities issued -1,363 -1,740 Risk, funding & capital Proceeds from capital securities 1 993 Dividends paid to the owners of the parent company -790 -625 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -12 Repayment of capital (including non-controlling interests) -1 Cash flow from financing activities 5,260 -416 Net increase/(decrease) of cash and cash equivalents -5,626 26,212 Cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January 30,551 4,212 Effect of exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents 29 127 Leadership Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 24,954 30,551 Supplementary disclosure of operating cash flow information Interest paid 7,303 6,904 Interest received 13,248 14,024 Dividend received excluding associates 22 55 (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Governance Cash and balances at central banks 21,861 26,195 Loans and receivables banks (less than 3 months)1 3,093 4,357 Total cash and cash equivalents 24,954 30,551 1 Loans and receivables banks with an original maturity less than 3 months is included in loans and receivables-banks. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 257 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Strategy 1 Accounting policies Business The notes to the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements, including the audited information in the Risk, funding & capital section, are an integral part of these Annual Financial Statements. This section describes ABN AMRO Bank’s significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates or judgements relating to the Annual Financial Statements. If an accounting policy or a critical accounting estimate relates to a specific note, it is included within the relevant note. Risk, funding & capital Corporate information ABN AMRO Group N.V. (referred to as ABN AMRO Group) is the parent company of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and a related consolidated group of companies (referred to as the Group or ABN AMRO). ABN AMRO Group is a public limited liability company, incorporated under Dutch law on 18 December 2009, and registered at Gustav Mahlerlaan 10, 1082 PP Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Chamber of Commerce number 34370515). As at 31 December 2016, all shares in the capital of ABN AMRO Group are held by two foundations: Leadership NLFI and STAK AAG. On that date, NLFI held 70% and STAK AAG held 30% of the shares in the issued capital of ABN AMRO Group. Both foundations have issued depositary receipts for shares in ABN AMRO Group. Only STAK AAG’s depositary receipts are issued with the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group and traded on Euronext Amsterdam. ABN AMRO provides a broad range of financial services to retail, private and corporate banking Governance clients. These activities are conducted primarily in the Netherlands and selectively abroad. The Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of ABN AMRO Group for the annual period ended 31 December 2016 incorporate financial information of ABN AMRO Group N.V., its controlled entities, interests in associates and joint ventures. The Annual Financial Statements were prepared by the Managing Board and authorised for issue by the Supervisory Board and Managing Board Annual Financial Statements on 14 March 2017. Statement of compliance The Consolidated Annual Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the European Union (EU). They also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Title 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, as far as applicable. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 258 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Basis of preparation The Consolidated Annual Financial Statements are prepared on the basis of a mixed valuation Strategy model as follows: ÅÅ Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss; ÅÅ Financial assets and liabilities held for trading or designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss; ÅÅ Available-for-sale financial assets and investments in associates of a private equity nature are valued at fair value; Business ÅÅ Other financial assets (including loans and receivables) and liabilities are valued at amortised cost less any impairment, if applicable; ÅÅ The carrying value of assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost included in a fair value hedge relationship is adjusted with respect to fair value changes resulting from the hedged risk; ÅÅ Non-financial assets and liabilities are generally stated at historical cost; ÅÅ Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Risk, funding & capital The Annual Financial Statements are prepared under the going concern assumption. The Annual Financial Statements are presented in euros, which is the reporting currency of ABN AMRO, rounded to the nearest million (unless otherwise stated). Disclosures To combine disclosures where possible and to reduce duplication, we have integrated some IFRS disclosures into our Managing Board report. These are: ÅÅ IFRS 7 Risk disclosures of financial instruments. These are disclosed in the Risk, funding and Leadership capital section; ÅÅ IAS 1 Risk and financial instrument disclosures. These are part of the Risk, funding and capital section IFRS disclosures in the Risk, funding and capital section on pages 91 to 204 are labelled as ‘audited’. These disclosures are an integral part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements and are covered by the Audit opinion. Changes in accounting policies Governance During 2016 ABN AMRO adopted the following amendments and interpretations: ÅÅ IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements; ÅÅ IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Disclosure Initiative; ÅÅ Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle; Annual Financial Statements ÅÅ IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation; ÅÅ IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations. Implementation of these amendments has no, or no material, effect on the Annual Financial Statements of ABN AMRO Group. New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective The following amendments to IFRSs are issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU, but are not yet effective. The amendments are required to be applied as from 1 January 2018. Note that only Other the amendments to IFRSs that are relevant for ABN AMRO are discussed on the next page. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 259 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction In June 2016 the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions. The issuance consists of three amendments Strategy that clarify how to account for certain types of share-based payment transactions. Based on our initial analysis performed the amendments will not have any impact. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was endorsed by the EU in November 2016. This endorsement means that IFRS 9 will apply to ABN AMRO from 1 January 2018 onwards. Business IFRS 9 will replace the current standard for recognition and measurement of financial instruments (IAS 39). ABN AMRO is well on its way in implementing IFRS 9. IFRS 9 will have an impact in two areas: classification and measurement of financial instruments and impairment. ABN AMRO has thus far chosen not to apply the IFRS 9 guidance on hedge accounting as this does not cover the majority of the bank’s hedging programmes (the so-called macro-hedge). Risk, funding & capital The impact on the financial statements is expected to be largest for the changes to the impairment model. IFRS 9 replaces the ‘incurred loss’ model with the ‘expected credit loss model’ which is designed to be more forward-looking. The result of this forward-looking approach will be higher loan loss impairments and corresponding lower equity. In 2016 ABN AMRO developed the key elements of the IFRS 9 expected loss calculation. Separate IFRS 9 expected loss models have been developed (mainly an expected loss model for instruments valued at amortised cost and an expected loss model for instruments valued at fair value through OCI). The IFRS 9 expected loss model is developed alongside the stress testing methodology and incorporates forward-looking information based on the concepts of this methodology. In general, three different scenarios of future economic Leadership developments will be incorporated in a probability weighted manner into the IFRS 9 expected loss calculation. These scenarios will be approved by the Scenario and Stress Testing Committee. ABN AMRO has aligned its forward-looking scenarios with those used in the budgeting process. The bank also made key choices in determining when credit risk of financial assets has increased significantly. The probability of default and certain qualitative triggers will be used to determine if credit risk has increased significantly. Furthermore, in general the bank will apply the backstop of Governance 30 days overdue as a trigger of significantly increased credit risk. Further calibration of these triggers is still needed and ABN AMRO is using an IFRS 9 impact assessment tool to carry out this calibration. The state of the economy and the related uncertainty at 1 January 2018 is relevant to the impact of IFRS 9 on the CET 1 ratio. With the implementation of IFRS 9, the currently expected loss shortfall of EUR 298 million as reported in fully-loaded CET1 is expected to dampen the impact of IFRS 9. Annual Financial Statements With a fully-loaded CET1 ratio of 17.0%, ABN AMRO feels confident the bank is sufficiently capitalised for the implementation of IFRS 9. The bank is in favour of the debate to neutralise the impact of IFRS 9 on CET1 capital and supports the discussions on the development of the regulatory expected loss concept. In 2016 ABN AMRO finalised its analysis for classification and measurement. Reclassifications of financial instruments are limited and mainly result in a transfer of specific assets from amortised cost measurement to fair value through profit or loss measurement. The impact of these revised classifications on the CET1 ratio is expected to be limited. ABN AMRO has thus far chosen to continue to measure its current available-for-sale bonds portfolio at fair value through equity (other Other comprehensive income). The reported available-for-sale reserve of EUR 557 million will therefore continue to be reported as part of equity under IFRS 9 and hence will not impact CET1 ratios. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 260 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction In 2017 ABN AMRO will focus on finalising the interaction of the IFRS 9 impairment model components, finalising the appropriate governance structure going forward, transferring the IFRS 9 Strategy implementation from the IFRS 9 project to business as usual and performing a parallel run. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers. This new standard establishes a comprehensive framework for determining when to recognise revenue and how much revenue to recognise. It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. ABN AMRO is currently assessing the impact of the new standard. New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet endorsed Business The following new or revised standards and amendments have been issued by the IASB, but are not yet endorsed by the European Union and are therefore not open for early adoption. Note that only the amendments to IFRSs that are relevant for ABN AMRO are discussed below. Risk, funding & capital IFRS 16 Leases. The new standard on leases was issued by the IASB in January 2016 and will become effective on 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and removes the distinction between ‘Operational’ and ‘Financial’ lease for lessees. The requirements for lessor accounting remain largely unchanged. ABN AMRO is currently assessing the impact of the new standard. IAS 12 Income taxes: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised losses. The amendment clarifies how to account for deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value. ABN AMRO will start its impact assessment in 2017. Leadership ​​​​​​​Offsetting As a result of an IFRIC rejection notice of 6 April 2016, ABN AMRO adjusted its accounting policy for offsetting. The bank offsets balances if it is legally entitled to set off the recognised amounts and intends to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The IFRIC rejection notice provides additional offsetting guidance for cash pooling agreements. Governance The adjusted offsetting policy is applied consistently to all assets and liabilities, if applicable. In order to meet the revised offsetting requirements ABN AMRO adjusted the offsetting procedures for most notional cash pooling agreements throughout 2016. Historic figures have been adjusted accordingly. Some agreements were replaced with alternative arrangements. As a result, notional cash pooling balances that cannot be supported with a settlement of those balances closely after the reporting date are presented gross. At year-end 2016 this resulted in an increase of EUR 1.7 billion in the loans Annual Financial Statements and receivables-customers balance and the due to customers balance (2015: EUR 15.5 billion). The majority of the EUR 13.8 billion decrease in loans and receivables-customers and due to customers over 2016 can be explained by adjusted offsetting procedures. In addition to the offsetting changes on notional cash pooling, ABN AMRO concluded that offsetting is no longer applied to bank saving mortgages. As a result, bank saving mortgages are presented gross. Historic figures have been adjusted accordingly. This resulted in an increase in the loans and receivables-customers balance and the due to customers balance of EUR 1.8 billion at 31 December 2016 (2015: EUR 1.5 billion). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 261 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise its judgement in the Strategy process of applying ABN AMRO’s accounting policies and to make estimates and assumptions concerning the future. Actual results may differ from those estimates and assumptions. Accounting policies for most significant areas requiring management to make judgements and estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures are made in the following sections: Impairment losses on loans and receivables Risk, funding & capital section Business Fair value of financial instruments note 18 Income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities note 10 Impairment of available-for-sale instruments note 16 ​​​​​​​Provisions note 29 Assessment of risks and rewards Risk, funding & capital Whenever ABN AMRO is required to assess risks and rewards, when considering the recognition and derecognition of assets or liabilities and the consolidation and deconsolidation of subsidiaries, ABN AMRO may sometimes be required to use judgement. Although management uses its best knowledge of current events and actions in making assessments of expected risks and rewards, actual risks and rewards may ultimately differ. Significant accounting policies Leadership Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. include the financial statements of the parent company and its controlled entities. It incorporates the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and its subsidiaries. Non‑controlling interests (held by third parties) in both equity and results of group companies are presented separately in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsidiaries are included using the same reporting period and consistent accounting policies. Governance Intercompany balances and transactions, and any related unrealised gains and losses, are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are Annual Financial Statements eliminated to the extent of ABN AMRO’s interest in the entities. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment in the asset transferred. Foreign currency The Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in euros, which is the presentation and functional currency of ABN AMRO. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 262 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Foreign currency differences ABN AMRO applies IAS 21 The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates. Transactions in foreign Strategy currencies are translated into euros at the rate prevailing on the transaction date. Foreign currency balances of monetary items are translated into euros at the period end exchange rates. Exchange gains and losses on such balances are recognised in the income statement. The Group’s foreign operations may have different functional currencies. The functional currency is the currency that best reflects the economic substance of the underlying event and circumstances relevant to that entity. Prior to consolidation (or equity accounting), the assets and liabilities of non-euro operations are Business translated at the closing rate and items of the income statement and other comprehensive income are translated into euros at the rate prevailing on the transaction dates. Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign operations are included in the currency translation reserve within equity. These are transferred to the income statement when the Group loses control, joint control or significant influence over the foreign operation. Risk, funding & capital Financial assets and liabilities ABN AMRO classifies financial assets and liabilities based on the business purpose of entering into these transactions. Classification of financial assets Financial assets are classified as assets held for trading, financial investments or loans and receivables and are based on the criteria in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement. Their measurement and income recognition depends on the classification of the financial assets. Leadership The following four groups are identified: ÅÅ Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They generally arise when money or services are directly provided to a client with no intention of trading or selling the loan. They are initially measured at fair value (including transaction costs) and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, with the periodic amortisation recorded in the income statement. Governance ÅÅ Held-to-maturity investments are non‑derivative financial assets that consist of instruments quoted on an active market with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity for which the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity is demonstrated. They are initially measured at fair value (including transaction costs) and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, with the periodic amortisation recorded in the income statement. ÅÅ Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include: Annual Financial Statements ÅÅ financial assets held for trading; ÅÅ financial assets that ABN AMRO irrevocably designated at initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss when the instruments are held to reduce an accounting mismatch, are managed on the basis of its fair value or include terms that have substantive derivative characteristics in nature. ÅÅ Available-for-sale financial assets are those assets that are otherwise not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss or financial assets held for trading. They are initially measured at fair value with subsequent changes recognised in other comprehensive income. Other If ABN AMRO reclassifies a financial asset out of held for trading, the financial asset is reclassified at its fair value and this fair value becomes the new amortised cost. On the same date a new effective interest is calculated. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 263 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Classification of financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as liabilities held for trading, due to banks, due to customers, Strategy debt certificates, subordinated liabilities and other borrowings. Their measurement and recognition in the income statement depends on the classification of the financial liabilities. ÅÅ Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include: ÅÅ financial liabilities held for trading; ÅÅ financial liabilities that ABN AMRO has irrevocably designated at initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss when the instruments are held to reduce an accounting Business mismatch are managed on the basis of its fair value or include terms that have substantive derivative characteristics in nature. Other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method with the periodic amortisation recorded in the income statement. The initial measurement of other financial liabilities is at fair value, including transaction costs. Risk, funding & capital Classification of assets and liabilities held for trading A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if it is: ÅÅ acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near term; ÅÅ part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit taking; ÅÅ a trading derivative (except for a derivative that is a designated and effective hedging instrument). Recognition and derecognition Leadership Traded instruments are recognised on the trade date, defined as the date on which ABN AMRO commits to purchase or sell the underlying instrument. In the event that settlement terms are non-standard, the commitment is accounted for as a derivative between trade and settlement date. Loans and receivables are recognised when they are acquired or funded by ABN AMRO and derecognised when settled. Issued debt is recognised when issued and deposits are recognised when the cash is deposited with ABN AMRO. Other financial assets and liabilities, including Governance derivatives, are recognised in the Statement of financial position when ABN AMRO becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the asset or liability. Financial assets are generally derecognised when ABN AMRO loses control and the ability to obtain benefits over the contractual rights that comprise that asset. This occurs when the rights are realised, expire or substantially all risk and rewards are transferred. Financial assets are also Annual Financial Statements derecognised in the case that the bank has neither transferred nor retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but control has passed to the transferee. Financial assets continue to be recognised in the balance sheet, and a liability recognised for the proceeds of any related funding transaction, unless a fully proportional share of all or specifically identified cash flows are transferred to the lender without material delay and the lender’s claim is limited to those cash flows and substantially all the risks and rewards and control associated with the financial instruments have been transferred, in which case that proportion of the asset is derecognised. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 264 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other Strategy comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement. ABN AMRO has protected assets through synthetic securitisations. Through a synthetic securitisation a substantial part of the credit risk related to these assets is transferred, while actual ownership of the assets remains with ABN AMRO. Business A restructuring of a financial asset with the same borrower on substantially different terms, qualitative and quantitative – generally a 10% difference in the present value of the cash flows – is accounted for as an expiration of the financial asset and recognition of a new financial asset. The difference between the former carrying amount and the carrying amount of the new financial asset is recognised in the income statement. Risk, funding & capital Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability has been settled, has expired or has been extinguished. An exchange of an existing financial liability for a new liability with the same lender on substantially different terms, qualitative and quantitative – generally a 10% difference in the present value of the cash flows – is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and recognition of a new financial liability. The difference between the former carrying amount and the consideration paid is recognised in the income statement. Any subsequent resale is treated as a new issuance. Client Clearing Leadership As a general clearing member, ABN AMRO provides clearing and settlement services to its clients for, among other things, exchange traded derivatives. In its capacity as a clearing member, ABN AMRO guarantees the fulfilment of obligations towards CCPs of clients’ transactions. ABN AMRO is not liable to clients for the non-performance of the CCP. In the event of a client defaulting, ABN AMRO has the legal obligation to settle all the clients’ Governance positions with the relevant CCPs, possibly at a loss. Possible losses arising from this guarantee might relate not only to the clients’ current positions but also to future trades of the client. Unlike a financial guarantee contract as defined in IAS 39 Financial Instruments, the guarantee provided by ABN AMRO does not relate to specific debt instruments. Therefore, we consider this guarantee to be in the scope of IAS 37 Provisions since the possible outflow of resources stem from the clearing arrangement with the CCP. ABN AMRO receives and collects (cash) margins from clients, and remits Annual Financial Statements these margins to the relevant CCP in whole or in part. Given the stringent margin requirements set by the CCPs, possible future outflows of resources for new clearing transactions are considered close to zero. As a consequence, ABN AMRO does not reflect the exchange traded derivatives cleared on behalf of clients in its financial statements. Under normal circumstances, the guarantee has no fair value and is not recognised in the financial statements. The loss recognition in the event of ­non-performance of a client will be in the scope of IAS 37 including disclosures. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 265 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Offsetting The bank offsets financial assets and liabilities and the net amount reported on the Statement of Strategy financial position if it is legally entitled to set off the recognised amounts and intends to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Statement of cash flows For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, freely available balances with central banks and other banks, and net balances on current accounts Business with other banks with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition. The Statement of cash flows, based on the indirect method of calculating operating cash flows, gives details of the source of cash and cash equivalents which became available during the year and the application of these cash and cash equivalents over the course of the year. The cash flows are analysed into cash flows from operations, including banking activities, investment activities and financing activities. Movements in loans and receivables and interbank deposits are included in the cash flow from Risk, funding & capital operating activities. Investment activities are comprised of acquisitions, sales and redemptions in respect of financial investments, as well as investments in, and sales of, subsidiaries and associates, property and equipment. The issuing of shares and the borrowing and repayment of long-term funds are treated as financing activities. Cash flows arising from foreign currency transactions are translated into euros using the exchange rates at the date of the cash flows. 2 Segment reporting Leadership Accounting policy for segment reporting The segment reporting is in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments. The segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Managing Board, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance and has been identified as chief operating decision-maker. All transactions between segments are eliminated as intersegment revenues and expenses in Group Functions. Geographical data is presented according to management view. Governance Segment assets, liabilities, income and results are measured based on our accounting policies. Segment assets, liabilities, income and results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Transactions between segments Annual Financial Statements are conducted at arm’s length. Interest income is reported as net interest income as management primarily relies on net interest income as a performance measure, not gross income and expense. There was no revenue from transactions with a single external client or counterparty exceeding 10% of the bank’s total revenue in 2016 or 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 266 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Retail Banking Retail Banking provides banking products and services to individuals and small businesses Strategy (with turnover up to EUR 1 million). In addition a wide variety of banking and insurance products and services are provided through our branch network, online, via contact centres and through subsidiaries. ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep, Alfam, ICS and MoneYou are part of Retail Banking. Private Banking Private Banking provides total solutions to its clients’ global wealth management needs and Business offers a rich array of products and services designed to address their individual requirements. Private Banking operates under the brand name ABN AMRO MeesPierson in the Netherlands and internationally under ABN AMRO Private Banking, as well as local brands such as Banque Neuflize OBC in France and Bethmann Bank in Germany. Corporate Banking Risk, funding & capital Corporate Banking consists of Commercial Clients, International Clients and Capital Markets Solutions. ÅÅ Commercial Clients serves business clients with revenues from EUR 1 million up to EUR 250 million, and clients active in Commercial Real Estate (excluding publicly listed companies, which are served by International Clients). Our Lease and Commercial Finance activities are also included in Commercial Clients; ÅÅ International Clients serves business clients with revenues exceeding EUR 250 million, as well as Energy, Commodities & Transportation (ECT) Clients, Diamond & Jewellery Clients, Financial Institutions and Listed Commercial Real Estate clients; ÅÅ Capital Markets Solutions serves clients by providing products and services related to financial Leadership markets. Capital Markets Solutions includes ABN AMRO Clearing. Group Functions Group Functions supports the business segments and consists of Technology, Operations & Property Services (TOPS), Finance, Risk Management & Strategy, People, Regulations & Identity (PR&I), Group Audit and the Corporate Office. The majority of the Group Functions costs are allocated Governance to the businesses. Group Functions’ results include those of ALM/Treasury and the securities financing activities. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 267 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Segment income statement for the year 2016 2016 Private Corporate Group Strategy (in millions) Retail Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Net interest income 3,355 645 2,270 -2 6,267 Net fee and commission income 463 580 751 -52 1,743 Net trading income 4 45 -207 -53 -211 Share of result in equity accounted investments 43 17 -10 4 55 Business Other operating income 93 27 42 211 373 Operating income 3,959 1,315 2,846 108 8,227 Personnel expenses 470 501 680 1,125 2,777 General and administrative expenses 513 240 426 1,502 2,682 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 6 32 17 144 198 Risk, funding & capital Intersegment revenues/expenses 1,222 272 872 -2,366 Operating expenses 2,211 1,045 1,995 405 5,657 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 79 20 31 -15 114 Total expenses 2,290 1,065 2,026 390 5,771 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,669 249 820 -282 2,456 Income tax expense 422 50 214 -36 650 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,247 199 605 -245 1,806 Attributable to: Leadership Owners of the company 1,247 199 604 -246 1,805 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Retail Banking Net interest income, at EUR 3,355 million, increased by EUR 53 million compared with 2015. This improvement can largely be attributed to a provision for inconsistencies in interest calculations Governance between the bank and its business partners regarding one of the mortgage products which was booked in 2015 (EUR 29 million) and partly released in 2016. Net interest income in 2016 was negatively impacted by a provision for ICS (EUR 47 million) while 2015 included a provision for Euribor mortgages (EUR 41 million). Margins on residential mortgages continued to improve in 2016 as the impact of repricing of the Annual Financial Statements mortgage book in recent years continued to benefit net interest income. Net interest income on consumer loans decreased due to lower average loan volumes and decreased margins. Net interest income on deposits increased compared with 2015 due to higher margins and higher average deposit volumes. Net fee and commission income decreased by EUR 64 million compared with 2015, amongst others due to a reduction of fees charged for payment packages. Uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, especially in the first half of 2016, had a negative impact as well. Other operating income increased by EUR 96 million due to a profit (EUR 101 million) related to the gain on the sale of Visa Europe. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 268 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Personnel expenses decreased to EUR 470 million (2015: EUR 487 million). The number of FTEs in Retail Banking decreased in 2016 due to a further reduction in the number of branches and a transfer Strategy of employees to Private Banking related to the lower threshold for private banking clients. General and administrative expenses increased to EUR 513 million compared with EUR 445 million in 2015. This was largely due to an increase in regulatory levies (EUR 136 million in 2016 versus EUR 87 million in 2015). The execution costs provision for ICS in 2016 (EUR 16 million) was offset by stricter cost control. Higher intersegment revenues/expenses resulted from a higher allocation of project costs related Business to the continuous improvement of products, services and IT processes (including the Retail Digitalisation programme). Impairment charges on loans and other receivables were limited in 2016 and EUR 20 million below Risk, funding & capital the 2015 level. Both years included significant IBNI releases, although these were higher in 2015. An IBNI release of EUR 81 million was recorded in 2016 (2015: EUR 85 million). The Dutch economy recovered further and confidence in the housing market improved in 2016. Both contributed to lower impairment charges for mortgages (excluding IBNI releases). Consumer loans also benefited from further improved economic conditions and active risk management of the portfolio of clients in arrears, leading to lower loan impairments with higher IBNI releases. Private Banking Net interest income increased by EUR 56 million to EUR 645 million in 2016. This was mainly the Leadership result of higher margins on deposits, partly offset by lower average lending volumes. Net fee and commission income decreased by EUR 39 million. Uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, especially in the first half of 2016, had a negative impact on the stock markets. This led to lower average client assets and a decline in transaction volumes. Net trading income decreased compared with 2015. Governance Personnel expenses remained stable compared with 2015, while general and administrative expenses showed a decrease of EUR 47 million. This mainly resulted from the favourable settlement of an insurance claim in 2016 (EUR 24 million), several smaller provision releases and strict cost control. This was partly offset by higher regulatory levies (EUR 18 million in 2016 versus EUR 11 million in 2015). The increase in intersegment revenues/expenses was related to higher allocated project costs for the continuous improvement of products, services and IT processes. Annual Financial Statements Impairment charges on loans and other receivables amounted to EUR 20 million compared with a EUR 4 million release in 2015. This was mainly the result of lower IBNI releases (EUR 3 million in 2016 versus EUR 12 million in 2015) and specific additions in 2016 compared with a specific release in 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 269 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Corporate Banking Net interest income increased by EUR 128 million to EUR 2,270 million. Commercial Clients posted a modest rise in net interest income of EUR 34 million to Strategy EUR 1,339 million. Margins on loans and deposits increased as did average deposit volumes. Average loan volumes decreased partly due to the reallocation of a portfolio to Group Functions in Q4 2015. Both years are impacted by the provision for SME derivatives-related issues. Business Net interest income in International Clients increased by EUR 35 million to EUR 744 million, benefiting from growth in the ECT Clients loan portfolio (mainly international). This was partly offset by lower margins on deposits. Net interest income in Capital Markets Solutions improved by EUR 59 million to EUR 186 million, mainly at Sales & Trading (partly due to favourable one-offs as a result of collateral management). Risk, funding & capital Net fee and commission remained flat at EUR 751 million. Higher fees due to more cleared volumes at Capital Markets Solutions were offset by lower fees at International Clients. Net trading income went down by EUR 334 million. This decrease was driven by additions to the provision for SME derivatives-related issues in 2016. This was partially offset by EUR 51 million lower CVA/DVA/FVA results compared with 2015 (EUR 2 million negative in 2016 versus EUR 49 million positive in 2015). Leadership Other operating income went down by EUR 99 million, largely due to lower tax-exempt results on the Equity Participations portfolio due to less favourable market conditions (including the ongoing low oil price). Personnel expenses amounted to EUR 680 million in 2016, up by EUR 4 million compared with 2015. Personnel expenses increased due to higher pension expenses and a growth in the number of FTEs, Governance partly offset by lower restructuring provisions in 2016. General and administrative expenses were up EUR 18 million due to a provision at Capital Markets Solutions for SME derivatives-related issues (EUR 55 million) and higher project costs. This was partly offset by EUR 27 million lower regulatory levies and several smaller favourable one-offs in 2016. Intersegment revenues/expenses grew by EUR 35 million mainly due to higher project costs Annual Financial Statements for continuous improvement of products, services and IT processes (including TOPS 2020). Impairment charges amounted to EUR 31 million, down by EUR 388 million compared with 2015. The decrease of impairment charges is fully recognised in Commercial Clients due to the further broad recovery of the Dutch economy. Slightly higher impairment charges at International Clients were offset by lower additions at Capital Markets Solutions. In addition, Q2 2016 includes the addition to the provision for SMEs with derivatives-related issues of EUR 361 million gross (EUR 271 million net of tax). This provision was taken based on ABN AMRO’s decision to adhere to the advice of the committee of independent experts on the reassessment of Other SME interest rate derivatives. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 270 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Group Functions Net interest income decreased by EUR 46 million compared with 2015 as the interest result came Strategy down, in line with the flattening of the yield curve (partly offset by ABN AMRO’s duration strategy. More information is provided in the Market risk in the banking book section). Moreover, interest paid on cash deposits with the European Central Bank increased due to higher average volumes and more unfavourable (negative) rates. Both were partly offset by lower funding costs on Dutch State funding (Dutch State Treasury Agency) following a partial redemption in 2016. Lastly, both years included tax-exempt provisions related to the part of the securities financing activities discontinued Business in 2009. Net fee and commission income increased by EUR 16 million, partly driven by lower fees paid to Capital Markets Solutions related to securities financing activities. Other operating income decreased by EUR 75 million compared with 2015 primarily as lower hedge Risk, funding & capital accounting-related results were recorded in 2016 (EUR 39 million in 2016 versus EUR 182 million in 2015). Moreover, no CVA/DVA results were recorded in 2016 compared with favourable CVA/DVA adjustments in 2015 (EUR 27 million positive). This was partly offset by profits/revaluation gains on stakes in Visa Europe (EUR 14 million) and Equens (EUR 52 million). Both years included tax-exempt provisions related to the part of the securities financing activities discontinued in 2009. Personnel expenses, at EUR 1,125 million in 2016, went up by EUR 297 million compared with 2015. The increase was due to EUR 321 million of restructuring provisions related to the announced reorganisation of the control and support activities (EUR 144 million in Q3 2016) and digitalisation Leadership and process optimisation (EUR 177 million in Q4 2016). This was partly offset by several smaller restructuring provisions recorded in 2015. General and administrative expenses increased by EUR 82 million as last year included some favourable incidentals including a EUR 35 million release related to DSB and a VAT return, partly offset by a final settlement (EUR 55 million) with Vestia (a Dutch housing corporation). The year 2016 includes a EUR 13 million restructuring provision for office space (plus EUR 14 million accelerated depreciation) and higher projects costs for continuous Governance improvement of products, services and IT processes (including the TOPS 2020 and Retail Digitalisation programmes). Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 271 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Segment income statement for the year 2015 2015 Strategy Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Net interest income 3,302 589 2,142 44 6,076 Net fee and commission income 527 619 751 -68 1,829 Net trading income 7 58 127 -92 99 Share of result in equity accounted Business investments 21 17 -40 3 1 Other operating income -3 27 141 286 450 Operating income 3,853 1,310 3,120 172 8,455 Personnel expenses 487 501 676 828 2,492 General and administrative expenses 445 287 408 1,420 2,559 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets Risk, funding & capital 7 24 19 127 177 Intersegment revenues/expenses 1,167 238 837 -2,242 Operating expenses 2,106 1,050 1,940 133 5,228 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 99 -4 419 -8 505 Total expenses 2,205 1,046 2,358 125 5,734 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,649 264 762 48 2,722 Income tax expense 423 49 165 160 798 Leadership Profit/(loss) for the year 1,226 214 596 -112 1,924 Attributable to: Owners of the company 1,226 214 592 -113 1,919 Non-controlling interests 5 5 Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 272 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Selected assets and liabilities by segment 31 December 2016 Strategy Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Assets Financial assets held for trading 1,607 1,607 Derivatives 54 12,038 2,293 14,384 Securities financing 14 4,634 12,941 17,589 Business Residential mortgages 146,065 2,924 8 3,073 152,069 Consumer loans 7,684 3,752 670 12,106 Corporate loans 2,518 5,449 83,657 4,433 96,058 Other loans and receivables-customers 7,157 288 7,445 Other 2,313 12,426 10,109 68,375 93,223 Total assets 158,580 24,618 119,880 91,403 394,482 Risk, funding & capital Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 791 791 Derivatives 30 10,087 4,409 14,526 Securities financing 3 1,101 10,522 11,625 Demand deposits 25,514 39,490 54,440 404 119,848 Saving deposits 72,019 17,345 3,376 92,740 Time deposits 5,217 4,990 4,558 1,404 16,169 Other due to customers Other 55,831 -37,240 45,527 55,727 119,845 Total liabilities 158,580 24,618 119,880 72,466 375,544 Leadership 31 December 2015 Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Assets Financial assets held for trading Governance 1,706 1,706 Derivatives 94 15,340 3,704 19,138 Securities financing 20 4,591 15,451 20,062 Residential mortgages 145,058 3,072 12 3,401 151,543 Consumer loans 8,105 5,858 624 14,587 Corporate loans 2,615 7,671 89,338 4,265 103,889 Other loans and receivables-customers -1 6,143 215 6,357 Annual Financial Statements Other 1,553 7,457 15,125 65,958 90,092 Total assets 157,330 24,171 132,878 92,994 407,373 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 459 459 Derivatives 85 13,560 8,780 22,425 Securities financing 8 1,155 10,209 11,372 Demand deposits 23,579 41,435 69,307 311 134,632 Saving deposits 71,486 18,498 4,022 94,005 Time deposits 5,142 6,533 4,884 1,996 18,555 Other due to customers 160 160 Other 57,123 -42,387 39,331 54,112 108,180 Other Total liabilities 157,330 24,171 132,878 75,410 389,789 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 273 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Geographical segments 2016 Strategy Rest of (in millions) The Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Net interest income 5,259 569 199 175 65 6,267 Net fee and commission income 1,104 350 111 165 13 1,743 Net trading income -261 26 11 16 -3 -211 Share of result in equity accounted Business investments 38 17 55 Other operating income 346 18 1 7 373 Operating income 6,486 980 322 364 76 8,227 Personnel expenses 2,160 360 94 139 25 2,777 General and administrative expenses 2,336 230 43 56 16 2,682 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 153 34 4 5 2 198 Risk, funding & capital Intercountry revenues/expenses -37 14 7 27 -11 Operating expenses 4,612 638 147 227 32 5,657 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables -42 72 58 17 9 114 Total expenses 4,570 710 206 244 41 5,771 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,915 270 117 119 35 2,456 Income tax expense 537 71 15 16 10 650 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,378 200 101 103 24 1,806 Attributable to: Leadership Owners of the company 1,377 200 101 103 24 1,805 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 274 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2015 Rest of (in millions) The Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Strategy Net interest income 5,109 577 156 178 57 6,076 Net fee and commission income 1,186 363 104 163 13 1,829 Net trading income 105 -30 5 20 -1 99 Share of result in equity accounted investments -16 17 1 Other operating income 417 26 6 450 Operating income Business 6,801 953 265 367 69 8,455 Personnel expenses 1,905 354 85 129 19 2,492 General and administrative expenses 2,195 248 41 61 14 2,559 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 138 27 5 5 2 177 Intercountry revenues/expenses -20 -3 8 21 -6 Operating expenses 4,217 626 139 217 29 5,228 Risk, funding & capital Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 383 29 11 47 35 505 Total expenses 4,600 656 150 264 64 5,734 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 2,201 298 115 102 5 2,722 Income tax expense 665 88 34 11 -1 798 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,536 210 81 91 7 1,924 Attributable to: Leadership Owners of the company 1,531 210 81 91 7 1,919 Non-controlling interests 5 5 Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 275 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 3 Overview of financial assets and liabilities by measurement base 31 December 2016 Strategy Fair value Fair value through profit through profit Available for sale (in millions) Amortised cost or loss-Trading or loss-Other financial assets Total Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 21,861 21,861 Financial assets held for trading 1,607 1,607 Derivatives 12,211 2,173 14,384 Financial investments 778 44,719 45,497 Business Securities financing 17,589 17,589 Loans and receivables-banks 13,485 13,485 Loans and receivables-customers 267,679 267,679 Other assets 3,275 3,275 Total financial assets 320,614 13,818 6,226 44,719 385,377 Risk, funding & capital Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 791 791 Derivatives 10,401 4,126 14,526 Securities financing 11,625 11,625 Due to banks 13,419 13,419 Due to customers 228,758 228,758 Issued debt 79,639 1,639 81,278 Subordinated liabilities 11,171 11,171 Other liabilities 3,275 3,275 Leadership Total financial liabilities 344,613 11,191 9,040 364,844 31 December 2015 Fair value Fair value through profit through profit Available for sale (in millions) Amortised cost or loss-Trading or loss-Other financial assets Total Financial assets Governance Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 Financial assets held for trading 1,706 1,706 Derivatives 15,495 3,644 19,138 Financial investments 770 39,772 40,542 Securities financing 20,062 20,062 Loans and receivables-banks 15,680 15,680 Annual Financial Statements Loans and receivables-customers 276,375 276,375 Other assets 2,543 2,543 Total financial assets 338,311 17,200 6,956 39,772 402,240 Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 459 459 Derivatives 13,725 8,700 22,425 Securities financing 11,372 11,372 Due to banks 14,630 14,630 Due to customers 247,353 247,353 Issued debt 74,492 1,715 76,207 Subordinated liabilities 9,708 9,708 Other Other liabilities 2,543 2,543 Total financial liabilities 357,555 14,184 12,958 384,697 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 276 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 4 Net interest income Accounting policy for net interest income and expense ABN AMRO applies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Interest income Strategy and expenses are recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis for all financial instruments using the effective interest rate method except for those financial instruments held for trading. The effective interest rate method allocates interest, amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences, including transaction costs and qualifying fees and commissions over Business the expected lives of the assets and liabilities. The effective interest rate method requires the Group to estimate future cash flows, in some cases based on its experience of customer behaviour, considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument, as well as expected lives of the assets and liabilities. Due to the large number of products, there are no individual estimates that are material to the bank’s results or financial position. Interest income and expenses of trading balances are included in net trading income. Risk, funding & capital (in millions) 2016 2015 Interest income1 12,651 13,207 Interest expense1 6,383 7,130 Net interest income 6,267 6,076 1 ABN AMRO accounts for negative interest in compliance with EBA guidance. In 2016 an amount of EUR 140 million negative interest yield on liabilities was reported as interest income and an amount of EUR 159 million negative interest yield on assets was reported as interest expense. Leadership Net interest income Net interest income for full-year 2016 amounted to EUR 6,267 million, an increase of EUR 191 million compared with EUR 6,076 million in 2015. The increase originates from the commercial segments and was primarily due to improved margins on residential mortgages, corporate loans and deposits. Interest income Governance The breakdown of interest income by type of product for the years ended 31 December is shown in the following table. (in millions) 2016 2015 Annual Financial Statements Interest income from: Financial investments available-for-sale 690 692 Securities financing 290 295 Loans and receivables-banks 218 263 Loans and receivables-customers 9,187 9,770 Other 2,265 2,186 Total interest income 12,651 13,207 Interest income amounted to EUR 12,651 million in 2016, a decrease of EUR 556 million compared with EUR 13,207 million in 2015. Interest income from items designated at fair value through profit or loss amounted to EUR 2,265 million (2015: EUR 2,186 million). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 277 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The decrease in interest income from loans and receivables-customers was mainly related to residential mortgages (decrease of EUR 456 million) due to lower interest rates. ABN AMRO applies fair value hedge accounting on hedged items. These hedged items are based Strategy on gross amounts. Other includes interest income on hedging instruments for an amount of EUR 1,864 million (2015: EUR 1,855 million). Interest expense Business The breakdown of interest expenses by type of product for the years ended 31 December is shown in the following table. (in millions) 2016 2015 Interest expenses from: Securities financing 179 187 Risk, funding & capital Due to banks 155 242 Due to customers 1,250 1,940 Issued debt 1,563 1,646 Subordinated liabilities 520 451 Other 2,716 2,664 Total interest expense 6,383 7,130 Interest expense for the full year 2016 amounted to EUR 6,383 million, a decrease of EUR 747 million compared with EUR 7,130 million in 2015. Interest expense from items designated at fair value through profit or loss amounted to EUR 2,730 million (2015: EUR 2,680 million). Leadership The decrease in interest expenses from due to customers was caused by the lower interest expense (EUR 690 million) for client savings. ABN AMRO applies fair value hedge accounting on hedged items. These hedged items are based on gross amounts. Other includes interest expense on hedging instruments for an amount of Governance EUR 2,097 million (2015: EUR 2,120 million). 5 Net fee and commission income Accounting policy for net fee and commission income Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO applies IAS 18 Revenue. Fees and commissions are recognised as the services are provided. The following fee types are identified: ÅÅ Service fees are recognised on a straight-line basis over the service contract period; portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts; ÅÅ Fees arising from negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party are recognised upon completion of the underlying transaction. Commission revenue is recognised when the performance obligation is complete. Loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 278 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Fees and commissions dependent on the outcome of a particular event or contingent upon performance are recognised when the following criteria have been met: ÅÅ The fees are realised, or realisable and earned; ÅÅ The earnings process is completed by performing according to the terms of the arrangements, Strategy not simply by originating a revenue-generating arrangement; ÅÅ If services are rendered or rights to use assets extend continuously over time (for example, interest or rent), and when reliable measures based on contractual prices established in advance are commonly available, revenues may be recognised as time passes. Business (in millions) 2016 2015 Fee and commission income 3,082 3,061 Fee and commission expense 1,340 1,233 Net fee and commission income 1,743 1,829 Risk, funding & capital Net fee and commission income decreased by EUR 86 million in 2016 compared with 2015. This was mainly related to uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, which has a negative impact on Private Banking. For Retail Banking the decrease was mainly due to a reduction of client rates for payment packages in 2016. Fee and commission income Fee and commission income for the years ended 31 December is specified in the following table. Leadership (in millions) 2016 2015 Fee and commission income from: Securities and custodian services 1,438 1,344 Payment services 676 691 Portfolio management and trust fees 545 586 Guarantees and commitment fees 167 179 Governance Insurance and investment fees 86 86 Other service fees 171 174 Total fee and commission income 3,082 3,061 Income from securities and custodian services was higher in 2016 as market volatility resulted in more cleared volumes at Capital Markets Solutions. Annual Financial Statements Payment service fees decreased due to a reduction of client rates for payment packages in 2016. Portfolio management and trust fees were lower within Private Banking. The decrease was mainly related to more uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, resulting in lower average client assets. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 279 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Fee and commission expense The components of fee and commission expenses for the years ended 31 December are as follows: Strategy (in millions) 2016 2015 Fee and commission expenses from: Securities and custodian services 1,046 953 Payment services 162 150 Portfolio management and trust fees 76 74 Guarantees and commitment fees 8 8 Business Insurance and investment fees 30 28 Other service fees 19 20 Total fee and commission expense 1,340 1,233 Securities and custodian services fee expenses were higher due to market volatility in 2016. Risk, funding & capital 6 Net trading income Accounting policy for net trading income In accordance with IAS 39, trading positions are held at fair value and net trading income includes gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities which are trading financial assets and liabilities, interest income and expenses related to trading financial assets and liabilities, dividends received from trading instruments and related funding costs. Dividend income from trading instruments is recognised when entitlement is established. Leadership Net trading income also includes changes in fair value arising from changes in counterparty credit spreads and changes in own credit spreads where these impact the value of our trading liabilities. The funding value adjustment incorporates the incremental cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised and partly collateralised derivatives. Governance (in millions) 2016 2015 Interest instruments trading -364 -99 Equity trading -38 -84 Foreign exchange transaction results1 183 319 Other 8 -37 Total net trading income -211 99 Annual Financial Statements 1 Includes foreign exchange results for balances not being “fair value to profit or loss” EUR 31 million (2015: EUR 30 million). Total net trading income amounted to a loss of EUR 211 million (2015: gain EUR 99 million). This was mainly caused by lower CVA/DVA/FVA results (EUR 2 million negative for the year 2016 versus a positive EUR 76 million for the year 2015), Both years include provisions related to discontinued securities financing activities (Group Functions) and provisions for SME derivatives-related issues (Corporate Banking). For more details please refer to note 29 Provisions. Interest instruments trading income decreased by EUR 265 million in 2016 compared with 2015. The decrease was driven by higher provisions in Corporate Banking for SME derivatives-related issues. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 280 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The effect of CVA and DVA results (EUR 0 million in 2016 versus EUR 42 million in the previous year) was offset by higher gains related to the IRS portfolio which was used to hedge the interest Strategy component of the cross currency swap positions. Equity trading income was less negative in 2016 compared with the previous year mainly due to tax-exempt provisions related to discontinued securities financing activities. Foreign exchange transaction results decreased to EUR 183 million in 2016, down by EUR 136 million Business compared with 2015. This decrease was mainly the result of the valuation of cross currency swaps at the beginning of 2015 between the euro versus the US dollar. 7 Other income Risk, funding & capital Accounting policy for other income Other income includes all other banking activities such as leasing activities and results on the disposal of assets. It also includes the change in fair value of derivatives used for risk management purposes that do not meet the requirements of IAS 39 for hedge accounting, ineffectiveness of hedging programmes, fair value changes relating to assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, and changes in the value of any related derivatives. For liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, it includes changes in own credit spreads. Dividend income from non-trading equity investments is recognised when entitlement is established. (in millions) 2016 2015 Leadership Leasing activities 23 22 Disposal of operating activities and equity accounted investments 81 28 Result from financial transactions 163 286 Other 106 114 Governance Total other income 373 450 Other income decreased with EUR 77 million from EUR 450 million in 2015 to EUR 373 million in 2016, due mainly to a decline in result from financial transactions. Result from financial transactions decreased by EUR 123 million in 2016 compared with 2015 Annual Financial Statements mainly due to hedge accounting-related results at Group Functions. Results of the revaluation and divestments at equity accounted participations decreased in 2016 compared to 2015. These decreases were mainly offset by a profit of EUR 116 million related to ABN AMRO’s equity stake in Visa Europe. Disposal of operating activities and equity accounted investments increased mainly due to the profits/revaluation gains of ABN AMRO’s equity stake in Equens SE (EUR 52 million). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 281 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 8 Personnel expenses Accounting policy for personnel expenses Salaries and wages, social security charges and other salary-related costs are recognised over the Strategy period in which the employees provide the services to which the payments relate. The accounting policies for pensions and other post-retirement benefits are included in note 30. (in millions) 2016 2015 Salaries and wages 1,716 1,717 Business Social security charges 235 244 Pension expenses relating to defined benefit plans 6 3 Defined contribution plan expenses 343 322 Other 477 206 Total personnel expenses 2,777 2,492 Risk, funding & capital Total personnel expenses for 2016 amounted to EUR 2,777 million, an increase of EUR 285 million, or 11.4%, compared with EUR 2,492 million in 2015. The increase in the line other was due to EUR 321 million restructuring provisions related to the announced reorganisation of the control and support activities recorded in Q3 and further digitalisation and process optimisation in Q4 2016. Leadership 9 General and administrative expenses Accounting policy for general and administrative expenses Costs are recognised in the period in which services have been provided and to which the payment relates. (in millions) 2016 2015 Governance Agency staff, contractors and consultancy costs 777 764 Staff related costs 87 90 Information technology costs 1,002 950 Housing 195 199 Annual Financial Statements Post, telephone and transport 57 66 Marketing and public relations costs 109 127 Regulatory levies 275 241 Other 179 123 Total general and administrative expenses 2,682 2,559 Total general and administrative expenses increased by EUR 123 million to EUR 2,682 million in 2016, up 4.8% compared with EUR 2,559 million in 2015. Information technology costs increased by EUR 52 million due to several ongoing IT-related projects with multiple external contractors. Marketing and public relations costs decreased by EUR 18 million Other due to the fact that fewer campaigns were mounted in 2016 compared with 2015. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 282 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Regulatory levies increased by EUR 34 million, whereby the Deposit Guarantee Scheme (DGS) increased by EUR 87 million and the Single Resolution Fund charges decreased by EUR 53 million Strategy partly due to a EUR 32 million refund on the 2015 payment. Other increased by EUR 56 million due to provisions for SME derivatives-related issues and the ICS redress scheme. This was partly offset by the favourable settlement of an insurance claim. A specification of the regulatory charges is as follows: (in millions) 2016 2015 Business Bank tax 98 98 Deposit Guarantee Scheme 90 3 Single resolution fund 66 119 Other regulatory levies 22 20 Total regulatory levies 275 Risk, funding & capital 241 Auditor’s fees are recognised on an accrual basis. Fees paid to EY (2015: KPMG) are included under agency staff, contractors and consultancy costs. These fees are specified in the following table. (in millions) 2016 2015 Financial statements audit fees 7 7 Audit related fees 3 4 Total auditor's fee 10 11 Leadership Financial statements audit fees relating to the audit of activities in the Netherlands amounted to EUR 6 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 6 million). Audit related fees for activities in the Netherlands amounted to EUR 1 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 2 million). Governance 10 Income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities Accounting policy for income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities ABN AMRO applies IAS 12 Income Taxes in accounting for taxes on income. ABN AMRO is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Income tax expense consists of Annual Financial Statements current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement in the period in which profits arise. Withholding taxes are included in trading income. Income tax recoverable on tax allowable losses is recognised as a current tax asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offsetting against taxable profits arising in the current or prior period. Current tax is measured using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is recognised for qualifying temporary differences. Temporary differences represent the difference between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using Other tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 283 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset when there is both a legal right to offset and an intention to settle on a net basis. Strategy (in millions) 2016 2015 Recognised in income statement: Current tax expenses for the current period 791 737 Adjustments recognised in the period for current tax of prior periods -20 -7 Previously unrecognised tax losses, tax credits and temporary differences increasing (reducing) Business current tax expenses -3 -5 Total current tax expense 768 725 Deferred tax arising from the current period -158 49 Impact of changes in tax rates on deferred taxes 4 -4 Deferred tax arising from the write-down or reversal of a write-down of a deferred tax asset 7 -16 Previously unrecognised tax losses, tax credits and temporary differences reducing deferred tax expense 30 45 Risk, funding & capital Total deferred tax expense -118 73 Total income tax expense 650 798 Reconciliation of the total tax charge The effective rate based on the Consolidated statement of income was 26.5% in 2016 (2015: 29.3%) and differs from the theoretical rate that would arise using the statutory tax rate of the Netherlands. This difference is explained as follows: Leadership (in millions) 2016 2015 Profit/(loss) before taxation 2,456 2,722 Applicable tax rate 25.0% 25.0% Expected income tax expense 614 680 Increase/(decrease) in taxes resulting from: Tax exempt income -19 Governance 26 Share in result of associates and joint ventures -9 -24 Non deductable Dutch bank tax 24 25 Other non deductable expenses 3 4 Previously unrecognised tax losses and temporary differences 26 95 Write-down and reversal of write-down of deferred tax assets 7 -12 Impact of changes in tax rates on temporary differences 4 -4 Annual Financial Statements Foreign tax rate differential 13 9 Adjustments for current tax of prior years -17 -7 Other 4 6 Actual income tax expense 650 798 The effective tax rate in 2016 was affected by non-taxable gains and income which was almost offset by non-deductible expenses and bank tax, the reassessment of our tax position due to the fact that we continued to settle open issues with the tax authorities, several adjustments to prior years related to tax assessments and the geographical mix of profits subject to higher or lower tax rates. Tax assets and liabilities Other The most significant temporary differences arise from the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, allowances for loan impairment and investments (Available-for-sale). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 284 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The following table summarises the tax position at 31 December. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Strategy (in millions) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Current tax 107 123 36 627 Deferred tax 307 11 309 23 Total tax assets and liabilities 415 134 345 650 Business The significant components and annual movements of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at 31 December are shown in the following tables. As at As at (in millions) 1 January 2016 Income statement Equity Other 31 December 2016 Deferred tax assets: Risk, funding & capital Assets held for trading and derivatives 356 1 -71 286 Investments (Available-for-sale) 16 10 26 Property and equipment 22 -13 9 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 2 2 Insurance policy and claim reserves -2 1 -1 Loans and receivables-customers 3 3 Impairments on loans 33 23 1 57 Provisions for pensions and post-retirement benefits 24 11 -10 -1 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income 68 -14 53 Leadership Unused tax losses and unused tax credits 11 8 2 22 Other 50 -12 -1 37 Total deferred tax assets before offsetting 581 14 -82 4 517 Offsetting DTA 272 209 Total deferred tax assets 309 307 Governance Deferred tax liabilities related to: Investments (Available-for-sale) 261 -99 28 189 Property and equipment 2 1 3 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 2 2 Loans and receivables-customers 8 -2 6 Deferred policy acquisition costs 1 1 Annual Financial Statements Other 20 -1 19 Total deferred tax liabilities before offsetting 295 -104 28 1 220 Offsetting DTL 272 209 Total deferred tax liabilities 23 11 Net deferred tax 286 297 Deferred tax through income statement and equity -118 110 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 285 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction As at As at (in millions) 1 January 2015 Income statement Equity Other 31 December 2015 Deferred tax assets: Strategy Assets held for trading and derivatives 410 -55 356 Investments (Available-for-sale) 14 1 1 -1 16 Property and equipment 20 1 1 22 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 2 2 Insurance policy and claim reserves -2 -1 -2 Loans and receivables-customers 4 -1 3 Business Impairments on loans 22 10 33 Provisions for pensions and post-retirement benefits 34 -15 5 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income 54 12 1 68 Unused tax losses and unused tax credits 11 1 -1 11 Other 36 16 -1 50 Total deferred tax assets Risk, funding & capital before offsetting 605 26 -50 1 581 Offsetting DTA 132 272 Total deferred tax assets 473 309 Deferred tax liabilities related to: Assets held for trading and derivatives 3 -0 -3 Investments (Available-for-sale) 121 92 47 1 261 Property and equipment 1 -1 2 2 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 2 2 Loans and receivables-customers Leadership 10 -2 8 Deferred policy acquisition costs 1 1 Other 13 8 -1 20 Total deferred tax liabilities before offsetting 151 98 46 295 Offsetting DTL 132 272 Total deferred tax liabilities 19 23 Governance Net deferred tax 454 286 Deferred tax through income statement and equity 73 97 Deferred tax assets Annual Financial Statements Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Recognition is based on estimates of sufficient taxable income by jurisdiction in which ABN AMRO operates, available tax planning opportunities, and the period over which deferred tax assets are recoverable. Management considers this more likely than not. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, and depending on the tax strategies that ABN AMRO may be able to implement, changes to the recognition of deferred tax assets could be required, which could impact our financial position and net profit. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 286 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Tax losses The total accumulated losses available for carry-forward at 31 December 2016 amounted to Strategy EUR 1,554 million (2015: EUR 1,542 million), of which EUR 60 million (2015: EUR 32 million) could be recognised for future tax benefits. The recorded deferred tax asset for tax losses carried forward amounted to EUR 22 million (2015: EUR 11 million). Unrecognised tax assets Deferred tax assets of EUR 24 million (2015: EUR 6 million) have not been recognised in respect of Business gross deductible temporary differences of EUR 74 million (2015: EUR19 million) and EUR 266 million (2015: EUR 278 million) have not been recognised in respect of gross tax losses of EUR 1,494 million (2015: EUR 1,510 million) because future taxable profits are not considered probable. These deferred tax assets are mainly related to positions outside the Netherlands. Tax credits and unrecognised tax credits Risk, funding & capital ABN AMRO had carry-forward tax credits of EUR 3 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: EUR 3 million) which are not recognised because offset to future tax benefits is not expected. The following tables show when the operating losses and tax credits as at 31 December 2016 will expire. Loss carry-forward 2016: Between six and No (in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 twenty years expiration Total Leadership Loss carry-forward recognised 4 15 41 60 Loss carry-forward not recognised 4 4 4 10 5 8 1,460 1,494 Total tax losses carry forward (gross) 4 4 4 10 9 23 1,501 1,554 Governance Tax credits 2016: Between six and No (in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 twenty years expiration Total Tax credits recognised Tax credits not recognised 3 3 Annual Financial Statements Total tax credits carry forward (gross) 3 3 ABN AMRO does not recognise deferred tax in respect of ABN AMRO investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interest in joint arrangements when ABN AMRO is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. It is not practicable to determine the amount of income tax payable were such temporary differences reverse. As at 31 December 2016, ABN AMRO recognised net deferred tax assets of EUR 16 million Other (2015: EUR 13 million) that exceed deferred tax liabilities in entities which have suffered a loss in either 2016 or 2015. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 287 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Tax related to each component of other comprehensive income and tax related to equity can be found in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and in the Consolidated statements Strategy of changes in equity. Income tax consequences of dividend The Managing Board proposes, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, a final dividend of EUR 414 million for the ordinary shares. The dividend will in principle be subject to 15% withholding tax. Business Country-by-country reporting The following table provides an overview of total assets, total operating income, average number of FTEs, operating profit/(loss) before taxation and income tax expense. In addition, the following table shows the principal subsidiary and main activity for each country. The full list of participating interests as referred to in Article 414, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been filed with the Trade Register. Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2016 Total Operating operating Average profit/(loss) Income tax income number before taxation expense Principal subsidiary Main activity Total assets (in millions) of FTEs (in millions) (in millions) Netherlands ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Retail Banking 338,869 6,586 17,708 1,968 551 of which international activities 4,238 1 26 -4 France Banque Neuflize OBC S.A. Private Banking 5,399 331 988 73 20 Leadership Germany Bethmann Bank AG Private Banking 3,726 262 769 72 18 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Belgium Branch Belgium Private Banking 1,375 98 238 21 10 ABN AMRO Great Britain Commercial Finance Plc Corporate Banking 1,565 72 371 27 5 ABN AMRO Bank Luxembourg (Luxembourg) S.A. Private Banking 2,984 49 171 -1 -2 Governance ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Norway Oslo Branch Corporate Banking 3,310 77 29 42 11 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Jersey Jersey Branch Private Banking -8 5 40 -5 Guernsey ABN AMRO (Guernsey) Ltd. Private Banking 599 39 117 14 1 ABN AMRO Clearing United States Chicago LLC Corporate Banking 21,348 322 420 117 15 ABN AMRO Brasil Annual Financial Statements Brazil Participações Corporate Banking 259 58 82 9 5 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Singapore Branch Singapore Corporate Banking 10,973 186 507 74 5 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Hong Kong Branch Hong Kong Private Banking 4,167 111 272 25 3 ABN AMRO Clearing Tokyo Japan Co. Ltd. Corporate Banking 38 22 14 11 4 United Arab ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Emirates Branch UAE/DIFC Private Banking 587 43 96 3 ABN AMRO Clearing Australia Sydney Pty Ltd. Corporate Banking 200 17 53 8 2 Other Other -911 -50 2 -2 Total 394,482 8,227 21,877 2,456 650 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 288 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2015 Total Net profit/ operating Average (loss) for Income tax income number the year expense Strategy Principal subsidiary Main activity Total assets (in millions) of FTEs (in millions) (in millions) Netherlands ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Retail Banking 356,881 6,896 18,112 2,227 671 of which international activities 3,130 95 23 25 6 France Banque Neuflize OBC S.A. Private Banking 4,439 332 966 77 27 Business Germany Bethmann Bank AG Private Banking 2,999 293 730 100 15 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Belgium Branch Belgium ID&JG Private Banking 1,382 90 230 17 11 ABN AMRO Commercial Great Britain Finance Plc Corporate Banking 1,366 76 373 44 10 ABN AMRO Bank Luxembourg (Luxembourg) S.A. Private Banking 3,221 47 166 6 1 Risk, funding & capital ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Norway Oslo Branch Corporate Banking 2,796 59 28 41 12 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Jersey Jersey Branch Private Banking 616 43 61 30 2 Guernsey ABN AMRO (Guernsey) Ltd. Private Banking 381 34 93 13 1 ABN AMRO Clearing United States Chicago LLC Corporate Banking 19,295 265 381 115 34 ABN AMRO Brasil Brazil Participações Corporate Banking 138 24 80 -12 -6 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Singapore Branch Singapore Corporate Banking 9,646 178 465 87 12 Leadership ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Hong Kong Branch Hong Kong Private Banking 3,916 127 295 31 4 ABN AMRO Clearing Japan Tokyo Co. Ltd. Corporate Banking 60 17 14 10 2 United Arab ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Emirates Branch UAE/DIFC Private Banking 666 29 92 3 ABN AMRO Clearing Sydney Governance Australia Pty Ltd. Corporate Banking 369 16 54 6 2 Other -798 -72 2 -72 Total 407,373 8,455 22,142 2,722 798 No material government grants were received in 2015 and 2016. Annual Financial Statements 11 Earnings per share The following table shows the composition of basic earnings per share at 31 December. 2016 2015 Earnings Earnings Profit/(loss) Number per share Profit/(loss) Number per share (in millions) for the year of shares (in euros)1 for the year of shares (in euros)1 Basic earnings1 1,762 940 1.87 1,908 940 2.03 1 Earnings per share consist of profit for the year excluding coupons attributable to AT1 capital securities and results attributable to non-controlling interests divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 289 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ABN AMRO does not have any dilutive potential ordinary shares. Therefore, only basic earnings per ordinary shares is disclosed. Basic earnings per ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the profit Strategy attributable to the shareholders of ABN AMRO Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding. The earnings per share in 2016 amounted to EUR 1.87 (2015: EUR 2.03). This is a decrease of EUR 0.16 or 8%. Business A final dividend of EUR 0.44 per share will be proposed for 2016 (2015: EUR 0.44). Including the interim dividend paid on 17 August 2016 (EUR 376 million), the total dividend will amount to EUR 0.84 per share (2015: EUR 0.81). 12 Cash and balances at central banks Risk, funding & capital This item includes cash on hand and available demand balances with central banks in countries in which the bank has a presence. Mandatory reserve deposits are disclosed in note 19 Loans and receivables banks. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Cash on hand and other cash equivalents 444 535 Balances with central banks readily convertible in cash other than mandatory reserve deposits 21,417 25,660 Leadership Total cash and balances at central banks 21,861 26,195 Cash and balances at central banks decreased by EUR 4.3 billion to EUR 21.9 billion in 2016 compared with EUR 26.2 billion in 2015 due to lower outstanding of overnight positions placed at DNB. Governance 13 Financial assets and liabilities held for trading Accounting policy for financial assets and liabilities held for trading In accordance with IAS 39, all assets and liabilities held for trading are held at fair value with gains and losses in the changes of the fair value taken to net trading income in the income statement. Annual Financial Statements Financial assets held for trading The following table shows the composition of assets held for trading. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Trading securities: Government bonds 1,152 1,333 Corporate debt securities 400 335 Equity securities 35 19 Total trading securities 1,586 1,686 Trading book loans 21 19 Other Total assets held for trading 1,607 1,706 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 290 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Financial assets held for trading decreased by EUR 0.1 billion to EUR 1.6 billion at 31 December 2016. This decrease was due to a combination of lower government bonds (EUR 0.2 billion) and higher Strategy corporate debt securities (EUR 0.1 billion). The decrease in government bonds was mainly related to changes in Dutch, French and German positions. These portfolios are mainly a result of the primary dealership in these countries and for the purpose of client facilitation. Most of these contracts are hedged with short positions in corporate debt securities, government bonds and futures. Financial liabilities held for trading Business The following table shows the composition of liabilities held for trading. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Bonds 690 417 Risk, funding & capital Equity securities 33 19 Total short security positions 723 435 Other liabilities held for trading 67 24 Total liabilities held for trading 791 459 Financial liabilities held for trading increased by EUR 0.3 billion to EUR 0.8 billion at 31 December 2016. The increase resulted from higher short positions in bonds, mainly related to French government bonds and corporate debt securities. Leadership The fair value of assets pledged as security is shown in note 33. 14 Derivatives Accounting policy for Derivatives Governance Derivatives comprise derivatives held for trading and derivatives held for risk management purposes. Derivatives held for trading are closely related to facilitating the needs of our clients. A significant part of the derivatives in the trading portfolio is related to serving clients in their risk management to hedge, for example, currency or interest rate exposures. Furthermore, ABN AMRO offers products that are traded on the financial markets to institutional and individual clients and governments. Annual Financial Statements Derivatives held for risk management purposes include the fair value of all derivatives qualifying as hedging instruments in fair value hedges and in cash flow hedges, hedge accounting derivatives, as well as the fair value of derivatives related to assets and liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, economic hedges. A hedging instrument, for hedge accounting purposes, is a designated derivative whose fair value or cash flows are expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of a designated hedged item. From a risk perspective, the gross amount of trading assets must be associated together with the gross amount of trading liabilities, which are presented separately on the statement of Other financial position. However, IFRS does not allow netting of these positions in the statement of financial position. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 291 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Derivatives comprise the following: 31 December 2016 Strategy Total Derivatives held for trading Economic hedges Hedge accounting derivatives Interest Interest Interest (in millions) rate Currency Other rate Currency Other rate Currency Exchange traded Fair value assets 2 9 33 44 Business Fair value liabilities 6 17 22 Notionals 110 258 1,062 1,431 Over-the-counter Central counterparties Fair value assets Fair value liabilities Risk, funding & capital Notionals 695,879 5,436 134,496 835,811 Other bilateral Fair value assets 8,967 2,367 131 173 507 23 2,173 14,341 Fair value liabilities 6,883 2,555 96 96 660 88 4,126 14,504 Notionals 157,676 156,402 1,350 2,923 25,936 1,263 29,051 374,601 Total Fair value assets 8,969 2,367 140 173 507 56 2,173 14,384 Fair value liabilities 6,889 2,555 113 96 660 88 4,126 14,526 Leadership Notionals 853,666 156,402 1,608 8,359 25,936 2,325 163,547 1,211,843 31 December 2015 Total Derivatives held for trading Economic hedges Hedge accounting derivatives Interest Interest Interest (in millions) rate Currency Other rate Currency Other rate Currency Governance Exchange traded Fair value assets 1 7 1 9 Fair value liabilities 13 13 Notionals 255 9 191 1,315 1,770 Over-the-counter Annual Financial Statements Central counterparties Fair value assets Fair value liabilities Notionals 690,195 584 73,128 763,907 Other bilateral Fair value assets 12,413 2,073 240 242 499 19 3,339 304 19,129 Fair value liabilities 10,570 2,096 279 136 604 27 8,673 26 22,412 Notionals 194,759 181,503 2,038 3,430 26,356 1,434 74,961 560 485,042 Total Other Fair value assets 12,414 2,073 248 242 499 19 3,339 304 19,138 Fair value liabilities 10,570 2,096 292 136 604 27 8,673 26 22,425 Notionals 885,209 181,512 2,230 4,014 26,356 2,749 148,089 560 1,250,719 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 292 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Over-the-counter derivatives cleared with a CCP are not presented in our Statement of financial position. Strategy The notional amount of the interest derivatives held for trading as at 31 December 2016 amounted to EUR 853.7 billion, a decrease of EUR 31.5 billion compared with EUR 885.2 billion at 31 December 2015. This decrease was mainly due to lower client activity within Financial Institutions. As at 31 December 2016 the fair value of interest rate derivatives decreased mainly due to the conversion of (a large number of) bilateral trades to triparty clearing trades/CCPs. Business The notional amount of the currency derivatives held for trading at 31 December 2016 amounted to EUR 156.4 billion, a decrease of EUR 25.1 billion compared with EUR 181.5 billion at 31 December 2015. This decrease was mainly due to lower client activity caused by increased volatility of the foreign exchange market compared with 2015. The notional amount of the other derivatives held for trading at 31 December 2016 amounted to Risk, funding & capital EUR 1.6 billion, a decrease of EUR 0.6 billion compared with EUR 2.2 billion at 31 December 2015. The hedging strategies are explained in greater detail in note 15. 15 Hedge accounting Accounting policy for hedge accounting ABN AMRO enters into various derivative and non-derivative instrument transactions with Leadership external parties to hedge risks on assets, liabilities, forecasted cash flows and net investments. The accounting treatment of the hedged item and the hedging instrument depends on whether the hedge relationship qualifies for hedge accounting. Qualifying hedges may be designated as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments. A non-derivative financial asset or liability may be designated as a hedging Governance instrument for hedge accounting purposes only if it hedges the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The hedged item can be an asset, liability, highly probable forecasted transaction or net investment in a foreign operation that (a) exposes the entity to risk of changes in fair value or future cash flows and (b) is designated as being hedged. The risks being hedged (the hedged risks) are typically Annual Financial Statements changes in interest rates or foreign currency rates. ABN AMRO may also enter into credit risk derivatives (sometimes referred to as credit default swaps) for managing portfolio credit risk. However, these are generally not included in hedge accounting relationships. Both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, ABN AMRO formally assesses whether the derivatives used in its hedging transactions have been highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item, by assessing and measuring whether changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item are offset by the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging instrument. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 293 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Hedge ineffectiveness and gains and losses on components of a derivative that are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recorded directly in results from financial transactions Strategy as part of other income. ABN AMRO discontinues hedge accounting when the hedge relationship has ceased to be effective or is no longer expected to be effective, or when the derivative or hedged item is sold or otherwise terminated. Adoption of EU carved out version IAS 39 Micro fair value hedges is hedging of separate hedged items which can be assets and liabilities. Business For micro fair value hedging, ABN AMRO uses the ‘carved out’ version of IAS 39 as adopted by the European Union, which means that negative credit spreads are excluded in the hedge relationship for micro fair value hedging. Macro fair value hedging implies that a group of financial assets is reviewed in combination and jointly designated as the hedged item. However, the portfolio may, for risk management purposes, include Risk, funding & capital assets and liabilities. In this context, the starting difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the hedged item at the designation of the hedging relationship is amortised over the remaining life of the hedged item. For macro fair value hedging, ABN AMRO uses the carved out version of IAS 39 as adopted by the European Union, which removes some of the limitations on fair value hedges and the strict requirements on the effectiveness of those hedges. In this context, the impact of changes in the estimates of the re-pricing dates is only considered ineffective if it leads to over-hedging. Fair value hedges Where a derivative financial instrument hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of the Leadership hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted in relation to the risk being hedged. Gains or losses on re-measurement of both the hedging instrument and the hedged item are recognised in the income statement within results from financial transactions as part of other income. Hedge effectiveness for fair value hedges is measured as the amount by which the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are different from changes in the fair value of the hedged item. When a fair value hedge of interest rate risk is terminated, any value adjustment to the carrying Governance amount of the hedged item is amortised to profit or loss over the original designated hedging period, or taken directly to income if the hedged item is derecognised. Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument hedges the exposure to variability in the cash flows from a hedged item, the effective part of any gain or loss on re-measurement of the hedging instrument Annual Financial Statements is recognised directly in equity. Hedge effectiveness for cash flow hedges is measured as the amount by which the changes in the fair value of the derivative are in excess of changes in the fair value of the expected cash flow in the cash flow hedge. Any ineffective part of the cash flow hedge is recognised in other income immediately. When a cash flow hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity remains in equity. The cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement at the time when the hedged transaction affects net profit or loss and is included in the same line item as the hedged transaction. In the exceptional case that the hedged transaction is no longer Other expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement immediately. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 294 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Forecasted transactions When the hedging instrument effectively hedges a forecasted transaction or firm commitment, Strategy the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised in equity. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the income statement and classified as profit or loss in the periods during which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects the income statement. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or is otherwise discontinued, but the hedged forecasted transactions or firm commitments are still expected to occur, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. Hedging of net investments in foreign operations Business ABN AMRO may enter into foreign currency derivatives and currency borrowings to hedge various net investments in foreign operations. For such hedges, currency translation differences arising on translation of the currency of these instruments to euros are recognised directly in the currency translation reserve in equity, for the extent they are effective. The cumulative gain or loss recognised Risk, funding & capital in equity is transferred to the income statement on the disposal of the foreign operation. Hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting The fair value changes of derivative transactions used to hedge against economic risk exposures that do not qualify for hedge accounting, or for which it is not cost beneficial to apply hedge accounting, are recognised directly in profit or loss. Derivatives designated and accounted for as hedging instruments The following results from ineffectiveness are recognised in other income: (in millions) 2016 2015 Leadership Fair value hedges -4 63 Cash flow hedges -1 6 Net investment hedging 1 1 Total hedging results -4 71 The total hedge ineffectiveness results decreased by EUR 75 million compared to 2015. The hedge Governance ineffectiveness recognised in 2015 included a one-off gain resulting from the refinement of (in)effectiveness measurement in the fair value hedge models. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 295 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Overview of the fair value and notionals of hedging instruments Fair value hedges Cash flow hedges Economic hedges Strategy Notional Notional Notional amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value (in millions) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 31 December 2016 Derivatives for risk management purposes Business Interest rate 127,265 1,581 4,126 36,282 592 8,359 173 96 Currency 25,936 507 660 Other 2,325 56 88 Total 127,265 1,581 4,126 36,282 592 36,620 736 844 31 December 2015 Derivatives for risk Risk, funding & capital management purposes Interest rate 94,377 2,265 7,234 53,712 1,074 1,440 4,014 242 136 Currency 560 304 26 26,356 499 604 Other 2,749 19 27 Total 94,937 2,569 7,260 53,712 1,074 1,440 33,118 760 767 1 Note that the fair values represented in this table are the fair values as recognised in the statement of financial position. Because all over-the-counter derivatives are cleared with a CCP, these instruments have a fair value of zero and are represented by their notional amounts only. The fair value hedges increased to EUR 127.3 billion at 31 December 2016, up by EUR 32.3 billion Leadership compared with 2015 due to a transfer between cash flow hedging and fair value of EUR 25.3 billion with a negative fair value of EUR 1.25 billion. The decision to transfer is based on an analysis of market developments with respect to interest rates on liabilities due to customers. The analysis shows that looking forward, applying fair value hedging instead of cash flow hedging would result in hedge relationships with a higher effectiveness. The transfer is performed by revoking macro cash flow hedging relationships on a selection of liabilities due to customers and interest rate payer swaps Governance and designating these swaps in new macro fair value hedging relationships to mortgages.​ During 2016, ABN AMRO faced an increased duration profile on mortgages. In order to hedge the interest rate risk on mortgages, ABN AMRO has entered into long dated interest rate swaps. To correctly reflect its interest rate risk management strategy in its financial statements, these new interest rate swaps have been designated as hedging instruments in the macro fair value hedge model. Annual Financial Statements In 2016 several cross currency swaps were restructured into separate interest rate swaps and foreign exchange basis swaps. This restructuring was necessary because of a future risk of ineffectiveness for the foreign exchange part. The result of this restructure is that the position of currency fair value hedges is decreased to zero. In 2016 ABN AMRO reduced exposure on a large counterparty by entering into two opposing interest rate swaps, in effect transferring part of the original exposure to a different counterparty. As a result of these transactions, the notional amount included in interest rate economic hedges increased by EUR 4.3 billion to EUR 8.3 billion in 2016 compared to 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 296 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Fair value hedge accounting ABN AMRO applies fair value hedge accounting to individual hedged items (micro fair value hedging) Strategy as well as to a portfolio of hedged items (macro fair value hedging). Micro fair value hedge accounting Hedging instruments designated in individual fair value hedge relationships principally consist of interest rate swaps, interest rate options and cross currency interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed rate assets and fixed rate liabilities due to changes Business in market interest rates. For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the hedged item for the risk being hedged are recognised in the income statement. Net effect of gains/(losses) arising from fair value hedge accounting: Risk, funding & capital (in millions) 2016 2015 Gains/(losses) on the hedged assets attributable to the fair value hedged risk 490 -704 Gains/(losses) on hedging instruments used for the hedged assets -500 726 Gains/(losses) on the hedged liabilities attributable to the fair value hedged risk -42 691 Gains/(losses) on hedging instruments used for the hedged liabilities 22 -728 Net effect micro fair value hedge -31 -15 Due to a decrease in interest rate curves, the gains and losses on hedged items and hedging Leadership instruments in 2016 were opposite to those reported in 2015. Because hedged liabilities on average have shorter maturities and the short tenors on the interest curves showed a smaller decrease, the gains and losses on hedged liabilities are smaller than those for hedged assets. Macro fair value hedge accounting ABN AMRO hedges interest rate exposures of fixed-rate mortgages on a portfolio basis using Governance interest rate swaps. ABN AMRO applies a portfolio fair value hedge (‘macro fair value hedge accounting’) in which it designates interest rate swaps as hedging instruments and fixed-rate mortgages as hedged items. The hedge accounting relationship is reviewed and redesignated on a monthly basis. As a result of the hedge, changes in the hedged item’s fair value due to changes in the appropriate Annual Financial Statements benchmark interest rate will be booked to the income statement and will be offset by changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative financial instrument. Hedged mortgages are fixed-rate mortgages with the following features: ÅÅ denominated in local currency (euro); ÅÅ fixed term to maturity or repricing; ÅÅ pre-payable amortising or fixed principal amounts; ÅÅ fixed interest payment dates; ÅÅ no interest rate options; ÅÅ accounted for on an amortised cost basis. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 297 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Mortgages with these features form a portfolio of which the hedged item is designated in a fair value hedge accounting relationship. More than one group (or portfolio) of mortgages can be identified as Strategy the hedged item within the fixed-rate mortgage portfolio. Hedged items are designated on a monthly basis to maintain an effective hedge accounting relationship. Mortgage cash flows are allocated to monthly time buckets based on expected maturity dates. ABN AMRO models the maturity dates of mortgages taking into account a prepayment rate applied to the contractual cash flows and maturity dates of the mortgage portfolio. If the swap notional Business exceeds 95% of the expected mortgage notional in any given month, then mortgages that mature one month earlier or one month later are designated to the swaps. Changes in the fair value of mortgages which are attributable to the hedged interest rate risk are recorded under fair value adjustment from hedge accounting in order to adjust the carrying amount of the loan. The difference between the fair value attributable to the hedged interest rate risk and Risk, funding & capital the carrying value of the hedged mortgages at de-designation of the hedge relationship is amortised over the remaining life of the hedged item. (in millions) 2016 2015 Gains/(losses) on the hedged assets attributable to the fair value hedged risk -80 -408 Gains/(losses) on hedging instruments used for the hedged assets 106 487 Net effect macro fair value hedge 27 79 In 2016 the total gain/(losses) on cash flow hedges decreased by EUR 52 million mainly due to Leadership a transfer between cash flow hedging and fair value hedging. The absolute gains and losses on the hedged risk and hedging instruments in 2016 are smaller than in 2015 due to smaller changes in interest rate curves. Cash flow hedge accounting ABN AMRO applies macro cash flow hedge accounting by which it designates interest rate swaps Governance as hedging instruments and future cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities as hedged items. The hedge accounting relationship is reviewed on a monthly basis and the hedging instruments and hedged items are de-designated or re-designated if necessary to maintain an effective hedge accounting relationship. Future cash flows are derived from the projected balance sheet. This projected balance sheet is Annual Financial Statements produced by asset and liability management models and forms the basis for the management of interest rate risk. The model behind the projected balance sheet takes the contractual terms and conditions of financial assets and liabilities and combines these with estimated prepayments, growth rates and interest scenarios, based on statistical market and client data and an economic outlook. The primary interest-sensitive positions in the balance sheet stemming from the non-trading book are loans and receivables, liabilities due to banks and customers, and issued debt securities. Within the projected balance sheet, new assets and liabilities and the future re-pricing of existing assets and liabilities are grouped based on their specific interest rate index on which they reprice (i.e. one month, three months, six months, one year). Per repricing index all assets and liabilities are Other allocated to monthly clusters in which they reprice up until their maturity. Interest rate swaps are designated to these clusters based on their repricing index and maturity. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 298 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The notional amounts of payor receive-floating swaps are designated to repricing all or a portion of current and forecasted assets and liabilities, respectively, in the clusters described above. These swap Strategy transactions are designated for hedge accounting purposes as a hedge of a gross position of a cluster of projected cash flows. In addition, the swap will only hedge the applicable floating swap rate portion of the interest repricing and reinvestment risk of the cluster. The availability of projected cash flows in the clusters is not constant over time and therefore evaluated on a monthly basis. Changes in cash flow projections could lead to revision of the designation. Furthermore, back testing is performed on the interest rate risk sensitivity models. Historical data are used to review the assumptions applied. Hedge accounting ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement related to cash flow hedging Business amounted to a loss of EUR 1 million in 2016 (2015: profit of EUR 6 million). The maturity profile of forecast principal balances designated in the cash flow hedge is as follows: Risk, funding & capital More than More than More than 3 months but 1 year but 5 years but More than (in millions) Within 3 months within 1 year within 5 years within 10 years 10 years 31 December 2016 Assets 23,930 23,930 20,430 Liabilities 3,962 3,962 3,962 3,962 1,695 Net assets/liabilities 19,968 19,968 16,468 -3,962 -1,695 31 December 2015 Assets 21,155 21,155 21,155 Leadership Liabilities 24,382 18,965 9,135 9,135 2,500 Net assets/liabilities -3,227 2,190 12,020 -9,135 -2,500 The principal balances divided over several time buckets decreased by EUR 25 billion at 31 December 2016 compared with 2015 due to a transfer between cash flow hedging and fair value hedging. Governance Net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges transferred from equity to the income statement is as follows: (in millions) 2016 2015 Interest income 395 493 Interest expense 382 525 Annual Financial Statements Subtotal 13 -32 Tax expense 3 -8 Total gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 10 -24 In 2016 the total gain/(losses) on cash flow hedges increased by EUR 34 million mainly due to a transfer between cash flow hedging and fair value hedging. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 299 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 16 Financial investments Financial investments are classified as available-for-sale or as held at fair value through profit or loss. Accounting policy for available for sale investments Strategy Available-for-sale assets are held at fair value with unrealised gains and losses recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes. Interest earned, premiums, discounts and qualifying transaction costs of interest earning available-for-sale assets are amortised to income on an effective interest rate basis. When available-for-sale assets are sold, collected or Business impaired, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to other income in the income statement. Accounting policy for assets designated at fair value through profit and loss Financial investments managed on a fair value through profit or loss basis are designated at fair value through profit or loss when the instruments: Risk, funding & capital ÅÅ are held to reduce an accounting mismatch; ÅÅ include terms that have substantive derivative characteristics in nature; or​​​ ÅÅ ​​​​​​​are managed on the basis of its fair value. The composition of financial investments is as follows: (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Financial investments: Available-for-sale 44,719 39,772 Leadership Held at fair value through profit or loss 778 770 Total financial investments 45,497 40,542 Financial investments amounted to EUR 45.5 billion, an increase of EUR 5.0 billion (2015: EUR 40.5 billion). This increase was mainly caused by purchases in otherand non-OECD government bonds (EUR 1.3 billion), mortgage-backed securities (EUR 1 billion) Governance and securities issued by Financial Institutions (EUR 2.4 billion). Investments available for sale The fair value of the available-for-sale investments (including gross unrealised gains and losses) is specified as follows: Annual Financial Statements (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Interest-earning securities: Dutch government 6,592 6,540 US Treasury and US government 3,497 3,481 Other OECD government 20,987 20,265 Non OECD government 913 348 European Union 1,756 1,637 Mortgageand other asset-backed securities 3,244 2,318 Financial institutions 7,220 4,805 Non-financial institutions 59 28 Subtotal Other 44,267 39,422 Equity instruments 473 373 Total investments available-for-sale 44,740 39,795 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 300 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Most of these instruments are part of the liquidity buffer and are held for liquidity contingency purposes. More information on the liquidity buffer composition can be found in the Risk, funding Strategy & capital section. In 2016 an amount of EUR 82 million in equity accounted investments was reclassified to equity instruments in financial investments available for sale. Government bonds by country of origin 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Business Gross Gross unrealised unrealised gains/(losses) gains/(losses) and fair value and fair value hedges gains/ hedges gains/ (in millions) (losses)1 Impairments Fair value (losses)1 Impairments Fair value Risk, funding & capital Dutch national government 869 6,592 760 6,540 French national government 348 4,881 334 4,273 German national government 629 4,774 468 4,246 Belgian national government 367 3,387 326 3,077 Finnish national government 252 2,395 212 2,170 Austrian national government 331 1,764 340 1,771 USA national government -1 3,497 -3 3,481 Japanese national government 1,104 1,968 European Union bonds 180 1,756 180 1,637 Leadership Italian national government 39 653 43 408 Spanish national government 500 503 Polish national government 130 421 118 442 Swedish national government 5 260 5 356 Great Britain national government 96 272 72 276 Danish national government 1 101 269 Hong Kong 370 60 Governance Luxembourg national government 20 151 17 148 Brazil national government 156 109 Singapore national government 386 178 Canadian national government 16 324 2 356 Total government bonds 3,281 33,745 2,875 32,271 1 Of the total gross unrealised gains/(losses), fair value hedge accounting was applied for an amount of EUR 2.7 billion (2015: EUR 2.5 billion) and recognised in profit or loss. In 2016 net gains of EUR 546 million (2015: gains EUR 342 million) were recognised in Equity. Annual Financial Statements No impairment charges were recorded on these government bonds. More information on country risk positions is provided in the Risk, funding & capital section. Critical accounting estimates and judgements Interest-bearing securities and equities classified as available-for-sale investments are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether they are impaired. For equities this review considers factors such as the credit standing and prospects of the issuer, any reduction in fair value below cost, its direction and whether the reduction is significant or prolonged. In general, triggers used Other for a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below cost are 20% and 9 months respectively. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 301 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction An interest-bearing security is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an event since initial recognition of the asset has adversely affected the amount Strategy or timing of future cash flows from the asset. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt security classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the profit and loss account, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. Impairment losses recognised on equity instruments can never be reversed through the Business income statement. Investments designated at fair value through profit or loss The following table provides information at 31 December about the investments that are held Risk, funding & capital at fair value and for which unrealised gains or losses are recorded through profit or loss. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Government bonds 134 Corporate debt securities 2 4 Private equities and venture capital 731 577 Equity securities 45 54 Total investments held at fair value through profit or loss 778 770 Leadership The decrease in government bonds is mainly related to Dutch government bonds, as a result of primary dealership in the Netherlands and client facilitation. In Corporate Banking, some private equity investments are measured at fair value through profit or loss, reflecting the business of investing in financial assets to benefit from their total return in the form of interest or dividend and changes in fair value. Governance 17 Securities financing Accounting policy for securities financing Securities financing consists of securities borrowing and lending and sale and repurchase Annual Financial Statements transactions. Securities borrowing and securities lending transactions are generally entered into on a collateralised basis, with securities usually advanced or received as collateral. The transfer of the securities themselves is not reflected in the statement of financial position unless the risks and rewards of ownership are also transferred. If cash is advanced or received, securities borrowing and lending activities are recorded at the amount of cash advanced (included in loans and receivables) or received (due to banks or customers). The market value of the securities borrowed or lent is monitored on a daily basis, and the collateral levels are adjusted in accordance with the underlying transactions. Fees and interest received or paid are recognised on an effective interest basis and recorded as interest income or interest expense. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 302 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Sale and repurchase transactions involve purchases (or sales) of investments with agreements to resell (or repurchase) substantially identical investments at a certain date in the future at a fixed Strategy price. Investments purchased subject to commitments to resell them at future dates are not recognised. The amounts paid are recognised in loans and receivables to either banks or customers and are shown as collateralised by the underlying security. Investments sold under repurchase agreements continue to be recognised in the statement of financial position. Proceeds from the sale of the investments are reported as liabilities to either Business banks or customers. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is recognised over the period of the transaction and recorded as interest income or interest expense, using the effective interest rate method. If borrowed securities are sold to third parties, the proceeds from the sale and a liability for the obligation to return the collateral are recorded at fair value. Risk, funding & capital 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions) Banks Customers Banks Customers Assets Reverse repurchase agreements 954 8,725 2,415 8,185 Securities borrowing transactions 3,731 3,252 4,445 3,970 Unsettled securities transactions 297 632 131 916 Total 4,981 12,608 6,991 13,071 Liabilities Repurchase agreements 2,007 6,059 1,877 6,153 Leadership Securities lending transactions 616 1,891 1,138 1,536 Unsettled securities transactions 44 1,008 117 552 Total 2,667 8,958 3,132 8,240 Securities financing transactions include balances relating to reverse repurchase activities and cash collateral on securities borrowed. ABN AMRO controls credit risk associated with these activities by Governance monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral values on a daily basis and requiring additional collateral to be deposited with or returned to ABN AMRO when deemed necessary. The movements of securities financing assets and liabilities with banks and customers are a result of the cyclicality of the business. Annual Financial Statements Items of securities financing transactions which ABN AMRO can repledge or resell are included in note 33 Transferred, pledged, encumbered and restricted assets. 18 Fair value of financial instruments carried at fair value Accounting policy for fair value of financial instruments The fair value is defined as the price that would be received when selling an asset or paid when transferring a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 303 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction For financial instruments that are actively traded and for which quoted market prices or market parameters are readily available, the fair value is determined in a highly objective manner. However, Strategy when observable market prices and parameters do not exist, management judgement is necessary to estimate fair value. For financial instruments where no active liquid market exists, or quoted prices are unobtainable, recent market transactions are used or the fair value is estimated using a variety of valuation techniques – including reference to similar instruments for which market prices do exist, or to Business valuation models such as discounted cash flow calculation or option pricing models (e.g. Black Scholes). When portfolios of financial assets and liabilities are measured on the basis of the net exposure to the credit risk of a particular counterparty, then any existing arrangements that mitigate the credit risk exposure (e.g. master netting agreements with the counterparty) are taken into account. Risk, funding & capital Unobservable inputs are estimated using a combination of management judgement, historical data, market practice and benchmarking to other relevant observable market data. The difference between the transaction price and the internal valuation at inception, calculated using a model, is reserved and amortised to profit or loss at appropriate points over the life of the instrument, typically taking account of the ability to obtain reliable external data, the passage of time and the use of offsetting transactions. Where inputs to the valuation of a new transaction cannot be reliably determined, the transaction is initially recognised at its transaction price. Subsequent changes in fair value as calculated by the valuation model are reported as profit or loss or in equity. Leadership In order to determine a reliable fair value, where appropriate, management applies valuation adjustments to the pricing information derived from the above sources. These adjustments reflect management’s assessment of factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, to the extent that these factors have not already been included in the information from the above sources. The main valuation adjustments required to arrive at a fair value are as follows: Governance ÅÅ Credit and debit valuation adjustments. In addition to credit valuation for loans valued as at fair value through profit or loss, credit valuation adjustments and debit valuation adjustments are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the impact on fair value of counterparty credit risk and own credit quality respectively; ÅÅ Funding valuation adjustment. The funding valuation adjustment incorporates the incremental cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised and partially collateralised derivatives; Annual Financial Statements ÅÅ Own credit adjustment. An own credit adjustment is applied to positions where it is believed that counterparties will consider ABN AMRO’s creditworthiness when pricing trades; ÅÅ Model valuation adjustments for any known limitations. Management assesses the appropriateness of any model used on an ongoing basis. To the extent that the price provided by internal models does not represent the fair value of the instrument, for instance in highly stressed market conditions, management makes adjustments to the model valuation to calibrate to other available pricing sources. We believe our estimates of the fair value are adequate. However, the use of different models or assumptions could result in changes to our reported results. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 304 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Internal controls over fair value ABN AMRO has designated controls and processes for determining the fair value of financial Strategy instruments. A process has been designed to ensure there are formalised review protocols for independent review and validation of fair values separate from those businesses entering into the transactions. This includes specific controls to ensure consistent pricing policies and procedures, incorporating disciplined price verification for both market and counterparty risk trades. The business entering into the transaction is responsible for the initial determination and recording Business of the fair value of the transaction. There are daily controls over the profit or loss recorded by trading and treasury front-office staff. A key element of the control environment, segregated from the recording of the transaction’s valuation, is the independent price verification process. Valuations are first calculated by the business. Such valuations may be current bid or offer prices in an active market, or may be derived Risk, funding & capital using a model and variable model inputs. These valuations are reviewed, and if necessary amended, in the independent price verification process. This process involves a team independent of those trading the financial instruments performing a review of valuations in the light of available pricing evidence. Independent price verification is frequently performed by matching the business valuations with independent data sources. For liquid instruments the process is performed daily. Reviews for both trading positions and non-trading positions are performed at least once a month. The independent price verification control includes formalised reporting and escalation to management of any valuation differences in breach of defined thresholds. When models are used to value products, those models are subject to a model review process. This process requires different levels of model Leadership documentation, testing and review, depending on the complexity of the model and the size of our exposure to the model. Valuation techniques A number of methodologies are used to determine the fair value of financial instruments for which observable prices in active markets for identical instruments are not available. Values between and Governance beyond available data points are obtained by interpolation and/or extrapolation. When using valuation techniques, the fair value can be significantly impacted by the choice of valuation model and underlying assumptions made concerning factors such as the amount and timing of cash flows, discount rates and credit risk. Interest rate derivatives Annual Financial Statements This category includes interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, options and forward rate agreements. These products are valued by estimating future cash flows and discounting those cash flows using appropriate interest rate curves. Except for interest option contracts which are valued using market standard option pricing models. The inputs for the discounting cash flow models are principally observable benchmark interest rates in active markets such as the interbank rates and quoted interest rates in the swap, bond and futures markets. The inputs for credit spreads – where available – are derived from prices of credit default swaps or other credit-based instruments, such as debt securities. For others, credit spreads are obtained from pricing services. The additional inputs for the option pricing models are price volatilities and correlations which are obtained from broker quotations, pricing services or derived from option prices. Because of the observability of the inputs Other used in the valuation models, the majority of the interest rate derivative contracts are classified as ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 305 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction level 2. If adjustments to interest rate curves, credit spreads, correlations or volatilities are based on significant unobservable inputs, the contracts are classified as level 3. Exchange traded options and Strategy futures are valued using quoted market prices and hence classified as level 1. Foreign exchange contracts Foreign exchange contracts include foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign exchange options and foreign exchange swaps. The majority of the foreign exchange contracts at ABN AMRO are traded as over-the-counter derivatives. These instruments are valued using foreign currency exchange Business rates. There are observable markets both for spot and forward contracts and futures in the world’s major currencies. Therefore the over-the-counter foreign exchange contracts are classified as level 2. Government debt securities Government debt securities consist of government bonds and bills with both fixed or floating rate interest payments issued by sovereign governments. These instruments are generally traded in Risk, funding & capital active markets and prices can be derived directly from those markets. Therefore the instruments are classified as level 1. Highly liquid bonds are valued using exchange traded prices. Less liquid bonds are valued using observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing services. For a minority of the government debt securities active market prices are not available. In these cases ABN AMRO uses discounted cash flow valuation techniques that incorporate observable market data for similar government instruments. The main inputs are interest rate curves, liquidity spreads and credit spreads. The instruments for which this method applies are classified as level 2. If adjustments to any of the main inputs are made based on significant unobservable inputs the instrument is classified as level 3. Leadership Corporate debt securities Corporate debt securities primarily consist of corporate bonds and other debt securities issued by corporate entities. Most of these instruments are standard fixed or floating rate securities. Corporate debt securities are generally valued using observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing services. These instruments are classified as level Governance 1. If observable market prices are not available, ABN AMRO uses discounted cash flow valuation techniques based on inputs derived from comparable instruments and credit default swap data of the issuer to estimate credit spreads. These instruments are classified as level 2. Equity instruments The equity instruments that are actively traded on public stock exchanges are valued using the Annual Financial Statements readily available quoted prices and therefore classified as level 1. Investments in private equity funds are initially recognised at their transaction price and re-measured to the extent reliable information is available on a case-by-case basis and are classified as level 3. Unit-linked investments Unit-linked investments allow life insurance policyholders to invest indirectly, through a life insurance contract, in a pool of assets. The policyholders are exposed to all risks and rewards associated with the underlying asset pool. The amounts due to policyholders equal the fair value of the underlying asset pool and are represented by the financial liability. The fair values of life insurance contract liabilities are determined by reference to the fair value of the underlying assets. Actively traded Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 306 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction unit-linked investments are valued using publicly and daily quoted prices and hence classified as level 1. The unit-linked investments for which there are no observable market prices are classified Strategy as level 2. Their value is determined by adjusting quoted prices for credit and/or liquidity risk. Issued debt Issued debt securities are valued using discounted cash flow models based on current interest rate curves which incorporate observable inputs. These instruments are classified as level 2. Business ABN AMRO refines and modifies its valuation techniques as markets and products develop and as the pricing for individual products becomes more or less readily available. While ABN AMRO believes its valuation techniques are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions could result in different estimates of the fair value at the reporting date. Risk, funding & capital Fair value hierarchy ABN AMRO analyses financial instruments held at fair value in the three categories described below. Level 1 financial instruments are those that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. Level 2 financial instruments are those valued using techniques based primarily on observable market data. Instruments in this category are valued using quoted prices for similar instruments Leadership or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active; or valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data. Level 3 financial instruments are those valued using a valuation technique where at least one input, which has a significant effect on the instrument’s valuation, is not based on observable market data. Governance The effect of fair value adjustments on the instrument’s valuation is included in the assessment. ABN AMRO recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as at the end of the reporting period during which the change occurred. The following table presents the valuation methods used in determining the fair value of financial Annual Financial Statements instruments carried at fair value. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 307 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Quoted Valuation Quoted Valuation market Valuation techniquesmarket Valuation techniquesprices in techniquessignificant Strategy prices in techniquessignificant active observable unobservable Total fair active observable unobservable Total fair (in millions) markets inputs inputs value markets inputs inputs value Assets Government debt securities 1,152 1,152 1,333 1,333 Corporate debt securities 389 11 400 335 335 Equity securities 35 35 19 19 Business Other financial assets held for trading 21 21 19 19 Financial assets held for trading 1,576 31 1,607 1,686 19 1,706 Interest rate derivatives 2 11,064 76 11,141 1 15,734 18 15,753 Foreign exchange contracts 2,350 17 2,367 2,377 2,377 Other derivatives Risk, funding & capital 42 820 14 876 8 960 39 1,007 Derivatives 44 14,233 107 14,384 9 19,071 58 19,138 Government debt securities 134 134 Equity instruments 45 730 775 54 577 631 Other 2 3 4 4 Financial investments designated at fair value through profit or loss 47 731 778 192 577 770 Government debt securities 33,324 421 33,745 31,801 60 409 32,271 Leadership Corporate debt securities 6,013 1,227 38 7,279 3,771 1,026 36 4,833 Equity instruments 218 59 174 451 110 160 79 350 Other debt securities 2,519 724 3,244 1,489 829 2,318 Financial assets available for sale 42,075 1,286 1,358 44,719 37,172 1,247 1,354 39,772 Unit-linked investments 2,219 1,056 3,275 1,639 904 2,543 Governance Total financial assets 45,961 16,606 2,196 64,763 40,698 21,241 1,989 63,928 Liabilities Short positions in Government debt securities 390 390 281 281 Corporate debt securities 294 6 300 136 136 Equity securities 33 33 19 19 Other financial liabilities held Annual Financial Statements for trading 67 67 24 24 Financial liabilities held for trading 717 73 791 435 24 459 Interest rate derivatives 6 11,009 11,015 19,244 19,244 Foreign exchange contracts 2,555 2,555 2,122 2,122 Other derivatives 17 926 14 957 27 993 39 1,059 Derivatives 22 14,490 14 14,526 27 22,359 39 22,425 Issued debt 1,398 241 1,639 1,715 1,715 Unit-linked for policyholders 2,219 1,056 3,275 1,639 904 2,543 Other Total financial liabilities 2,959 17,017 255 20,231 2,101 25,002 39 27,142 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 308 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Transfers between levels 1 and 2 There were no material transfers between levels 1 and 2. Strategy Transfers from levels 1 and 2 into 3 In 2016 there was a transfer of EUR 241 million of issued debt from level 2 to level 3. The transfer was carried out because there were no or only limited publicly quoted prices available for these specific instruments. Business Other transfers In 2016 there were no other material transfers between levels. In 2015, EUR 781 million of loans originally classified as held for trading were reclassified to loans and receivables. As a result of this reclassification these loans are no longer measured at fair value but at amortised cost. Risk, funding & capital Movements in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value The following table shows a reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of level 3 financial assets that are carried at fair value. Assets Liabilities Financial investments Leadership designated Financial at fair value investments through Derivatives Derivatives Derivatives available for profit or held for not held for not held for (in millions) sale loss trading trading trading Issued debt Balance at 1 January 2015 1,668 271 66 64 Purchases 1 68 Sales -104 -119 -9 Governance Redemptions -204 -28 Gains/(losses) recorded in profit and loss1 24 Unrealised gains/(losses) -13 59 -12 -26 -26 Transfer between levels 5 40 Other movements2 1 302 Balance at 31 December 2015 1,354 577 18 39 39 Annual Financial Statements Purchases 2 122 Sales -2 -55 Redemptions -101 -30 Gains/(losses) recorded in profit and loss1 2 28 Unrealised gains/(losses) 4 16 2 -25 -25 -4 Transfer between levels 72 245 Other movements3 99 74 Balance at 31 December 2016 1,358 731 93 14 14 241 1 Included in other operating income. 2 In 2015 an amount of EUR 280 million investments in venture capital was reclassified from equity accounted associates to financial investments. 3 In 2016 an amount of EUR 82 million in investments in venture capital was reclassified from equity accounted associates and corporate loans to financial investments. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 309 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Level 3 sensitivity information Equities designated at fair value through profit or loss​​​​​​​ Government bonds-Corporate debt securities Strategy ABN AMRO has a position in a Polish bond, denominated in euros (in note 16 Financial investments part of other OECD government), for which the market is relatively illiquid. The bond is valued using a discounted cash flow model. The main inputs are the interest rate curve, liquidity spread and credit spread. The valuation spread is determined using an internal model. The sensitivity analysis is Business performed by using a range of reasonable valuation spreads. Other Debt securities consist of non-listed residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS). These are structured in such a way that prepayments on the underlying mortgage portfolio are used to repay the holder of the A-note. The fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow model based on inputs Risk, funding & capital such as the interest rate curve, discount spread and prepayment rate. The prepayment rate is identified as a significant unobservable input. The sensitivity analysis is performed by stressing this rate. Preferred shares are shares for which the dividend is fixed for a period of 10 years, after which the dividend is redetermined and the shares can also be redeemed. The position is valued using a discounted cash flow model for which the relevant inputs are the interest curve, liquidity spread and credit spread. The liquidity spread and credit spread are unobservable inputs and are derived from similar securities. The sensitivity of the preferred shares is determined by using a range of reasonable spreads and by considering the call option that is held by the issuer. Leadership Equity shares-preferred shares Equities designated at fair value through profit and loss classified as level 3 mainly comprise private equity investments. Private equity shares are designated at fair value, for which two calculation techniques apply: Governance ÅÅ Using comparable pricing in accordance with the European Private Equity and Venture Capitalist Association (EVCA) guidelines. This valuation technique is based on earnings multiples of comparable listed and unlisted companies. The fair value calculation of an investment is strongly linked with movements on the public markets and share markets; ÅÅ Net Asset Value (NAV) for fund investments and asset backed investments. This is determined by using audited and unaudited company financial statements and any other information available, Annual Financial Statements public or otherwise. As a consequence, the net asset value calculation of an investment is strongly linked with movements in the quarterly performance of the company. No other quantitative information (e.g. future cash flow information) is available and is therefore not included. New investments are initially valued at fair value and subsequently at cost for the first year of investment. Thereafter, the fair value technique, either EVCA technique or NAV calculation, will be applied for direct investments. The sensitivity for using comparable pricing is determined by stressing the earnings multiples in Other a positive and negative market scenario, whereas sensitivity testing for the NAV calculation based upon the quarterly performance cannot be applied. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 310 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Derivatives Securitisation swaps linked to the RMBS transactions are valued using a discounted cash flow Strategy model for which the behaviour of the underlying mortgage portfolio is also relevant. Inputs used to determine fair value are the interest rate curve and prepayment rate. The latter is the significant unobservable input that classifies these instruments as level 3. The sensitivity analysis is performed by stressing the prepayment rate. Interest rate swaps related to RMBS transactions are valued based on assumptions about Business the behaviour of the underlying mortgage portfolio and the characteristics of the transaction. Cash flows are forecast and discounted using appropriate forward and discount curves. A credit valuation adjustment (CVA) reflects counterparty credit risk in the fair value measurement of uncollateralised and partially collateralised OTC derivatives. For counterparties that do not have an observable credit spread ABN AMRO applies a proxied credit spread extracted from counterparties Risk, funding & capital of comparable credit quality that do have an observable credit spread. ABN AMRO performs a probability of default assessment for each counterparty and allocates an appropriate internal credit risk measure known as a uniform counterparty rating (UCR). This UCR, which is significant to the entire fair value measurement of the derivative contracts included in the following table of level 3 sensitivity information, is internally generated and is therefore an unobservable input. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 311 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Reasonably possible Valuation Unobservable Carrying Weighted alternative technique data value average assumptions Strategy Increase Decrease Minimum Maximum in fair in fair (in millions) range range value value 31 December 2016 Private equityEBITDA Equity shares valuation multiples 186 4.0 6.0 5.1 14 -14 Private Business equityNet asset Equity shares valuation value 719 25 -27 Interest earning securitiesDiscounted Liquidity and Government bonds cash flow credit spread 421 85 102 95 5 -7 Discounted Prepayment Interest earning securities-other cash flow rate 763 7.8% 15.0% 10.4% 3 -5 Discounted Probability of Risk, funding & capital Derivatives held for trading cash flow default 93 0.3% 100.0% 71.6% 9 -8 Derivatives not held for tradingDiscounted Prepayment assets/liabilities (net) cash flow rate 7.8% 15.0% 10.4% Discounted Issued debt cash flow Credit spread 241 97 130 110 7 -3 31 December 2015 Private equityEBITDA Equity shares valuation multiples 47 5.0 6.5 5.9 12 -12 Private Leadership equityNet asset Equity shares valuation value 609 32 -32 Interest earning securitiesDiscounted Liquidity and Government bonds cash flow credit spread 409 59 bps 90 bps 80 bps 13 -4 Discounted Prepayment Interest earning securities-other cash flow rate 865 7.3% 10.1% 9.1% 7 -3 Governance Discounted Probability of Derivatives held for trading cash flow default 18 0.6% 100.0% 52.1% -4 Derivatives not held for tradingDiscounted Prepayment assets/liabilities (net) cash flow rate 1 7.3% 10.1% 9.1% Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 312 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 19 Loans and receivables-banks Accounting policy for loans and receivables from banks and customers According to IAS 39 Financial Instruments, loans and receivables from banks and customers are Strategy held at amortised cost, i.e. fair value at initial recognition adjusted for repayment and amortisation of coupon, fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the asset. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing deposits 5,041 4,841 Business Loans and advances 5,162 8,114 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 306 313 Other 2,978 2,414 Subtotal 13,488 15,682 Risk, funding & capital Less: loan impairment allowance 3 2 Loans and receivables-banks 13,485 15,680 Loans and receivables-banks decreased by EUR 2.2 billion to EUR 13.5 billion at 31 December 2016, mainly as a result of a decrease in the loans and advances. Loans and advances decreased by EUR 3.0 billion to EUR 5.2 billion at 31 December 2016. The decrease was caused as certain bilateral contracts with other banks were changed to contracts that are settled daily at a Central Counter Party (CCP). As a consequence, the related collateral under Leadership the old contracts was released. This decrease was partly offset by more pledged cash collateral by other collateralised counterparties. This higher cash collateral was driven by the increase in the held for trading financial liabilities of these counterparties. Other loans and receivables-banks increased by EUR 0.6 billion to EUR 3.0 billion at 31 December 2016 mainly due to an increase in the purchase of trade bills. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 313 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 20 Loans and receivables-customers Strategy The accounting policy for loans and receivables is included in note 19. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Residential mortgages (excluding fair value adjustment) 149,255 148,465 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting on residential mortgages 3,073 3,401 Residential mortgages, gross 152,328 151,866 Business Less: loan impairment allowances-residential mortgage loans 258 324 Residential mortgages 152,069 151,543 Consumer loans, gross 12,539 15,147 Less: loan impairment allowances-consumer loans 433 561 Consumer loans 12,106 14,587 Corporate loans 90,920 100,387 Risk, funding & capital Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting on corporate loans 1,722 1,448 Financial lease receivables 4,069 3,659 Factoring 2,321 1,866 Corporate loans, gross 99,031 107,359 Less: loan impairment allowances-corporate loans 2,973 3,470 Corporate loans 96,058 103,889 Government and official institutions 1,445 1,558 Other loans 6,003 4,799 Other loans and receivables customers, gross 7,448 6,357 Less: loan impairment allowances-other 2 1 Leadership Other loans and receivables customers 7,445 6,357 Loans and receivables-customers 267,679 276,375 ​Loans and receivables-customers decreased by EUR 8.7 billion to EUR 267.7 billion at 31 December 2016. Residential mortgages (excluding fair value adjustments) increased by EUR 0.8 billion to Governance EUR 149.3 billion at 31 December 2016. Inflow of new residential mortgages reflecting the improvement of the housing market in the Netherlands is partly offset by mortgage redemptions and voluntary repayments. In addition, ABN AMRO adjusted its treatment of the bank savings mortgages. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies: Offsetting. Consumer loans, gross decreased by EUR 2.6 billion to EUR 12.5 billion, mainly in Private Banking Annual Financial Statements (EUR 2.1 billion) due to the planned sale of activities in Asia and the Middle East. More information is provided in note 24 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale. Corporate loans, gross decreased by EUR 8.3 billion to EUR 99.0 billion. ABN AMRO adjusted the implementation of its offsetting treatment of notional cash pooling agreements, more information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies: Offsetting. Corporate loans decreased in connection with the planned sales within Private Banking. More information is provided in note 24 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale. Other loans and receivable customers increased by EUR 1.1 billion to EUR 7.4 billion, due mainly to Other higher outstandings at CCPs for the purpose of margin requirements and default fund contributions. Details of loan impairments are provided in the Risk, funding & capital section. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 314 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 21 Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value Strategy The categorisation and valuation of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 18. The following methods and significant assumptions have been applied to estimate the fair values for the disclosure of financial instruments carried at amortised cost: ÅÅ The fair value of variable rate financial instruments and financial instruments with a fixed rate Business maturing within six months of the reporting date are assumed to be a reasonable approximation of their carrying amounts, which are net of impairment; ÅÅ The fair value of demand deposits and savings accounts (both included under due to customers) with no specific maturity is assumed to be the amount payable on demand at the reporting date; ÅÅ The fair value of the other loans to customers and loans to banks that are repriced frequently and have had no significant changes in credit risk is estimated using carrying amounts that are Risk, funding & capital assumed to be a reasonable representation of the fair value. The fair value of other loans is estimated by discounted cash flow models based on interest rates that apply to similar instruments; ÅÅ The fair value of issued debt securities and subordinated liabilities is based on quoted prices. If these are not available, the fair value is based on independent quotes from market participants for the debt issuance spreads above average interbank offered rates (at a range of tenors) which the market would demand when purchasing new senior or sub‑debt issuances from ABN AMRO. Where necessary, these quotes are interpolated using a curve shape derived from CDS prices. The following table presents the type of valuation techniques used in determining the fair value of Leadership financial instruments carried at amortised cost. In addition, the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost is compared with their estimated fair value based on the assumptions mentioned above. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 315 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2016 Carrying value Total fair value Difference Valuation Strategy Valuation techniquesQuoted market techniquessignificant prices in observable unobservable (in millions) active markets inputs inputs Assets Cash and balances at central banks 21,861 21,861 21,861 Securities financing 17,589 17,589 17,589 Business Loans and receivables-banks 13,485 4,503 8,982 13,485 Loans and receivables-customers 267,679 6,645 270,216 276,861 9,182 Total 320,614 50,598 279,198 329,796 9,182 Liabilities Securities financing 11,625 11,625 11,625 Due to banks 13,419 3,209 10,210 13,419 Risk, funding & capital Due to customers 228,758 612 228,146 228,758 Issued debt 79,639 31,615 48,942 80,557 -918 Subordinated liabilities 11,171 5,762 5,998 11,759 -588 Total 344,613 37,377 70,386 238,356 346,119 -1,506 31 December 2015 Carrying value Total fair value Difference Valuation Valuation techniquesQuoted market techniquessignificant Leadership prices in active observable unobservable (in millions) markets inputs inputs Assets Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 26,195 Securities financing 20,062 20,062 20,062 Loans and receivables-banks 15,680 7,304 8,375 15,679 Loans and receivables-customers 276,375 7,321 278,409 285,730 9,355 Governance Total 338,312 60,882 286,785 347,667 9,355 Liabilities Securities financing 11,372 11,372 11,372 Due to banks 14,630 3,842 10,788 14,630 Due to customers 247,353 226 247,127 247,353 Issued debt 74,492 31,638 43,810 75,448 -957 Annual Financial Statements Subordinated liabilities 9,708 5,285 4,789 10,074 -366 Total 357,555 36,923 64,040 257,915 358,877 -1,322 During the first half of 2016 the Group reclassified cash collateral received from or paid to counterparties in relation to Credit Support Annexes (CSA) from level 3 to level 2 due to a refinement in measurement. This impacts loans and receivables-banks and loans and receivables-customers as well as due to banks and due to customers in the table above. The comparative amounts have been reclassified accordingly. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 316 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 22 ABN AMRO group structure Accounting policy for business combinations The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method when control is Strategy transferred to the Group. All items of consideration, including contingent consideration, transferred by ABN AMRO are measured and recognised at fair value as of the acquisition date. Transaction costs incurred by ABN AMRO in connection with the business combination, other than those associated with the issuance of debt and equity securities, do not form part of the cost of the Business business combination transaction but are expensed as incurred. The excess of the purchase consideration over ABN AMRO’s share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired (including certain contingent liabilities) is recorded as goodwill. ABN AMRO measures the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the fair value at the date of acquisition. In a step acquisition, where a business combination occurs in stages and control of the business is Risk, funding & capital obtained in stages, the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree are recognised at fair value when control is obtained. A gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss for the difference between the fair value of the previously held equity interest in the acquiree and its carrying amount. Changes in interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a change of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity. Assets and liabilities of acquisitions and divestments The following table provides details on the assets and liabilities resulting from the acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries and equity-accounted investments at the date of acquisition or disposal. Leadership 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions) Acquisitions Divestments Acquisitions Divestments Assets and liabilities of acquisitions and divestments Loans and receivables-banks 3 Governance Equity accounted investments 29 26 25 -103 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1 Other assets 354 Other liabilities -354 Non-controlling interests -1 Net assets acquired/Net assets divested 31 26 25 -103 Annual Financial Statements Result on divestments, gross 81 28 Cash used for acquisitions/received from divestments: Total purchase consideration/Proceeds from sale -31 56 -25 132 Cash and cash equivalents acquired/divested 3 Cash used for acquisitions/received from divestments -28 56 -25 132 Acquisitions and divestments include increases and decreases in the investments in several equity accounted investments for 2016 and 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 317 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Acquisitions in 2016 ABN AMRO obtained the remaining 30% of the shares in ABN AMRO Pensioeninstelling N.V. Strategy As a result, ABN AMRO has control and ABN AMRO Pensioeninstelling N.V. is consolidated as of the first quarter of 2016. An amount of EUR 2 million in goodwill was recognised. ABN AMRO Pensioeninstelling N.V. is a private pension company. Divestments in 2016 As a result of the merger of Equens SE and Worldline SA on 30 September 2016, ABN AMRO’s Business interest in Equens SE has been diluted from 18.4% to 7.0% and is therefore reclassified from equity accounted investment to financial investment available for sale at fair value. Acquisitions in 2015 No major assets and liabilities were acquired in 2015. Risk, funding & capital Divestments in 2015 ABN AMRO no longer has an associate interest in RFS Holdings B.V., as the underlying assets and liabilities have been sold. Composition of the group Accounting policy for subsidiaries ABN AMRO Group’s subsidiaries are those entities which it directly or indirectly controls. Control over an entity is evidenced by ABN AMRO’s ability to exercise its power in order to Leadership affect the variable returns that ABN AMRO is exposed to through its involvement with the entity. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account when assessing whether control exists. The assessment of control is based on the consideration of all facts and circumstances. The Group reassesses whether it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes Governance to one or more of the three elements of control (power, exposure to variability in returns and a link between the two). ABN AMRO sponsors entities, including certain special purpose entities, which may or may not be directly owned, for the purpose of asset securitisation transactions and other specific and well defined objectives. Particularly in the case of securitisations, these entities may acquire assets Annual Financial Statements from ABN AMRO companies. Some of these entities hold assets that are not available to meet the claims of creditors of ABN AMRO or its subsidiaries. These entities are consolidated in ABN AMRO’s financial statements when the substance of the relationship between ABN AMRO and the entity indicates that control is held by ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO is mainly involved in securitisations of own originated assets such as various consumer and commercial financial assets. This process generally necessitates a sale of these assets to a special purpose entity (SPE), which in turn issues securities to investors. ABN AMRO’s interests in securitised assets may be retained in the form of senior or subordinated tranches, issued guarantees, interest-only strips or other residual interests, together referred to as retained interest. Other In many cases, these retained interests convey control such that the SPE is consolidated and the securitised assets continue to be recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 318 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The financial statements of subsidiaries and special purpose entities are included in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements from the date on which control commences until Strategy the date on which control ceases. Accounting policy for associates and joint ventures Associates are those entities in which ABN AMRO has significant influence, but no control or joint control, over the operating and financial policies. Significant influence is generally presumed when ABN AMRO holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Potential voting rights that are Business currently exercisable are considered in assessing whether ABN AMRO has significant influence. Among other factors, representation on the board of directors, participation in the policy-making process and material transactions between the entity and the investee are considered to determine significant influence. A joint venture is an investment in which two or more parties have contractually agreed to share Risk, funding & capital the control over the investment. Joint control only exists when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The activities conducted through joint ventures include cash transfer, insurance, finance and leasing. Investments in associates and joint ventures, including strategic investments, are accounted for using the equity method. Under this method the investment is initially recorded at cost and subsequently increased (or decreased) for post-acquisition net income (or loss), other movements impacting the equity of the investee and any adjustments required for impairment. ABN AMRO’s share of the profit or loss of the investee is recognised in other income in the income statement. Leadership When ABN AMRO’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment, the carrying amount is reduced to zero, including any other unsecured receivables, and recognition of further losses is discontinued except if ABN AMRO has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee. Equity investments held without significant influence which are not held for trading or not Governance designated at fair value through profit or loss are classified as available-for-sale. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 319 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The following table provides an overview of the most significant investments in associates and joint ventures at 31 December. Strategy 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Equity Equity Principle place Carrying interest Carrying interest (in millions) of business Business line amount (in %) amount (in %) Joint ventures: Neuflize Vie S.A. France Private Banking 217 60% 215 60% Richmond Preferente Aandelen C. B.V. The Netherlands Corporate Banking 25 50% 25 50% Business Associates: Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. The Netherlands Retail Banking 197 49% 221 49% Equens S.E.1 The Netherlands Group Functions 60 18% Nederlandse Financieringsmaatschappij Risk, funding & capital voor Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. The Netherlands Group Functions 100 20% 60 20% European Merchant Services B.V. The Netherlands Corporate Banking 23 49% 20 49% Compagnie Maritime Monegasque OSV B.V. The Netherlands Corporate Banking 24 75% Private Equity Investments 122 116 Other 58 61 Total equity accounted investments 765 778 1 Reclassification to financial investments. Neuflize Vie is a joint venture whereby the power to govern the financial and operating policies Leadership of the economic activity is subject to joint control. The total amount of the investments in equity associates and joint ventures amounted to EUR 765 million at 31 December 2016, a decrease of EUR 13 million compared with EUR 778 million at 31 December 2015. This decrease was mainly the result of the change in the carrying value of Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. and reclassification of Equens SE. As a result of the merger of Equens SE and Worldline SA on 30 September 2016, ABN AMRO’s Governance interest in Equens SE has been diluted from 18.4% to 7.0% and is therefore reclassified from equity accounted investment to financial investment available for sale at fair value. Other investments in associates and joint ventures represent a large number of associates and Annual Financial Statements joint ventures with an individual carrying amount of less than EUR 15 million. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 320 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The combined financial information of the associates and joint ventures include the following assets and liabilities, income and expenses, and represent the proportionate share: Strategy 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions) Associates Joint ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total Assets Financial assets held for trading 2,487 2,487 2,528 2,528 Financial investments 443 7,250 7,693 342 6,771 7,113 Loans and receivables-banks and Business customers 1,713 196 1,910 1,473 235 1,708 Property and equipment 71 204 275 90 165 255 Other assets 334 71 405 420 326 745 Total assets 5,048 7,722 12,770 4,852 7,497 12,349 Liabilities Due to banks and customers 1,320 145 1,464 1,290 51 1,341 Risk, funding & capital Provisions 2,548 3,955 6,503 2,424 3,624 6,048 Other Liabilities 246 3,380 3,626 258 3,575 3,833 Total liabilities 4,115 7,479 11,594 3,973 7,250 11,223 Total operating income 522 46 569 562 51 613 Operating expenses 408 24 432 503 26 529 Operating profit/(loss) 114 23 137 60 25 85 Income tax expense 26 8 34 19 9 28 Profit/(loss) for the period 88 15 103 41 16 57 Leadership Assets related to associates are mainly held by Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. (EUR 2,839 million compared with EUR 2,737 million in 2015) and by Nederlandse Financieringsmaat­ schap­­pij voor Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. (EUR 1,652 million compared with EUR 1,418 million in 2015). Neuflize Vie holds the majority of assets under joint ventures (EUR 7,696 million compared with EUR 7,208 million in 2015). The profit for the period regarding the associates increased, mainly to due the better results of Governance the abovementioned associates. Impairments on equity accounted investments The following table shows the changes in impairments on equity accounted investments. Annual Financial Statements (in millions) 2016 2015 Balance as at 1 January 4 16 Increase in impairments 5 28 Reversal of impairments -1 Other -4 -41 Balance as at 31 December 4 4 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 321 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Impairments on equity accounted investments remained at EUR 4 million at 31 December 2016, equal to the amount at 31 December 2015. The increase and decrease in impaired assets were Strategy mainly related to the variance of the carrying value of the primary assets of some of ABN AMRO’s associates compared with its fair value. Structured entities Structured entities are entities that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when voting rights relate to administrative Business tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements. A structured entity has some or all of the following features or attributes: ÅÅ restricted activities; ÅÅ a narrow and well defined objective; ÅÅ insufficient equity to permit the structured entity to finance its activities without subordinated Risk, funding & capital financial support; ÅÅ financing in the form of multiple contractually linked instruments to investors that create concentrations of credit or other risks; ÅÅ relevant activities are directed by contractual arrangements. ABN AMRO Bank is mainly involved in one type of structured entities: securitisations of its own originated assets. ABN AMRO Bank uses securitisation transactions primarily to diversify its funding sources and to manage its liquidity profile. Financial assets included in these transactions are residential mortgages and loans to small and medium-sized enterprises (SME). All securitised assets Leadership were originated in the Netherlands by ABN AMRO Bank (or one of its predecessors). Consolidated structured entities The total amount of notes sold to external parties amounted to EUR 2.4 billion at 31 December 2016, a decrease of EUR 0.6 billion compared with EUR 3.0 billion at year-end 2015. The decrease was primarily due to the calling of several securitisation transactions including Beluga and Fishbowl Governance (mortgage loans). The securitisation transactions are primarily used for funding and liquidity purposes. There was no RWA (REA) relief at year-end 2016 (year-end 2015: no relief). The bank had only true sale (traditional) securitisation transactions outstanding in 2016. In a true sale Annual Financial Statements securitisation transaction a foundation (stichting) incorporates a structured entity, resulting in a bankruptcy remote structure. ABN AMRO sells a portfolio of receivables to the structured entity. The structured entity funds the purchase by issuing notes. In all securitisation transactions, ABN AMRO provides key ancillary roles such as swap counterparty. Risks associated with the roles in the securitisation process Credit risk Credit risk relates to the risk of credit losses on securitised assets. ABN AMRO retains part of the credit risk by retaining notes and other securitisation positions such as liquidity facilities, swaps and first loss tranches. Regulatory capital is held for all retained securitisation positions in accordance Other with the applicable regulation. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 322 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Liquidity risk Liquidity risk relates to the risk that ABN AMRO might incur additional cash outflows. Any potential Strategy future cash outflows relating to these positions, including collateral requirements, are taken into account within stress tests and are integrated into the liquidity ratios where required. This includes the potential impact of the liquidity facilities or swap agreements which are part of a number of securitisation transactions, most of which relate to transactions for which ABN AMRO is the originator of the underlying assets. Business Approaches to calculating risk exposure amount ABN AMRO does not achieve significant risk transfers for any of the mortgage securitisations. The look-through approach is therefore used and REA reduction is not applied. Monitoring process ABN AMRO periodically monitors changes in credit risk relating to securitisation exposures. Risk, funding & capital The significance of the amount of credit risk transferred to third parties by securitisation of own originated assets is assessed on a monthly basis in accordance with the regulatory significant risk transfer test. For investments in third-party securitisations, the risk is monitored by reviewing the investor reports of these transactions. Additionally, third-party securitisation positions are included in the firm-wide comprehensive stress tests in which downgrade and default risk under stressed market conditions is assessed. Overview of securitisation positions and securitised assets The total amount of assets securitised in true sale securitisations decreased to EUR 39.7 billion Leadership at 31 December 2016 (2015: EUR 52.2 billion). Securitisation transactions for the purpose of capital relief were not originated in 2016. Securitisation overview of own originated assets (overall pool size) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Governance True sale True sale securitisations Total securitisations Total Mortgage Mortgage (in millions) loans SME loans loans SME loans Total assets securitised reported under the CRD framework Total assets securitised not reported Annual Financial Statements under the CRD framework 39,687 39,687 52,177 52,177 Total assets securitised 39,687 39,687 52,177 52,177 Details on retained and purchased securitisation positions The tables in the following sections contain data of securitisation positions in which ABN AMRO acts as originator and/or investor. Amounts reported are based on the regulatory exposure values calculated in accordance with the regulatory guidelines. Note that this not only includes the notes issued under the securitisation, but also the credit equivalent of interest rate swaps and first loss positions. The following table outlines the total amount of ABN AMRO’s exposure value on securitisation positions in which ABN AMRO acts as originator and/or investor. The total securitisation position increased to EUR 1.3 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 1.1 billion). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 323 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Overview of retained, transferred and purchased securitisation positions 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Strategy True sale True sale securitisations Total securitisations Total Mortgage Mortgage (in millions, Exposure at Default) loans SME loans loans SME loans Securitisation position in purchased securitisations 1,265 1,265 1,125 1,125 Of the EUR 1.3 billion purchased securitisation positions as per 31 December 2016, the full position Business is risk-weighted at 7%. Of the EUR 1.1 billion purchased securitisation positions as per 31 December 2015, the full position is risk-weighted at 7%. Details on total notes outstanding per structured entity Risk, funding & capital The following table provides details on the outstanding notes issued by consolidated structured entities which were established by ABN AMRO for securitisation purposes, exceeding 0.1% of the bank’s total assets. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions) Total notes issued % of total assets Total notes issued % of total assets Category Dolphin Master Issuer B.V. 30,472 7.7% 30,472 7.5% Goldfish Master Issuer B.V. 9,656 2.4% 12,407 3.0% Leadership SMILE Securitisation Company 2007 B.V.1 15 0.0% 18 0.0% Fishbowl Master Issuer B.V. 7,139 1.8% Beluga Master Issuer B.V. 3,136 0.8% Total 40,143 53,172 1 Securitisation structured entity in the CRD securitisation framework. Governance Support to consolidated structured entities ABN AMRO did not provide support, financial or otherwise, to a consolidated structured entity including when ABN AMRO was not contractually obligated to do so, nor does ABN AMRO intend to do so in the future. Unconsolidated structured entities Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO invested EUR 0.7 billion in securitisations which were not set up by ABN AMRO in 2016 (2015: EUR 0.8 billion). These securitisation notes are part of the liquidity buffer. ABN AMRO does not consolidate the structured entities as the bank does not have control over these entities. As ABN AMRO has not engaged in any additional contractual obligations with these entities, the maximum exposure to these structured entities is the same as the invested amount. To raise funding, ABN AMRO has interests in two structured entities: Simba Finance B.V. (Simba) and Pumbaa Finance B.V. (Pumbaa). Simba and Pumbaa are unconsolidated structured entities as ABN AMRO does not have the power over these entities and does not have the ability to affect the amount of their returns. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 324 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Sponsoring of unconsolidated structured entities. An entity is considered a sponsor of an unconsolidated structured entity if it had a key role in Strategy establishing that entity so that the transaction, which is the purpose of the entity, could occur. No material sponsoring occurred in 2016. 23 Property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets Accounting policy for property and equipment In accordance with IAS 16, property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation Business and any amount for impairment. At each balance sheet date an assessment is performed to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. Subsequent costs are capitalised if these result in an enhancement to the asset. Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property and equipment, and of major Risk, funding & capital components that are accounted for separately. ABN AMRO generally uses the following useful lives in calculating depreciation: ÅÅ Land: not depreciated; ÅÅ Buildings: 30 years; ÅÅ Leasehold improvements: 5 years; ÅÅ Equipment: 5 years; ÅÅ Computer installations: 2 to 5 years. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement as a component of depreciation and Leadership amortisation expense. Impairment losses are reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had previously been recognised. Depreciation rates and residual values are reviewed at least periodically to take into account any change in circumstances. Capitalised leasehold improvements are depreciated in a manner that Governance takes into account the term and renewal conditions of the related lease. Assets for which the bank acts as a lessor in an operational lease contract are included in property and equipment. The asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful life to its estimated residual value. Annual Financial Statements Accounting policy for intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is determined in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 36 Impairments of Assets. Goodwill is capitalised and stated at cost, being the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of ABN AMRO’s share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets at the date of acquisition, less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of calculating goodwill, the fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to market values or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value. Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that impairment may have occurred. In the test the carrying amount of goodwill is compared with the Other highest of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use, being the present value of the cash ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 325 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction flows discounted at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risk of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement Strategy as depreciation and amortisation expense and are irreversible. Software and other intangible assets The accounting policy for software and other intangible assets is determined by IAS 38 Intangible assets. Software is amortised over a period of three years unless the software is classified as core application software, which is depreciated over its estimated useful lifetime set at a maximum of Business seven years. Only the development phase is capitalised for own developed software. Other intangible assets include separately identifiable items arising from acquisition of subsidiaries, such as customer relationships, and certain purchased trademarks and similar items. In general, the estimated useful life does not exceed ten years. Amortisation rates and residual values are reviewed at least annually to take into account any change in circumstances. Risk, funding & capital The following table shows the carrying amount for each category of property and equipment at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Land and buildings held for own use 706 781 Leasehold improvements 47 43 Equipment 664 539 Other 1 3 Leadership Total property and equipment 1,418 1,366 Total property and equipment increased by EUR 52 million to EUR 1,418 million at 31 December 2016. The decrease in land and buildings relates to sales in the Netherlands and depreciation of buildings. The increase in equipment is due to leasing. The following table shows the carrying amount for goodwill and other intangible assets at 31 December. Governance (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Goodwill 144 149 Purchased software 56 54 Annual Financial Statements Internally developed software 11 6 Other 40 54 Total goodwill and other intangible assets 251 263 No material movements in goodwill and other intangible assets occured during 2016. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 326 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The book value of property, equipment, intangible assets and goodwill changed as follows for the years 2016 and 2015. 2016 Strategy Total Land and Other Total goodwill Buildings Leasehold property property Other and other held for improveand and intangible intangible (in millions) own use ments Equipment equipment equipment Goodwill assets assets Acquisition costs as at 1 January 1,683 218 1,464 3 3,368 202 1,202 1,403 Acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries 2 2 Business Additions 52 12 340 405 37 37 Reversal of cost due to disposals -137 -7 -225 -369 -299 -299 Foreign exchange differences -2 -13 -14 -11 -1 -12 Other 6 10 12 -2 26 -2 1 -1 Acquisition costs as at Risk, funding & capital 31 December 1,602 235 1,579 1 3,416 190 939 1,129 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 1 January -891 -176 -924 -1,991 -1,066 -1,066 Depreciation/amortisation -44 -18 -173 -236 -46 -46 Reversal of depreciation/amortisation due to disposals 89 7 173 268 300 300 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 1 Other -41 11 -30 1 1 Accumulated depreciation/ Leadership amortisation as at 31 December -888 -188 -913 -1,989 -810 -810 Impairments as at 1 January -10 -1 -11 -53 -22 -75 Increase of impairments charged to the income statement -13 -2 -14 Reversal of impairments due to disposals 13 13 Foreign exchange differences 7 7 Governance Other 1 2 3 Impairments as at 31 December -8 -1 -9 -46 -22 -68 Total as at 31 December 706 47 664 1 1,418 144 107 251 Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 327 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2015 Total Land and Other Total goodwill Strategy Buildings Leasehold property property Other and other held for improveand and intangible intangible (in millions) own use ments Equipment equipment equipment Goodwill assets assets Acquisition costs as at 1 January 1,742 203 1,451 36 3,432 198 1,162 1,360 Additions 56 17 210 282 41 42 Reversal of cost due to disposals -86 -3 -198 -38 -324 -3 -3 Foreign exchange differences 3 2 7 3 14 4 2 7 Business Other -32 -6 2 -36 -1 -2 Acquisition costs as at 31 December 1,683 218 1,464 3 3,368 202 1,202 1,403 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 1 January -911 -165 -927 -4 -2,007 -1,034 -1,034 Depreciation/amortisation -51 -12 -154 -217 -34 -34 Risk, funding & capital Reversal of depreciation/amortisation due to disposals 41 3 161 5 209 4 4 Foreign exchange differences -1 -1 -4 -6 -2 -2 Other 30 29 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 31 December -891 -176 -924 -1,991 -1,066 -1,066 Impairments as at 1 January -11 -2 -13 -51 -21 -71 Increase of impairments charged to the income statement -4 -4 -1 -1 Leadership Reversal of impairments due to disposals 6 1 7 Foreign exchange differences -3 -3 Other -1 -1 1 1 Impairments as at 31 December -10 -1 -11 -53 -22 -75 Total as at 31 December 781 43 539 3 1,366 149 114 263 Governance The fair value of land and buildings held for own use is estimated at EUR 621 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: EUR 694 million). Of this fair value 97% is based on external valuations performed in 2016 or 2015 and 3% is based on Dutch local government property tax valuations with a discount of 0% to reflect the current market situation. There are some properties that have a lower fair value than the recorded carrying value. No impairment is recorded because these properties are considered corporate assets. The value in use for the cash-generating units within ABN AMRO Annual Financial Statements Group is sufficient to cover the total value of all these assets. Lessor In its capacity as lessor, ABN AMRO leases out various assets, included in equipment, under operating leases. Future minimum lease receipts under non-cancellable operating lease are EUR 486 million (2015: EUR 380 million), of which EUR 336 million (2015: EUR 338 million) matures within five years. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 328 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Impairment of goodwill Impairment testing on goodwill is performed at least annually by comparing the recoverable amount Strategy of the cash-generating units (CGU) to their carrying amount. The CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that: ÅÅ generate cash inflows from continuing use; and ÅÅ are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Identification of an asset’s cash-generating unit involves judgement. If the recoverable amount Business cannot be determined for an individual asset, an entity identifies the lowest aggregation of assets that generate largely independent cash inflows. The recoverable amount is determined by the highest of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell. The type of the acquired entity determines the definition of the type of CGU. The value in use of a CGU is assessed through a discounted cash flow model of the anticipated Risk, funding & capital future cash flows of the CGU. The discounted cash flow model uses assumptions which depend on various financial and economic variables, including the risk-free rate in a given country and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the entity being evaluated. The values assigned to each key assumption reflect past experience that was modified based on management’s expectation for the future and are consistent with external sources of information. Besides the discount rates stated in the following table, calculation of the value in use was also based on cash flows, projected based on past experience, actual operating results and the 5-year budget plan. Cash flows for a further 5-year period were extrapolated using the long-term growth Leadership rate stated for the CGU. 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Method used for recoverable Discount Long term Impairment (in millions) Segment amount rate growth rate charges Goodwill Goodwill Governance Entity Private Value in Bethmann Bank Banking use 10.0% 1.0% 99 99 Private ABN AMRO (Guernsey) Banking Fair value 10.0% 1.0% 23 27 Corporate Value in ABN AMRO Commercial Finance Holding Banking use 10.0% 2.0% 10 11 Annual Financial Statements Private Value in Banque Neuflize Banking use 10.0% 0.0% 6 6 Corporate Value in Banco ABN AMRO S.A. Banking use 10.0% 2.0% 4 3 Other 2 2 Total goodwill and impairment charges 144 149 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 329 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction (in millions) 2016 2015 Depreciation on tangible assets Land and buildings held for own use 44 51 Leasehold improvements 18 12 Strategy Equipment 75 74 Amortisation on intangible assets Purchased software 28 23 Internally developed software 3 3 Business Other intangible assets 16 8 Impairment losses on tangible assets Land and buildings held for own use (incl. held for sale) 13 4 Other 2 Impairment losses on intangible assets Risk, funding & capital Goodwill Purchased software 1 Total depreciation and amortisation 198 177 Impairment losses on land and buildings held for own use include an impairment amount of EUR 6 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: EUR 4 million) for assets held for sale. 24 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale Leadership Accounting policy for non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale In accordance with IFRS 5, non-current assets and/or businesses are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction planned to occur within 12 months, rather than through continuing use. Held-for-sale assets are not depreciated and are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Assets and Governance liabilities of a business held for sale are presented separately. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Assets Financial assets held for trading 28 Consumer Loans 1,634 Annual Financial Statements Corporate Loans 1,785 Property and equipment 32 32 Other assets 2 Assets of businesses held for sale 3,481 32 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 7 Demand Deposits 3,283 Saving Deposits 233 Time Deposits 2,143 Liabilities of businesses held for sale 5,667 Other At 31 December 2016, total assets of businesses held for sale amounted to EUR 3,481 million (2015: EUR 32 million) the liabilities of businesses held for sale amounted to EUR 5,667 million. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 330 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction In line with the strategic update announced on 16 November 2016, ABN AMRO decided to sell its private banking operations in Asia and the Middle East. A total amount of EUR 3,449 million in assets Strategy and EUR 5,667 million in liabilities relate to this transfer. 25 Other assets The following table shows the components of other assets at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Accrued other income 514 490 Business Prepaid expenses 27 24 Unit-linked investments 3,275 2,543 Reinsurers share, trade and other receivables 1,758 1,385 Other 476 452 Total other assets 6,050 4,893 Risk, funding & capital In the 2015 Annual Financial Statements, assets held for sale were included in other assets. For 2016 a separate note, Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (note 24), is provided. Unit-linked investments are investments on behalf of insurance contract policyholders who bear the investment risk. Minimum guaranteed rates are agreed for certain contracts. Reinsurers share, trade and other receivables include the amount of the receivables purchased by ABN AMRO (the factor) from its clients under contract of non-recourse factoring. Leadership Other assets in 2016 and 2015 include a net receivable of EUR 204 million mainly related to the bankruptcy of DSB Bank. 26 Due to banks Accounting policy for due to banks and due to customers Governance According to IAS 39 Financial Instruments, amounts due to banks and customers are held at amortised cost. That is, fair value at initial recognition adjusted for repayment and amortisation of coupon, fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the instrument. Annual Financial Statements This item is comprised of amounts due to banking institutions, including central banks and multilateral development banks. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Deposits from banks: Demand deposits 2,591 2,728 Time deposits 1,475 1,332 Other deposits 9,329 10,544 Total deposits 13,394 14,604 Other Due to banks 25 26 Other Total due to banks 13,419 14,630 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 331 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Due to banks decreased in total by EUR 1.2 billion to EUR 13.4 billion at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: EUR 14.6 billion). This decrease was mainly due to a decline in other deposits Strategy of EUR 1.2 billion. Other deposits decreased mainly as a result of a decrease in deposits from several central banks by EUR 0.5 billion and credit institutions by EUR 0.7 billion. ABN AMRO repaid EUR 4.0 billion TLTRO I in June 2016 and participated in TLTRO II in December 2016 for the same amount. The maturity of TLTRO II is four years and interest payments will be settled in arrears. The interest rate, which is fixed for the entire maturity of TLTRO II, will be set in June 2018. 27 Due to customers Business The accounting policy for due to customers is included in note 26. Risk, funding & capital (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Demand deposits 119,848 134,632 Saving deposits 92,740 94,005 Time deposits 16,169 18,555 Total deposits 228,758 247,192 Other due to customers 160 Total due to customers 228,758 247,353 Due to customers decreased by EUR 18.6 billion to EUR 228.8 billion at 31 December 2016, mainly Leadership as a result of the decline in demand deposits (EUR 14.8 billion), saving deposits (EUR 1.3 billion) and time deposits (EUR 2.4 billion), reflecting lower client demand for these types of investments. Demand deposits decreased by EUR 14.8 billion to EUR 119.8 billion at 31 December 2016 mainly due to lower outstanding positions held by large corporates (EUR 14.8 billion) and a decrease in Private Banking (EUR 1.9 billion) due to the planned sale of activities in Asia and the Middle East. Governance More information is provided in note 24 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale. This is partly offset by higher positions held by retail clients (EUR 1.9 billion). In Q2 2016 ABN AMRO adjusted the implementation of its offsetting treatment of notional cash pooling agreements. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies: Offsetting. Saving deposits decreased by EUR 1.3 billion to EUR 92.7 billion mainly due to a decrease in Annual Financial Statements Private Banking. In Q4 2016 ABN AMRO adjusted its treatment of bank savings mortgages. More information is provided in note 1 Accounting policies: Offsetting. Time deposits decreased by EUR 2.4 billion to EUR 16.2 billion, due to the planned sale of activities in Asia and the Middle East. More information is provided in note 24 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 332 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 28 Issued debt and subordinated liabilities Accounting policy for issued debt and subordinated liabilities Issued debt securities and subordinated liabilities are recorded at amortised cost using the Strategy effective interest rate method, unless they are of a hybrid or structured nature and irrevocably designated at initial recognition to be held at fair value through profit or loss. The latter is applied when the instruments are held to reduce an accounting mismatch, are managed on the basis of its fair value or include terms that have substantive derivative characteristics in nature. ABN AMRO applies IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation to determine whether funding is Business either a financial liability or equity. Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as financial liabilities where the substance of the contractual arrangement results in ABN AMRO having a present obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset or to satisfy the obligation other than by the exchange of a fixed number of equity shares. Preference shares that carry a non‑discretionary Risk, funding & capital coupon or are redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the holder are classified as liabilities. Dividends and fees on preference shares classified as a liability are recognised as interest expense. Issued liabilities qualify as subordinated debt if claims by the holders are subordinated to all other current and future liabilities of ABN AMRO and its subsidiaries. The measurement of liabilities held at fair value includes the effect of changes in own credit spreads. The change in fair value applies to those financial liabilities designated at fair value where own credit risk would be considered by market participants. Exchange-traded own debt at fair value Leadership through profit or loss is valued against market prices. Fair value changes are calculated based on a yield curve generated from observed external pricing for funding and quoted CDS spreads. The following table shows the types of debt certificates issued by ABN AMRO and the amounts Governance outstanding at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Bonds and notes issued 62,882 64,613 Certificates of deposit and commercial paper 16,705 9,820 Saving certificates 52 59 Annual Financial Statements Total at amortised cost 79,639 74,492 Designated at fair value through profit or loss 1,639 1,715 Total issued debt 81,278 76,207 of which matures within one year 27,754 19,607 Total issued debt increased by EUR 5.1 billion to EUR 81.3 billion at 31 December 2016. This increase was mainly caused by the issuance of EUR 6.9 billion in certificates of deposits and commercial paper. Movements in these debt instruments are a continuous process of redemption and issuance of long-term and short-term funding. Other The amounts of issued debt issued and redeemed during the period are shown in the Consolidated statement of cash flows. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 333 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Further details of the funding programmes are provided in the Risk, funding & capital section. Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Strategy (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Cumulative change in fair value of the structured notes attributable to changes in credit risk 13 7 Change during the year in fair value of the structured notes attributable to changes in credit risk 6 -6 Business The cumulative change of the fair value of the structured notes attributable to change in credit risk amounted to a loss of EUR 13 million (2015: EUR 7 million). For all financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, the amount that ABN AMRO would contractually be required to pay at maturity was EUR 1.5 billion (2015: EUR 1.7 billion). Risk, funding & capital The following table specifies the issued and outstanding subordinated liabilities at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Perpetual loans 1,255 Other subordinated liabilities 11,171 8,453 Total subordinated liabilities 11,171 9,708 Subordinated liabilities increased by EUR 1.5 billion to EUR 11.2 billion at 31 December 2016. This increase was driven mainly by a newly issued EUR 1.0 billion 2.875% subordinated loan, Leadership the settlement date of which is January 2023. In addition, several new subordinated loans in SGD and USD were issued. Perpetual loans were redeemed for a total of EUR 1.3 billion in 2016, these are therefore no longer included in Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. The issued and outstanding loans qualifying as subordinated liabilities are subordinated to all other current and future liabilities. Governance 29 Provisions Accounting policy for provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when ABN AMRO has a legal or constructive Annual Financial Statements obligation as a result of a past event, and it is more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. If the effect of time value is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market rates and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. A provision for restructuring is recognised when an obligation exists. An obligation exists when ABN AMRO has approved a detailed plan and has raised a valid expectation in those affected by the plan by starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features. Future operating costs are not provided for. Provisions for insurance risks are determined by actuarial methods, Other which include the use of statistics, interest rate data and settlement costs expectations. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 334 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Provisions are established for certain guarantee contracts for which ABN AMRO is responsible to pay upon default of payment. The following table shows the breakdown of provisions at 31 December. Strategy (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Insurance fund liabilities 127 154 Provision for pension commitments 86 85 Restructuring provision 417 200 Business Other staff provision 117 144 Legal provisions 731 292 Other provisions 193 381 Total provisions 1,672 1,256 Insurance fund liabilities Risk, funding & capital Insurance fund liabilities include the insurance companies’ actuarial reserves, premium and claims reserves. The expected cash outflow for 2017 is approximately EUR 64 million and approximately EUR 10 million for the 2018-2021 period. Provision for pension commitments Provision for pension commitments includes early retirement benefits payable to non-active employees. In 2014 the pension scheme was changed from a defined benefit plan to a defined contribution plan. Further details are provided in note 30. Leadership Restructuring Restructuring provisions cover the costs of restructuring plans for which implementation has been formally announced. Restructuring provisions are related to the integration and to further streamlining of the organisation and infrastructure. Restructuring provisions include allowances for staff and other operating expenses. The pre-2014 restructuring programme is almost completed. The remaining balance relates to ongoing costs that are still payable based on the ABN AMRO Social Plan. In 2014 Governance ABN AMRO announced a new restructuring plan for Retail Banking which is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2019. The financial settlement may take up to five years after completion. The increase in the restructuring provision was mainly due to the announced reorganisation of the control and support activities recorded in Q3 2016 and further digitalisation and process optimisation in Q4 2016. Annual Financial Statements Other staff provisions Other staff provisions relate mainly to disability and other post-employee benefits. Legal provisions Legal provisions are based on best estimates available at year-end and take into account the opinion of legal specialists. The timing of the outflow of cash related to these provisions is by nature uncertain given the unpredictability of the outcome and the time involved in concluding litigations. Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 335 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Interest rate derivatives to SME clients In 2015 ABN AMRO started a review, at the request of both the Netherlands Authority for the Strategy Financial Markets (AFM) and the Dutch Ministry of Finance, to determine whether the bank had acted in accordance with its duty of care obligations with respect to the sale of interest rate derivatives to SME clients. In the second quarter of 2015 ABN AMRO first recognised a provision for the compensation of clients who had suffered damage. In December 2015 the AFM announced that it found the review performed by banks to be Business insufficient. In light of this finding, the Dutch Minister of Finance appointed a committee of independent experts (the Committee) to develop a uniform recovery framework in consultation with the participating banks. On 5 July 2016 the Committee presented the Uniform Recovery Framework. On that same date ABN AMRO announced it would adhere to it. As a result, ABN AMRO increased its provision. Risk, funding & capital In the months since 5 July 2016, the Committee, the AFM, the banks and the external file reviewers have worked together to monitor how the Uniform Recovery Framework works in practice. The Committee has now added the findings to the Uniform Recovery Framework, which was finalised on 19 December 2016. ABN AMRO has set up its own client reassessment process and the related checks and balances. In the first quarter of 2017 ABN AMRO will begin reassessments of around 6,800 clients with some 9,000 interest rate derivatives. ABN AMRO aims to propose a solution under the Uniform Recovery Framework for each of these clients before the end of 2017. At various points in the process, the Leadership reassessments will be checked by an independent external file reviewer, in ABN AMRO’s case audit firm PwC and supervised by the AFM. The total provision for SME derivatives-related issues taken in 2015 and 2016 amounts to EUR 530 million. Euribor-based mortgages ABN AMRO has sold mortgage loans with floating, often Euribor-based, interest rates (close to 1% Governance of the total mortgage portfolio) to consumers. An important element of the pricing model of these mortgage loans is the ability for ABN AMRO to charge costs, allocated and unallocated, on to its clients by adjusting the margin charge on top of the prevailing floating interest rate. In many of these products, ABN AMRO has structured its ability to do so in provisions in its terms and conditions that allow it to unilaterally adjust pricing or contract terms. ABN AMRO’s external funding costs (spread on top of Euribor) have gone up and ABN AMRO has adjusted the margin charge upward in many Annual Financial Statements cases. As a result, clients are contesting the ability of ABN AMRO to do so. The complaints are based on a number of specific and general legal principles. In 2012, on top of multiple individual cases, class actions were brought by Stichting Stop de Banken and Stichting Euribor in relation to mortgage agreements with a floating interest rate based on Euribor, alleging that ABN AMRO was contractually not allowed to unilaterally increase the level of the applicable margin and violated its duty of care. ABN AMRO lost the class action cases in the lower court in November 2015. In its judgement, the Amsterdam court took a rather principled view of unconditional (pricing) amendment provisions. ABN AMRO has filed for an appeal against this judgement. The Appeal Court judgement is expected in 2017. For this matter ABN AMRO has recognised a provision. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 336 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ICS Redress scheme International Card Services B.V. (ICS), the credit card business of ABN AMRO, has identified certain Strategy issues from its past in respect of the granting of credit to consumers, as a result of which certain customers have been provided with loans above their lending capacity. This has been reported to the AFM. ICS has drafted a redress scheme that addresses remedial measures for customers that have been affected, which will inter alia include financial compensation for certain customers. ICS expects to roll out the redress scheme in Q2 2017 and expects to finalise the process by the end of 2018. ABN AMRO has recognised a provision in respect of this redress scheme. Other duty of care matters Business Stichting Belangenbehartiging Gedupeerde Beleggers van den Berg represents victims of a large Ponzi scheme fraud set up by Mr René van den Berg through his Fortis Bank Nederland accounts. Fortis Bank Nederland is one of the predecessors of ABN AMRO. The victims of this fraud are claiming damages from ABN AMRO by reason of breaching a public duty of care. ABN AMRO has Risk, funding & capital recognised a provision for partial compensation of the victims. Other provisions Other provisions include provisions for tax purposes. The tax provisions are based on best estimates available at year-end and taking into account the opinion of tax specialists. The timing of the outflow of cash related to these provisions is by nature uncertain given the unpredictability of the outcome and the time involved. Discussions with tax authorities in Switzerland and Germany Leadership The tax treatment of certain transactions relating to discontinued securities financing activities are currently the subject of discussions with the Swiss and German tax authorities. In Switzerland, the discussion regards the beneficial ownership of shares held by subsidiaries of former Fortis Bank Nederland (FBN). Those subsidiaries reclaimed dividend withholding tax, while according to the Swiss tax authorities they were not entitled to reclaim this tax. In 2016 ABN AMRO repaid some outstanding amounts, while retaining its legal position. The German tax authorities have issued tax assessments against a former German subsidiary of Governance FBN and against a German branch to reclaim dividend withholding tax amounts previously reclaimed by that German company and that branch. The German tax authorities dispute these reclaims. ABN AMRO has also received liability notices related to these reclaims. Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO has recognised provisions which are currently considered sufficient to cover potential claims made by the Swiss and German tax authorities. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 337 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Changes in provisions during the year are as follows: Provision Strategy Insurance for pension Restruc­ fund committuring Other staff Legal (in millions) liabilities ments provision provision provisions Other Total At 1 January 2015 183 91 233 182 112 202 1,003 Increase of provisions 3 75 1 178 163 420 Reversal of unused provisions -1 -22 -1 -3 -20 -48 Business Utilised during the year -86 -8 -50 -144 Accretion of interest 1 16 34 50 Foreign exchange differences 4 5 Other -32 -7 -38 -1 48 -30 At 31 December 2015 154 85 200 144 292 381 1,256 Increase of provisions 3 369 1 513 83 969 Risk, funding & capital Reversal of unused provisions -4 -20 -2 -30 -44 -100 Utilised during the year -132 -70 -201 -402 Accretion of interest 26 5 31 Foreign exchange differences -1 -1 Other -26 1 -25 1 -31 -81 At 31 December 2016 127 86 417 117 731 193 1,672 Total provisions increased by EUR 416 million to EUR 1,672 million at 31 December 2016 compared with EUR 1,256 million at 31 December 2015. This was mainly due to increases in legal provisions and restructuring provisions. The increase in legal provisions was mainly due to interest rate Leadership derivatives to SME clients, Euribor-based mortgages and the ICS Redress scheme. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 338 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 30 Pension and other post-retirement benefits Accounting policy for pension and other post-retirement benefits ABN AMRO sponsors a number of pension schemes in the Netherlands and abroad and IAS 19 Strategy applies to the accounting of these schemes. These schemes are mainly defined contribution plans. The majority of the beneficiaries of the plans are located in the Netherlands. Defined contribution plans Business For defined contribution plans, ABN AMRO pays yearly contributions determined by a fixed method and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay any further contributions. Contributions are recognised directly in the income statement in the year to which they relate. Actuarial and investment risk are for the account of the participants in the plan. Defined benefit plans Risk, funding & capital For defined benefit schemes, the net obligation of each plan is determined as the difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets. The actuarial assumptions used in calculating the present value of the defined benefit obligation include discount rates based on high-quality corporate bonds, inflation rate, future salary increases, employee contributions, mortality assumptions and rates of employee turnover. The assumptions are based on available market data and management expectations at the end of the reporting period. Plan assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date and are netted against the defined Leadership benefit obligation. Pension costs recognised in the income statement for defined benefit plans consist of: ÅÅ service costs; ÅÅ net interest costs determined by multiplying the net defined benefit liability (asset) by the discount rate, both as determined at the start of the annual reporting period, taking into account Governance any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments; and ÅÅ curtailments or plan amendments. Differences between the pension costs and the contributions payable are accounted for as provisions or prepayments. Annual Financial Statements Remeasurement Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) are actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. unexpectedly high or low rates of employee turnover) and are recognised in other comprehensive income and will not be recycled to profit or loss in later periods. In determining the actual return on plan assets, the costs of managing the plan assets and any tax payable by the plan itself are deducted. Other post-retirement benefits Some group companies provide post-retirement benefits to their retirees such as long-term service Other benefits, and discounts on banking products. Entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 339 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit pension plans. These obligations are Strategy calculated annually. Plans in all countries comply with applicable local regulations concerning investments and minimum funding levels. Amounts recognised in the income statement for pensions and other post-retirement benefits Business (in millions) 2016 2015 Current service cost 5 6 Interest cost 3 4 Interest income -1 -2 Past service cost -5 Losses/(gains) on settlements and curtailment -1 -1 Risk, funding & capital Other 1 1 Pension expenses relating to defined benefit plans 6 3 Defined contribution plans 343 322 Total Pension expenses 349 324 The increase in the total pension expenses of EUR 25 million in 2016 was mainly due to a decrease in the interest rate related to the defined contribution plans. The pension expenses for defined contribution plans consist mainly of the cash contributions to the Dutch Collective Defined Contribution plan. Leadership Dutch defined contribution plan The Dutch defined contribution plan is based on an average salary plan. The normal retirement age is set at 67 years. The contribution payable by pension fund participants is 5.5% (5.5% in 2015). Reconciliation to the statement of financial position and other comprehensive income Governance (in millions) 2016 2015 Present value of defined benefit obligations-funded 132 134 Fair value of plan assets 87 94 45 40 Present value of unfunded obligations 40 45 Net recognised liabilities/(assets) at 31 December 86 85 Annual Financial Statements Remeasurements arising from changes in demographic assumptions DBO 1 3 Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions DBO -6 -1 Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions Plan assets 2 1 Remeasurements in Other comprehensive income -3 3 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 340 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Change in defined benefit obligation (in millions) 2016 2015 Defined benefit obligation as at 1 January 179 187 Strategy Current service cost 5 6 Interest cost 3 4 Past service cost -5 Losses/(gains) on settlements and curtailment -11 -4 Participants' contributions -3 -3 Business Benefits paid -2 -3 Remeasurements arising from changes in demographic assumptions defined benefit obligation -1 -3 Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions defined benefit obligation 6 1 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 4 Foreign exchange differences -2 1 Other -5 -1 Defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 173 Risk, funding & capital 179 The net defined benefit liabilities/(asset) balance as per 31 December 2016 consist of pensioners with a profit share, the indexation of benefits insured at an insurance company and several small defined benefit plans outside the Netherlands. Change in fair value of plan assets (in millions) 2016 2015 Leadership Fair value of plan assets as at 1 January 94 91 Interest Income 1 2 Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions plan assets 2 1 Employer's contributions 3 6 Benefits paid -2 -3 Asset distributed on settlements -9 -3 Foreign exchange differences Governance -2 1 Other -1 Fair value of plan assets as at 31 December 87 94 Principal actuarial assumptions 2016 2015 Annual Financial Statements Discount rate 1.8% 2.2% Indexation rate 1.7% 1.8% Expected return on plan assets as at 31 December 1.8% 2.2% Future salary increases 2.5% 2.4% The assumptions above are weighted by defined benefit obligations. The discount rate consists of a risk-free rate and a credit spread on AA-rated corporate bonds. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 341 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 Other liabilities Strategy The following table shows the components of accrued expenses and other liabilities at 31 December 2016. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Accrued other expenses 1,287 1,204 Liability to unit-linked policyholders 3,275 2,543 Sundry liabilities and other payables Business 1,941 1,982 Total other liabilities 6,503 5,729 Obligations to policyholders whose return is dependent on the return of unit-linked investments recognised in the balance sheet are measured at fair value with changes through income. The increase is mainly the result of full consolidation of ABN AMRO Pensioeninstelling N.V. Risk, funding & capital in 2016 (see note 22 Group structure). 32 Equity attributable to shareholders and other components of equity Share capital and other components of equity Ordinary shares and depositary receipts for ordinary shares As at 31 December 2016, all shares in the capital of ABN AMRO Group are held by two foundations: NLFI and STAK AAG. On that date, NLFI held 70% and STAK AAG held 30% of the shares in the Leadership issued capital of ABN AMRO Group. Both foundations have issued depositary receipts in ABN AMRO Group. Only STAK AAG’s depositary receipts are issued with the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group and traded on Euronext Amsterdam. For more information about the STAK AAG and the depositary receipts, please refer to the Governance section of this report. More details on the shares are provided in the ABN AMRO Shares section. Governance Preference shares Preference shares which are non-redeemable and upon which dividends are declared at the discretion of the company are classified as equity. Compound financial instruments Components of compound financial instruments (liability and equity parts) are classified in their Annual Financial Statements respective areas of the statement of financial position. Other reserves The other reserves mainly comprise retained earnings, profit for the period and legal reserves. Currency translation reserve The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, net of the effect of hedging. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 342 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Available-for-sale reserve In this component, gains and losses arising from a change in the fair value of available‑for‑sale assets Strategy are recognised, net of taxes, excluding impairment losses recognised in the income statement and gains and losses on hedged financial instruments. When the relevant assets are sold or otherwise disposed of, the related cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recycled to the income statement. Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve is comprised of the effective portion of the cumulative net change Business in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments, net of taxes, that will be recycled to the income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss. Net investment hedging reserve The net investment hedging reserve is comprised of the currency translation differences arising on translation of the currency of these instruments to euros, for the extent they are effective. Risk, funding & capital Dividends Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares classified as equity are recognised as a distribution of equity in the period in which they are approved by shareholders. Capital Securities Undated deeply subordinated resettable callable capital securities are classified as additional tier 1 (AT1) capital, under total equity. ABN AMRO Bank has the permission of the European Central Bank to carry out limited repurchases from investors and to sell back in the market. Leadership The following table shows the composition of equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Share capital 940 940 Governance Share premium 12,970 12,970 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 4,037 3,059 Other components of equity -9 -394 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company 17,939 16,575 Capital securities 993 993 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 5 17 Total equity 18,937 17,584 Annual Financial Statements At 31 December 2016, the authorised share capital of ABN AMRO Group N.V. amounted to EUR 4.7 billion distributed over 4,500,000,000 ordinary shares and 200,000,000 class B ordinary shares. All shares have a nominal value of EUR 1.00 each and each share entitles the shareholder to one vote per share. At 31 December 2016, issued and paid-up capital by ABN AMRO Group N.V. consisted of 940,000,001 ordinary shares (EUR 940 million). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 343 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction In September 2015 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. issued EUR 1.0 billion in capital securities including a premium discount of EUR 7 million. Capital securities qualify as Additional Tier 1 as described in Strategy CRD IV and CRR. The capital securities are perpetual, unsecured and deeply subordinated. Redemption is discretionary to ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on the interest reset date in year 5 subject to regulatory approval. The securities can be called on a yearly basis after year 5. There is a fixed interest coupon of 5.75%, payable semi-annually. Interest is non-cumulative and fully at the discretion of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. No interest will be paid if there are insufficient distributable items and/or maximum distributable amount (MDA) restrictions are constraining. ABN AMRO Bank N.V. will give due Business consideration to the hierarchy of the instrument with regard to distribution. In 2016, a final dividend relating to 2015 of EUR 414 million was paid out to ordinary shareholders, bringing the total dividend for 2015 to EUR 764 million. An interim dividend of EUR 376 million was paid to ordinary shareholders in August 2016 (2015: EUR 350 million). Risk, funding & capital The following table shows the number and paid-up and unpaid-up capital of the authorised, unissued and issued share capital at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Class A Class B Class A Class B ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Number of shares Authorised share capital 4,500,000,000 200,000,000 4,500,000,000 200,000,000 Unissued share capital 3,559,999,999 200,000,000 3,559,999,999 200,000,000 Leadership Issued share capital 940,000,001 940,000,001 Amount of shares Authorised share capital 4,500,000,000 200,000,000 4,500,000,000 200,000,000 Unissued share capital 3,559,999,999 200,000,000 3,559,999,999 200,000,000 Issued share capital 940,000,001 940,000,001 Par value 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 Governance 33 Transferred, pledged, encumbered and restricted assets Accounting policy for transferred, pledged, encumbered and restricted assets Transferred financial assets are arrangements/transactions for which ABN AMRO has: ÅÅ transferred the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset to a third party, or; ÅÅ retained the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of that financial asset, but assumes a Annual Financial Statements contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to a third party; or ÅÅ alternatively, transferred a financial asset when the counterparty has the right to re-pledge or to re-sell the asset. Depending on the circumstances, these transfers may either result in financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety or in assets that are derecognised in their entirety. More detailed information on our recognition and derecognition policy is provided in the paragraph significant accounting policies under note 1, Accounting policies. Pledged assets are assets pledged as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities and the Other terms and conditions relating to its pledge. Encumbered assets are those that are pledged or other assets which we believed to be restricted to secure, credit-enhance or collateralise a transaction. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 344 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction In principle, pledged assets are encumbered assets. The following differences apply to ABN AMRO: ÅÅ Encumbered assets include mandatory reserve requirements with central banks and unit-linked Strategy investments (see note 25 other assets); ÅÅ Encumbered assets exclude assets pledged for unused credit facilities with central banks at the statement of financial position date, i.e. mainly retained mortgage-backed securities. Significant restrictions on assets may arise from statutory, contractual or regulatory requirements such as: ÅÅ those that restrict the ability of the parent or its subsidiaries to transfer cash or other financial Business assets to (or from) other entities within the Group; ÅÅ guarantees or other requirements that may restrict dividends and other capital distributions being paid, or loans and advances being made or repaid to other entities within the Group; ÅÅ protective rights of noncontrolling interests might restrict the ability of the Group to access and transfer assets freely to or from other entities within the Group and to settle liabilities of the Group. Risk, funding & capital Transferred financial assets This disclosure provides insight into the relationship between these transferred financial assets and associated financial liabilities in order to understand which risks the bank is exposed to when the assets are transferred. If transferred financial assets continue to be recognised on the balance sheet, ABN AMRO Group is still exposed to changes in the fair value of the assets. Transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety Leadership The following table shows transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Financial Financial assets held for assets held for Loans and trading (at fair Loans and trading (at fair receivables (at value through receivables (at value through amortised cost) profit and loss) Total Governance (in millions) amortised cost) profit and loss) Total Securitisations Carrying amount Transferred assets 2,342 2,342 2,915 2,915 Carrying amount Associated liabilities 2,350 2,350 2,950 2,950 Fair value of assets 2,533 2,533 3,155 3,155 Fair value of associated liabilities 2,365 2,365 2,969 2,969 Net position 168 168 186 186 Annual Financial Statements Other Carrying amount Transferred assets 60 60 221 221 Carrying amount Associated liabilities 72 72 133 133 Fair value of assets 60 60 221 221 Fair value of associated liabilities 72 72 133 133 Net position -11 -11 88 88 Totals Carrying amount Transferred assets 2,342 60 2,402 2,915 221 3,136 Carrying amount Associated liabilities 2,350 72 2,422 2,950 133 3,083 Fair value of assets 2,533 60 2,594 3,155 221 3,376 Other Fair value of associated liabilities 2,365 72 2,437 2,969 133 3,101 Net position 168 -11 157 186 88 274 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 345 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Securitisations The bank uses securitisations as a source of funding whereby the Special Purpose Entity (SPE) Strategy issues debt securities. Pursuant to a securitisation transaction utilising true sale mechanics, the bank transfers the title of the assets to SPEs. When the cash flows are transferred to investors in the notes issued by consolidated securitisation vehicles, the assets (mainly residential mortgage loans) are considered to be transferred. Securities financing Business Securities financing transactions are entered into on a collateralised basis for mitigating the bank’s credit risk exposure. In repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions, ABN AMRO gets the securities returned at maturity. The counterparty in the transactions holds the securities as collateral, but has no recourse to other assets of ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO transfers the securities and, if the counterparty has the right to re-sell or re-pledge them, the bank considers these assets transferred assets. Risk, funding & capital Continuing involvement in transferred financial assets that are derecognised in their entirety The bank does not have any material transferred assets that are derecognised in their entirety, but where ABN AMRO has continuing involvement. Pledged and encumbered assets Pledged and encumbered assets are no longer readily available to the Group to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce the funding requirement. The following activities conducted by ABN AMRO give rise to pledged assets: Leadership ÅÅ cash and securities provided as collateral to secure trading and other liabilities, mainly derivatives; ÅÅ mortgages and SME loans pledged to secure funding transactions such as covered bonds and securitisations; ÅÅ securities lent as part of repurchase and securities lending transactions. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 346 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The following table provides an overview of assets pledged as security and encumbered assets. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Assets pledged Strategy Cash and balances at central banks 1 Financial assets held for trading 94 106 Financial investments available-for-sale 837 Loans and receivables-banks Interest bearing deposits 4,503 7,164 Business Loans and receivables-customers Residential mortgages 79,579 87,874 Commercial loans 6,476 5,298 Total assets pledged as security 91,492 100,442 Differences between pledged and encumbered assets Financial investments available-for-sale -724 Risk, funding & capital 410 Loans and receivables-banks1 270 863 Loans and receivables-customers2 -28,221 -42,846 Other assets 3 3,275 2,543 Total differences between pledged and encumbered assets -25,400 -39,030 Total encumbered assets 66,093 61,412 Total assets 394,482 407,373 Total encumbered assets as percentage of total assets 16.8% 15.1% Leadership 1 Includes mandatory reserve deposits. 2 Excludes mainly mortgage-backed securities. 3 Includes unit-linked investments. Total encumbered assets increased by EUR 4.7 billion to EUR 66.1 billion in December 2016 compared with EUR 61.4 billion in 2015, mainly due to the increase in covered bonds. Off-balance sheet collateral held as security for assets Governance Mainly as part of professional securities transactions, ABN AMRO obtains securities on terms which permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard professional securities transactions. ABN AMRO controls credit risk associated with these activities by monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral value on a daily basis and requiring additional collateral to be deposited with Annual Financial Statements or returned to the Group when deemed necessary. (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Fair value of securities received which can be sold or repledged 51,696 56,300 of which: fair value of securities repledged/sold to others 39,660 33,894 ABN AMRO has an obligation to return the securities accepted as collateral to its counterparties. Significant restrictions on the ability to access or use the Group’s assets The purpose of disclosing assets with significant restrictions is to provide information that enables Other users of its consolidated financial statements to evaluate the nature and extent of significant restrictions on its ability to access or use assets, and settle liabilities, of the Group. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 347 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction At balance sheet date, the Group did not have any material non-controlling interests and therefore did not give rise to significant restrictions. Restricted financial assets consist of assets pledged as collateral against an existing liability or Strategy contingent liability and encumbered assets. Other restrictions impacting the Group’s ability to use assets: ÅÅ assets as a result of collateralising repurchase and borrowing agreements (2016: EUR 16.7 billion, 2015: EUR 19.1 billion); Business ÅÅ assets held in certain jurisdictions to comply with local liquidity requirements and are subject to restrictions in terms of their transferability within the Group (2016: EUR 3.3 billion, 2015: EUR 1.8 billion). ABN AMRO Group in general is not subject to significant restrictions that would prevent the transfer of dividends and capital within the Group, except for regulated subsidiaries which are required to Risk, funding & capital maintain capital to comply with local regulations (2016: EUR 1.3 billion, 2015: EUR 1.3 billion). 34 Commitments and contingent liabilities Accounting policy for off-balance sheet items Commitments Loan commitments that allow for draw-down of a loan within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace are not recognised as derivative financial instruments. Leadership Acceptances comprise undertakings by ABN AMRO to pay bills of exchange drawn on clients. ABN AMRO expects most acceptances to be settled simultaneously with the reimbursement from clients. Acceptances are not recognised in the balance sheet and are disclosed as commitments. Financial guarantee contracts A financial guarantee contract requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the Governance holder for a loss it incurs if a specified debtor fails to make payment when due under the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. Initial recognition of financial guarantee contracts is at their fair value. Subsequent measurement is the higher of the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation, when appropriate, and the best estimate of the amount expected to settle the obligation. Annual Financial Statements Contingencies Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, and present obligations where the transfer of economic resources is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the balance sheet but are disclosed unless the outflow of economic resources is remote. Committed credit facilities Commitments to extend credit take the form of approved but undrawn loans, overdraft revolving and underwriting facilities. New loan offers have a commitment period that does not extend beyond the normal underwriting and settlement period. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 348 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Guarantees and other commitments ABN AMRO provides financial guarantees and letters of credit to guarantee the performance of Strategy customers to third parties. These transactions have fixed limits and generally extend for periods of up to 5 years. Expirations are not concentrated in any particular period. ABN AMRO also provides guarantees by acting as a settlement agent in securities borrowing and lending transactions. In addition, ABN AMRO has entered into transactions to guarantee various liabilities with respect to insurance-related regulatory reserve financing transactions. Business The contractual amounts of commitments and contingent liabilities are set out by category in the following table. The amounts stated in the table for commitments assume that amounts are fully advanced. The amounts reflected in the table for guarantees and letters of credit represent the maximum accounting loss that would be recognised at the balance sheet date if the relevant contract parties completely failed to perform as contracted. Risk, funding & capital Many of the contingent liabilities and commitments are expected to expire without being advanced in whole or in part. This means that the amounts stated do not represent expected future cash flows. Additionally, guarantees and letters of credit are supported by varying levels of collateral. Furthermore, statements of liability within the meaning of Article 403 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code have been issued for a number of its affiliated companies (see also chapter Other information). The committed credit facilities, guarantees and other commitments at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are summarised in the following table. Payments due by period Leadership Less than one Between one and Between three (in millions) year three years and five years After five years Total 31 December 2016 Committed credit facilities 15,473 4,920 5,014 1,892 27,299 Governance Guarantees and other commitments: Guarantees granted 244 378 69 1,967 2,659 Irrevocable letters of credit 4,306 852 445 575 6,178 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 6,790 209 4 35 7,037 Total guarantees and other commitments 11,340 1,439 518 2,577 15,873 Annual Financial Statements Total 26,813 6,358 5,532 4,469 43,173 31 December 2015 Committed credit facilities 9,136 4,173 4,667 3,583 21,559 Guarantees and other commitments: Guarantees granted 299 124 70 1,947 2,440 Irrevocable letters of credit 3,675 1,042 407 613 5,737 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 5,440 196 18 37 5,691 Total guarantees and other commitments 9,414 1,362 495 2,597 13,868 Other Total 18,550 5,535 5,162 6,180 35,427 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 349 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Total commitments and contingent liabilities increased by EUR 7.7 billion to EUR 43.2 billion at 31 December 2016 compared with EUR 35.4 billion at 31 December 2015. This increase was Strategy mainly caused by an increase of EUR 5.7 billion in the committed credit facilities and an increase of EUR 1.3 billion in the recourse risks arising from discounted bills. The increase in committed credit facilities by EUR 5.7 billion to 27.3 billion at 31 December 2016 related to a higher volume of outstanding credit offers of EUR 3.4 billion and higher irrevocable credit lines of EUR 2.4 billion. Leasing Business ABN AMRO mainly enters into leases classified as operating leases (including property rental). The total payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the period of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. If it is decided that an operating lease will Risk, funding & capital be terminated or vacated before the lease period has expired, the lesser of any penalty payments required and the remaining payments due once vacated (less sub leasing income) is recognised as an expense. If the lease agreement transfers substantially all the risks and rewards inherent to ownership of the asset, the lease is recorded as a finance lease and the related asset is capitalised. Operating lease commitments ABN AMRO leases various offices and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights. There are no contingent rents payable. ABN AMRO also leases equipment under non-cancellable lease arrangements. Leadership Total operating lease arrangements amounted to EUR 398 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 448 million), of which EUR 321 million (2015: EUR 376 million) is due within five years. Other contingencies ABN AMRO is involved in a number of legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business in a number of jurisdictions. In presenting consolidated financial information, management makes Governance estimates regarding the outcome of legal, regulatory and arbitration matters, and takes provisions to the income statement when losses with respect to such matters are more likely than not. Provisions are not recognised for matters for which expected cash outflow cannot be reasonably estimated or are not considered more likely than not to lead to a cash outflow. Some of these matters may be regarded as a contingency. It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of Annual Financial Statements potential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory matters as a class of contingent liabilities. On the basis of information currently available, and having taken counsel with legal advisors, ABN AMRO is of the opinion that the outcome of these proceedings is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position and the consolidated result of ABN AMRO. In particular the following matters are regarded as contingencies: Certain hedge funds initiated proceedings in Belgium and claimed an amount of EUR 1.75 billion plus 8.75% coupon until 7 December 2030 from four issuers, among which ABN AMRO, in relation to the conversion of Ageas mandatory convertible securities. On 23 March 2012, the Commercial Court in Brussels (Belgium) rejected all claims of the hedge funds. This verdict underlines the verdict in the Other summary proceedings (kort geding) of November 2010. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 350 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Certain hedge funds have filed an appeal against the verdict. ABN AMRO remains confident that it has acted within its rights and therefore also continues to be optimistic about the outcome of the Strategy currently pending appeal proceedings. As previously reported, ABN AMRO, certain of its subsidiaries and some of their client funds had exposure to funds that suffered losses (in some cases, significant losses) as a result of the Madoff fraud. Provision of the custodial services has resulted in a number of legal claims, including by BLMIS’ trustee in bankruptcy (Irving Picard), and liquidators of certain funds, as they pursue legal Business actions in attempts to recover payments made as a result of the Madoff fraud and/or to compensate their alleged losses. Certain ABN AMRO subsidiaries are defendants in these proceedings. In light of the preliminary status of those claims and other arrangements that may mitigate litigation exposure, it is not possible to estimate the total amount of ABN AMRO’s potential liability, if any. ABN AMRO continues to investigate and implement strategies for recovering the losses suffered. As previously reported, a total amount of EUR 16 million (exclusive of costs) was recovered in the first half of Risk, funding & capital 2009. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, one of ABN AMRO’s subsidiaries was able to sell shares and limited partnership interests that were provided to it as collateral or which it had bought to hedge its exposure in the context of the collateralised loans and total return swap transactions referred to above. These sales resulted in proceeds of EUR 52 million, EUR 78 million and EUR 253 million respectively and an equivalent amount provided for in 2008 was subsequently released. The Imtech N.V. group has been in financial difficulties ever since certain fraudulent events, perpetrated by certain managers and staff, were discovered a few years ago and was declared bankrupt in August 2015. ABN AMRO has extended credit to the Imtech N.V. group of businesses Leadership and it holds shares in Imtech N.V. further to its underwriting commitment in the Imtech N.V. rights offering of October 2014. In April 2015, Stichting ImtechClaim threatened to initiate a collective action lawsuit against, among others, Imtech N.V. and the four underwriters (including ABN AMRO Bank) of the Imtech N.V. rights offering of October 2014. Since a claim has not yet been formally filed, the complaint is not entirely clear but ABN AMRO expects that it would, among other complaints, appear to refer to prospectus liability and inappropriate behaviour as a result of conflicts of interest Governance (dubieuze dubbelrol). The amount of damages that Stichting ImtechClaim can claim depends on the number of people in the class. In August 2007, Sentinel Management Group, Inc. (‘Sentinel’), a futures commission merchant that managed customer segregated funds for ABN AMRO, filed for bankruptcy. Shortly before Sentinel filed for bankruptcy, Sentinel sold securities to Citadel Equity Fund, Ltd. The US Bankruptcy Court Annual Financial Statements ordered funds from the sale to Citadel Equity Fund, Ltd be distributed to certain Sentinel customers. ABN AMRO received its pro rata share of in total USD 53 million. On or about 15 September 2008, the bankruptcy trustee filed an adversary proceeding against all of the recipients of the court-ordered distribution of funds from the Citadel Equity Fund, Ltd sale, including ABN AMRO, claiming the repayment of the amounts received. The complaint also includes a claim for other monies ABN AMRO received shortly before Sentinel filed for bankruptcy. This regards an amount of USD 4 million and a claim for pre-judgement interest which could range from USD 0.4 million to USD 10 million. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 351 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction On 16 August 2016, ABN AMRO received a writ of summons from housing corporation Stichting Havensteder (Havensteder) relating to two extendable loans (the Loans) with a total principal amount Strategy of EUR 64 million. Havensteder claims partial annulment (partiële vernietiging) of the extendable part of the Loans since, according to Havensteder, the Loans conflict with the interest of public housing and public housing laws. Alternatively, Havensteder claims that as a result of unforeseen circumstances the interest rates on the Loans should be lowered to approx. 2.45% or 3.0%. In the further alternative, Havensteder claims partial annulment (partiële vernietiging) of the extendible part of the Loans in view of error (dwaling), breach of duty of care and breach of information duties. A court hearing in this matter Business is expected to take place in September 2017. On 22 August 2016 ABN AMRO received a writ of summons from the indirect shareholders of ABN AMRO’s former clients, the Partner Logistics Group. The claimants allege that ABN AMRO, among other defendants, acted wrongfully in relation to the bankruptcy of the Partner Logistics Group. Based on this, they claim damages in the amount of EUR 205 million. The litigation is ongoing Risk, funding & capital and ABN AMRO filed its statement of defence in January 2017. International Card Services B.V. (ICS), the credit card business of ABN AMRO, has identified certain issues from its past in respect of the granting of credit to consumers, as a result of which certain customers have been provided with loans above their lending capacity. This has been reported to the AFM. ICS has drafted a redress scheme that addresses remedial measures for customers that have been affected, which will inter alia include financial compensation for certain customers. ICS has created a financial reserve of EUR 63 million in respect of this redress scheme. ICS expects to roll out the redress scheme in Q2 2017 and expects to finalise the process by the end of 2018. Leadership Other contingencies includes EUR 14 million related to an irrevocable payment commitment (IPC) to the Single Resolution Board (SRB) in Brussels. In April 2016, the SRB provided credit institutions the option to fulfil part of the obligation to pay the annual ex-ante contributions to the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) through IPCs. To secure full and punctual payment, when called by the SRB, credit institutions needed to constitute cash collateral and fully transfer (legal) ownership to the SRB. Duty of care matters Governance A number of proceedings have been initiated against ABN AMRO for alleged breach of its duty of care in transparency-related standards and a larger number of proceedings have been threatened. Where applicable, provisions for these matters have been made. Annual Financial Statements There can be no assurance that additional proceedings will not be brought or that the amount demanded in claims brought to date will not rise. Current proceedings are pending and their outcome, as well as the outcome of any threatened proceedings, is uncertain, as is the timing of reaching any finality on these legal claims and proceedings. The uncertainties are likely to continue for some time. As a result, although the consequences could be substantial for ABN AMRO, with a potentially material adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s reputation, results of operations, financial condition and prospects, it is not possible to reliably estimate or quantify ABN AMRO’s exposure at this time. In conclusion, although claims in relation to alleged breach of the duty of care remain contingent, they have been (partly) provisioned. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 352 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Interest rate derivatives sold to SME clients Since 2014, there has been a public debate in the Netherlands on a bank’s duty of care towards Strategy SMEs with respect to interest rate derivatives. As explained in note 29 Provisions, the bank has entered into interest rate derivatives with approximately 6.800 SME clients in combination with floating interest rate loans. These SME clients entered into an interest rate derivative with the purpose of fixing their interest rate risk on their floating rate loans. A combination of a floating interest rate loan together with an interest rate swap Business was less expensive for the clients than the alternative of a loan with a fixed interest rate. As a result of the decline in interest rates, the interest rate swaps have a negative mark-to-market value. There are no negative consequences for clients as long as the loan is not repaid, in whole or in part, prior to its maturity date. Risk, funding & capital Individual or class action complaints and litigation Some SME clients needed or wanted to repay their floating interest rate loans prior to their maturity date. As a consequence, the interest rate swap needed to be unwound in order to assure that no overhedge was created. In line with standard market practice, in such situations the SME clients had to pay the bank the negative mark-to-market value of the interest rate swap. Such payment may be compared to the penalty interest on a fixed rate loan. The bank received multiple complaints and some clients and/or interest groups instigated legal proceedings about the bank’s alleged violation of its duty of care, for instance that the bank did not properly inform them of the risks associated with interest rate swaps. In most of these cases, the client’s claim was denied. In some other cases, Leadership the bank paid compensation to the client. For litigation in relation to SME derivatives, the bank does not recognise provisions for claims that do not meet the recognition and/or measurement criteria. There can be no assurance that additional proceedings will not be brought or that the amount demanded in claims brought to date will not rise. Current proceedings are pending and their outcome is uncertain. The uncertainties are likely to Governance continue for some time. In conclusion, claims in relation to the alleged breach of duty of care remain contingent. Uniform Recovery Framework In December 2015 the AFM concluded that some aspects of the reviews banks were conducting with respect to their SME client files containing interest rate derivatives would need to be amended. Annual Financial Statements On 1 March 2016, the AFM published a press release and a letter addressed to the Dutch Minister of Finance advising him to appoint a panel of independent experts for advice on the reassessment of SME and middle market interest rate derivatives. On 5 July 2016 the draft Uniform Recovery Framework prepared by this panel of independent experts was presented, and ABN AMRO committed to this framework. Based on the content of the Uniform Recovery Framework, ABN AMRO recognised a provision at year-end, the details of which are included in note 29 Provisions. After the presentation of the Uniform Recovery Framework the panel of independent experts, the banks involved, the AFM and interest groups worked together to finalise the Uniform Recovery Framework. On 19 December 2016 the final version of the Uniform Recovery Framework was presented by the panel of independent experts. The Uniform Recovery Framework will lead to Other revised compensation solutions for clients. At this time it is unclear how the Uniform Recovery Framework will impact pending and future litigation. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 353 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction As this is a possible liability dependent on a future event, there is no provision for this possible outflow of resources and it is therefore considered a contingency. In this respect reference is made Strategy to note 29 Provisions. Cross-liability A legal demerger may cause so-called cross-liabilities. Pursuant to section 2:334t of the Dutch Civil Code, the acquiring company or companies and the demerging company, if it continues to exist, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations of the demerging company at the time of the demerger. Business The acquiring companies and the continuing demerged company will remain fully liable for indivisible obligations. For divisible obligations (e.g. monetary obligations) the acquiring company to whom the obligation transferred or, if the obligation remained where it was, the company that continued to exist is fully liable. However, if an obligation has not been transferred to or remained with a company, that company’s liability for divisible obligations will be limited to the value of the assets acquired or retained in the demerger. A cross-liability is of a secondary nature. The company that did not acquire Risk, funding & capital or retain the obligation is not required to perform until the company that did acquire or retain the obligation has failed to perform. On 6 February 2010, the former ABN AMRO Bank N.V. demerged into two entities: RBS N.V. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (the ‘2010 Demerger’), giving rise to cross-liabilities similar to the crossliabilities described above. If ABN AMRO Bank N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the time of the 2010 Demerger, RBS N.V. is liable for the performance; if RBS N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the time of the 2010 Demerger, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. is liable. RBS N.V.’s contingent liability for divisible obligations as a result of the 2010 Demerger is limited to EUR 4 Leadership billion, whereas ABN AMRO Bank N.V.’s contingent liability is limited to EUR 1.8 billion (which amount remained unchanged as per 31 December 2016). ABN AMRO Bank N.V. has put in place arrangements to mitigate the risks of such contingent liability and received collateral from RBS Plc amounting to EUR 1.8 billion (2015: EUR 1.8 billion). ABN AMRO Bank N.V. did not post any collateral with RBS N.V. or RBS Plc. Governance On 7 August 2008, the EC Remedy part of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. was demerged to New HBU II N.V. (the ‘2008 Demerger’), giving rise to cross-liabilities similar to the cross-liabilities as described above. If ABN AMRO Bank N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the date of the 2008 Demerger, New HBU II N.V. is liable for the performance; if New HBU II N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the date of the 2008 Demerger, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. is liable. Annual Financial Statements On 1 April 2010, New HBU II N.V. was transferred to Deutsche Bank AG and renamed Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. As a result of the cross-liabilities described above, if RBS N.V. or ABN AMRO Bank N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the date of the 2008 Demerger, Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. is liable for the performance. Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V.’s contingent liability in this regard is limited to EUR 950 million. On 27 September 2014, pursuant to a put option exercised by Deutsche Bank AG, the assets and liabilities of Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V., apart from the cross-liabilities created as a result of the 2008 Demerger, were demerged into a newly incorporated subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG (the ‘2014 Demerger’). Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. was subsequently acquired by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and renamed Sumsare N.V. As a consequence, Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V.’s contingent liability under the 2008 Demerger is now held by Other Sumsare N.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Deutsche Bank AG indemnified Sumsare N.V. for any claims (including cross-liabilities) in connection with the 2014 Demerger. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 354 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Indemnity agreement with the Dutch State On 1 April 2010 ABN AMRO signed an indemnity agreement with the Dutch State (currently Strategy represented by NLFI) for a shortfall in capital above a certain amount related to specific assets and liabilities of RFS Holdings B.V. In July 2015 ABN AMRO was informed by NLFI about a claim it had received from RBS relating to these assets and liabilities in RFS Holdings B.V. This gives NLFI the right to file a claim with ABN AMRO. As of the publication date of these Consolidated Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO is not aware that a claim will be filled by NLFI. This situation could change in the future. Business 35 Related parties Parties related to ABN AMRO include NLFI with control, the Dutch State with significant influence, STAK AAG, associates, pension funds, joint ventures, the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board, close family members of any person referred to above, entities controlled or significantly influenced Risk, funding & capital by any person referred to above and any other related entities. ABN AMRO has applied the partial exemption for government-related entities as described in IAS 24 paragraphs 25-27. As part of its business operations, ABN AMRO frequently enters into transactions with related parties. Transactions conducted with the Dutch State are limited to normal banking transactions, taxation and other administrative relationships with the exception of items specifically disclosed in this note. Normal banking transactions relate to loans and deposits and are entered into under the same commercial and market terms that apply to non-related parties. Leadership Total outstanding loans and advances to members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO amounted to EUR 7.1 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 6.8 million). The outstanding loans and advances to members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board mainly consist of residential mortgages granted under standard personnel conditions. Other loans and advances are granted under client conditions (further information is provided in the Remuneration chapter of the Governance section). Loans and bank guarantees in the ordinary course of business may be granted by ABN AMRO Governance companies to executive managers or to close family members of Board members and close family members of executive managers. At 31 December 2016, there were no outstanding credits, loans or bank guarantees, other than the ones included in the ordinary course of business noted above. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 355 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Balances with joint ventures, associates and other (in millions) Joint ventures Associates Other Total 31 December 2016 Strategy Assets 14 382 396 Liabilities 205 710 914 Guarantees given 15 15 Guarantees received 7 7 Committed credit facilities 26 26 2016 Business Income received 34 45 79 Expenses paid 14 12 296 321 31 December 2015 Assets 15 364 379 Liabilities Risk, funding & capital 232 991 1,222 Guarantees given 15 15 Guarantees received 9 38 47 Committed credit facilities 28 28 2015 Income received 35 46 81 Expenses paid 15 9 281 305 Liabilities with joint ventures decreased by EUR 27 million as of 31 December 2016 compared with year-end 2015 due to lower customers deposits with financial institutions. Leadership Liabilities with associates decreased by EUR 281 million as of 31 December 2016 compared with year-end 2015 due to lower customers deposits held by other financial corporations. Guarantees received with associates decreased by EUR 31 million at 31 December 2016 compared with year-end 2015 mainly due to the sale of an entity. Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 356 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Balances with the Dutch State (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Assets: Strategy Financial assets held for trading 269 423 Derivatives 1,701 1,891 Financial investments-available for sale 6,592 6,540 Loans and receivables-customers 782 882 Other assets 99 99 Liabilities: Business Derivatives 2,371 2,641 Due to customers1 830 1,811 Financial liabilities held for trading 9 204 Subordinated loans 2016 2015 Risk, funding & capital Income statement: Interest income 141 150 Interest expense 44 107 Net trading income -24 -8 Net fee and commission income 1 Other income 39 1 1 Part of Due to customers (EUR 0.8 billion) is related to liabilities the Dutch State acquired from Ageas on 3 October 2008. Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) is still the legal owner of specific consortium shared assets and Leadership liabilities. This means that these assets and liabilities are for the risk and reward of RBS, Santander and the Dutch State as the shareholder of RFS Holdings B.V. On 1 April 2010, ABN AMRO signed an indemnity agreement with the Dutch State for a shortfall in capital above a certain amount related to specific assets and liabilities of RFS Holdings. Transactions and balances related to taxation are included in note 10 Income tax expense, tax assets Governance and tax liabilities. Most of the tax items in this note consist of transactions and balances with the Dutch tax authorities. The regulatory charges relating to the Dutch State are included in note 9 General and administrative expenses. Annual Financial Statements Financial assets held for trading and financial liabilities held for trading decreased mainly as a result of lower Dutch government bonds related to the primary dealership in the Netherlands and of client facilitation. Most of these contracts are hedged with short positions in government bonds. Derivatives related to both assets and liabilities decreased as of 31 December 2016 compared with 2015 mainly due to lower lending positions of the Dutch State. Derivatives transactions with the Dutch State are related to the normal course of business. Due to customers decreased by EUR 1.0 billion as of 31 December 2016 compared with year-end 2015, due to the redemption of part of the loan (including accrued interest) acquired from the Other Dutch State related to Ageas on 3 October 2008. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 357 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Interest expenses decreased by EUR 63 million as of 31 December 2016 compared with year-end 2015 due to redemptions within due to customers in 2016 and 2015. Net trading income decreased by EUR 16 million as of 31 December 2016 compared with year-end Strategy 2015 due to sold government bonds within segment Capital Markets Solutions. Other income increased by EUR 38 million as of 31 December 2016 compared with year-end 2015 as a result of generated results on financial investments – available for sale. Business 36 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board Remuneration of Managing Board ABN AMRO’s remuneration policy was formally approved by shareholders and adopted by Risk, funding & capital the Supervisory Board. The remuneration package for the Managing Board consists of the following components: ÅÅ annual base salary; ÅÅ benefits and other entitlements; ÅÅ severance payments. The following statement summarises the income components for the individual Managing Board members for the year 2016. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 358 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2016 Total pension Base Variable related Severance salary1 remuneration2 contribitions3 payments Total Post Short-term Strategy employee allowances (In thousands) pension (3a) (3b) G. Zalm 775 34 275 1,084 J. van Hall 620 34 213 867 C. van Dijkhuizen 620 34 171 825 Business C.E. Princen 620 34 213 867 W. Reehoorn 620 34 213 867 C.F.H.H. Vogelzang 620 34 213 867 J.G. Wijn 620 34 213 867 Total 4,495 238 1,511 6,244 2015 Risk, funding & capital Repayment Repayment Total Total pension temporary postrecognised Base Variable related Severance fixed employment in profit and salary1 remuneration2 contribitions3 payments Total income pension loss Post Short-term employee allowances (In thousands) pension (3a) (3b) G. Zalm 767 31 252 1,050 1,050 J. van Hall 614 31 195 840 -100 -28 712 C. van Dijkhuizen 614 31 154 799 -100 -30 669 C.E. Princen 614 31 195 840 -100 -32 708 Leadership W. Reehoorn 614 31 195 840 -100 -28 712 C.F.H.H. Vogelzang 614 31 195 840 -100 -28 712 J.G. Wijn 614 31 195 840 -100 -31 709 Total 4,451 217 1,381 6,049 -600 -177 5,272 1 Inclusive 1% salary adjustment in accordance with the developments in the collective labour agreement for the banking industry (“CAO Banken”). 2 As a consequence of the applicability of the Bonus Prohibition Act the Managing Board Members are not entitled to receive variable compensation. This prohibition applies since the performance year 2011. The Managing Board Members participate in Group’s pension plans as applicable to the employees in The Netherlands. Total pension related contributions Governance 3 as applicable as of 2015 refer to (3a) the employer contribution to the pension fund (for the CDC pension scheme for pensionable income up to EUR 101,519) and (3b) the arrangement in accordance with the ABN AMRO Collective Labour Agreement (“ABN AMRO CAO”) as described in the Remuneration policy on page 237. Loans from ABN AMRO to Managing Board members The following table summarises outstanding loans to the members of the Managing Board at 31 December. Annual Financial Statements 2016 2015 Outstanding Outstanding (In thousands) 31 December Redemptions Interest rate 31 December Redemptions Interest rate J. van Hall 69 3.5% 69 3.5% C.E. Princen 747 47 2.6% 794 16 3.0% W. Reehoorn 1,429 3.8% 1,429 3.8% C.F.H.H. Vogelzang 1,402 13 1.7% 1,415 11 1.9% J.G. Wijn 247 403 2.3% 650 111 1.8% Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 359 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Remuneration of the Supervisory Board The following statement summarises the income components for the individual Strategy Supervisory Board members. (In thousands) 20169 20159 O.L. Zoutendijk1 86 77 D.J.M.G. van Slingelandt2 34 91 S. ten Have 63 62 J.M. Roobeek 68 63 Business J.S.T. Tiemstra3 77 A.C. Dorland3 70 F.J. Leeflang3 61 J.B.J. Stegmann4 41 A. Meerstadt5 20 65 H.P. de Haan6 30 78 Risk, funding & capital M.J. Oudeman 7 54 P.N. Wakkie8 19 Total 550 507 1 O.L. Zoutendijk was appointed as Chairman as of 18 May 2016. 2 D.J.M.G. van Slingelandt stepped down as Chairman and member of the Supervisory Board as of 18 May 2016. 3 A.C. Dorland, J.S.T. Tiemstra and F.J. Leeflang were appointed as member of the Supervisory Board as per 18 May 2016. The remuneration reflects the full year 2016. 4 J.B.J. Stegmann acted as member of the Supervisory Board as of 10 June 2016 and was appointed as member of the Supervisory Board on 12 August 2016. The remuneration reflects the period 10 June 2016 till 31 December 2016. 5 A. Meerstadt stepped down as member of the Supervisory Board as of 7 April 2016. 6 H.P de Haan stepped down as member of the Supervisory Board as of 18 May 2016. 7 M.J. Oudeman stepped down as Member of the Supervisory Board as of 30 September 2015. P.N. Wakkie stepped down as member of the Supervisory Board as of 1 April 2015. Leadership 8 9 Remuneration amounts excluding VAT. Loans from ABN AMRO to Supervisory Board members The following table summarises the outstanding loans to the members of the Supervisory Board at 31 December. Governance 2016 2015 Outstanding Outstanding (In thousands) 31 December Redemptions Interest rate 31 December Redemptions Interest rate J.M. Roobeek 1,700 150 3.5% 1,850 4.0% S. ten Have 600 3.8% 600 3.8% J.B.J. Stegmann1 900 0.2% Annual Financial Statements 1 J.B.J. Stegmann was appointed as member of the Supervisory Board as of 12 August 2016. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 360 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 37 Employee share option and share purchase plans No employee share based payments plans were in place for the years 2016 and 2015. However, the Strategy variable compensation plan will change in 2017 and will be a share-based payment plan for Identified Staff only. The main features are summarised below. Variable compensation Identified Staff Eligibility to participate in the Variable Compensation Plan (VCP) is at the sole discretion of the Supervisory Board. Due to the Bonus Prohibition Act, the Managing Board is not eligible to receive Business variable income as long as the Dutch State holds an interest in the ABN AMRO Group, and therefore they do not participate in the VCP. A VCP reward is made in March of the calendar year following the performance year. Sixty percent of each award is an upfront award and forty percent is deferred. The deferred portion vests in three tranches: on the first, second and third anniversaries following the end of the performance period. Risk, funding & capital 50% of each payment is in the form of cash, and the other 50% is in non-cash instruments. As a result of ABN AMRO Group N.V. being a listed company, the non-cash instrument will be based on listed depositary receipts (DRs) instead of performance certificates as from the performance year 2016. All outstanding performance certificates awarded up to and including 2016 will be phased out over time. The terms and conditions regarding the non-cash instrument to be used had not been finalised as of 31 December 2016. These terms will be finalised in 2017 and communicated to the relevant employees after the issuance date of these Annual Financial Statements. For the 2016 performance Leadership year, the non-cash instrument as of the award date in March 2017 is expected to be structured in the form of a number of restricted stock units (RSUs) that entitles employees to DRs reflecting the initial value of the reward. When calculating the number of RSUs, ABN AMRO intends to take the average DR price over a number of trading days preceding the date of granting the reward to reduce the effect of incidental share price movements. Governance The RSUs will be subject to a two-year retention period once vested. Although ex-post risk adjustment provisions cease to apply to vested RSUs, adjustment, cancellation and clawback provisions continue to apply during the retention period. The RSUs will be converted into DRs after the end of the retention period, subject to an employee’s continued employment until this date or a good leaver status under the VCP. Annual Financial Statements 38 Post balance sheet events There have been no significant events between the year-end and the date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or disclosure in the accounts. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 361 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Statutory financial statements ABN AMRO Group N.V. Introduction Statutory financial statements ABN AMRO Group N.V. Strategy Accounting policies Business The company financial statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements in Title 9 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. ABN AMRO Group N.V. prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS). ABN AMRO Group N.V. applies the option as included in section 2:362 paragraph 8. Participating interests in group companies are valued at net asset value using the same valuation principles that are used in the Consolidated Financial Risk, funding & capital Statements. The share in the results of participating interests in group companies is reported in accordance with the principles of valuation and profit determination that apply to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Reference is made to the accounting policies section in the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective notes and Other information. ABN AMRO Group N.V. is registered at Gustav Mahlerlaan 10, 1082 PP Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Chamber of Commerce number 34370515). The Annual Financial Statements were prepared by the Managing Board and authorised for issue by the Supervisory Board and Managing Board on 14 March 2017. Leadership Change in accounting approach In 2016 ABN AMRO implemented a change of accounting approach in its statutory financial statements. The capital securities of EUR 993 million have been excluded from the statutory equity of ABN AMRO Group N.V. The securities classify as an equity instrument under IFRS for Governance ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Consequently, the participating interest in Group companies decreased by the same amount. ABN AMRO is of the opinion that this change results in more relevant information for the users of the statutory financial statements. The capital securities issued by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. are part of the consolidated equity of the Group. However, excluding these instruments from the statutory Annual Financial Statements equity of ABN AMRO Group N.V. emphasises the fact that these instruments are held by third parties. The comparative 2015 Statement of financial position has been adjusted accordingly. Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in euros, which is the presentation currency of the company, rounded to the nearest million (unless otherwise stated). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 362 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Statutory financial statements ABN AMRO Group N.V. Introduction Statutory income statement ABN AMRO Group N.V. (in millions) 2016 2015 Income: Strategy Share in result from participating interests after taxation 1,805 1,919 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,805 1,919 Share in result from participating interests after taxation decreased by EUR 114 million to Business EUR 1,805 million (2015: an increase of EUR 785 million). Statement of financial position ABN AMRO Group N.V. (before appropriation of profit) Risk, funding & capital (in millions) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Assets Participating interest in Group companies 17,939 16,575 Total assets 17,939 16,575 Equity Share capital 940 940 Share premium 12,970 12,970 Legal reserves 77 -281 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 3,951 2,946 Leadership Total statutory equity ABN AMRO Group N.V. 17,939 16,575 Reconciliation to consolidated equity ABN AMRO Group N.V.1 Capital securities 993 993 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 5 17 Total consolidated equity ABN AMRO Group N.V. 18,937 17,584 1 This relates to capital securities issued by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. which attribute to the economic value of the participation held by ABN AMRO Group N.V. Governance and as such is incorporated in total equity of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 363 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Statutory financial statements ABN AMRO Group N.V. Introduction Statement of changes in equity ABN AMRO Group N.V. Other Total Total Strategy reserves statutory consolidated including equity Reconciliation equity Share Share Legal retained ABN AMRO to consolidated equity ABN AMRO capital premium reserves earnings Group N.V. 1 ABN AMRO Group N.V.2 Group N.V. Equity attributable to Capital non-controlling (in millions) securities interests Business Balance at 1 January 2015 940 12,970 -704 1,659 14,865 12 14,877 Total comprehensive income 422 1,912 2,335 5 2,340 Dividend -625 -625 -625 Increase/(decrease) of capital 993 993 Other changes in equity -1 -1 Balance at 31 December 2015 940 12,970 -281 2,946 16,575 993 17 17,584 Risk, funding & capital Total comprehensive income 357 1,833 2,190 1 2,191 Dividend -790 -790 -12 -802 Interest AT 1 capital securities -41 -41 -41 Other changes in equity 1 4 5 5 Balance at 31 December 2016 940 12,970 77 3,951 17,939 993 5 18,937 1 Other changes in equity relates to a correction of previous years. 2 This relates to capital securities issued by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. which attribute to the economic value of the participation held by ABN AMRO Group N.V. and as such is incorporated in total equity of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Leadership During the year 2016, ABN AMRO has performed a review of the presentation of its reserves in these statements. In order to align the presentation of the reserves with its peers, ABN AMRO has chosen to present its total reserves as legal reserves and other reserves going forward. Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. Legal reserves includes reserves such as currency translation reserve, available-for-sale reserve, Governance results retained from participating interests and cash flow hedge reserve, which are non-distributable reserves. Total comprehensive income includes EUR 1,805 million profit from participating interests (2015: EUR 1,919 million profit). Annual Financial Statements The total dividend paid in 2016 was EUR 790 million (2015: EUR 625 million). This contains the final dividend 2015 of EUR 414 million and the interim dividend 2016 of EUR 376 million (2015: EUR 275 million). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 364 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Statutory financial statements ABN AMRO Group N.V. Introduction Participating interests in group companies ABN AMRO Group N.V. has one subsidiary, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. ABN AMRO Group N.V. is Strategy the sole shareholder of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Movements in participating interests in group companies are shown in the following table. (in millions) 2016 2015 Balance as at 1 January 16,575 14,865 Business Result from participating interests 1,805 1,915 Dividend upstream -790 -625 Interest AT 1 capital securities -41 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 28 -2 Currency translation 29 101 Available for sale 84 144 Risk, funding & capital Cash flow hedge 213 166 Share of OCI of associates and joint ventures 31 11 Other Other comprehensive income 385 420 Other changes 5 Balance as at 31 December 17,939 16,575 Issued capital and reserves As at 31 December 2016, the authorised share capital of ABN AMRO Group N.V. amounted Leadership to EUR 4.7 billion distributed over 4,500,000,000 ordinary shares and 200,000,000 class B ordinary shares. All shares have a nominal value of EUR 1.00 each and each share entitles the shareholder to one vote per share. Governance As at 31 December 2016, issued and paid-up capital by ABN AMRO Group N.V. consisted of 940,000,001 ordinary shares (EUR 940 million). Issued guarantees For a few group companies established in the Netherlands, general guarantees have been issued Annual Financial Statements within the scope of Article 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code by ABN AMRO Group N.V. for an amount of EUR 181.3 billion (2015: EUR 186.2 billion). Other information provides a list of the major subsidiaries and associated companies of ABN AMRO Group N.V. for which a general guarantee has been issued. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 365 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Statutory financial statements ABN AMRO Group N.V. Introduction Profit appropriation For more information refer to note 11 Earnings per share and note 32 Equity attributable Strategy to shareholders of the parent company in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. ​​​​​​​Post balance sheet events For more information refer to note 38 Post balance sheet events in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Business Fiscal unity ABN AMRO Group N.V. forms a fiscal unity with several Dutch subsidiaries for corporate income tax purposes. All the members of the fiscal unity become jointly and severally liable for the corporate income tax liabilities of the fiscal unity. Risk, funding & capital Authorisation of Parent Company Annual Accounts 14 March 2017 The Supervisory Board O.L. (Olga) Zoutendijk, Chairman S. (Steven) ten Have, Vice-Chairman A.C. (Arjen) Dorland Leadership F.J. (Frederieke) Leeflang J.M. (Annemieke) Roobeek J.B.J. (Jurgen) Stegmann J.S.T. (Tjalling) Tiemstra The Managing Board Governance C. (Kees) van Dijkhuizen, CEO and Chairman J. (Johan) van Hall, COO and Vice-Chairman W. (Wietze) Reehoorn, CRO Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 366 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Other information Introduction Other information Major subsidiaries and participating interests Strategy The following table shows the Branches, major subsidiaries and participating interests at 31 December 2016. ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands Retail banking Business ABN AMRO Digital Impact Investments B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Digital Impact Fund B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep B.V.1 Amersfoort, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Pensioeninstelling N.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands ALFAM Holding N.V.1 Bunnik, The Netherlands Risk, funding & capital Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. 49% Zwolle, The Netherlands International Card Services B.V.1 Diemen, The Netherlands MoneYou B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Private banking ABN AMRO Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. Luxembourg, Luxembourg ABN AMRO Life Capital Belgium N.V. Brussels, Belgium ABN AMRO Life S.A. Luxembourg, Luxembourg ABN AMRO Social Impact Investments B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Social Impact Fund B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands Leadership ABN AMRO (Guernsey) Ltd St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands Banque Neuflize OBC S.A. 99.86% Paris, France Bethmann Bank A.G. Frankfurt am Main, Germany Bethmann Liegenschaft K.G. 50% Frankfurt am Main, Germany Cofiloisirs S.A. 45% Paris, France Neuflize Vie S.A. 60% Paris, France Governance Triodos MeesPierson Sustainable Investment Management B.V. 50% Zeist, The Netherlands Corporate banking ABN AMRO Capital USA LLC New York, USA ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Clearing Chicago LLC Chicago, USA ABN AMRO Clearing Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong, China Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO Clearing Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore, Singapore ABN AMRO Clearing Sydney Pty Sydney, Australia ABN AMRO Clearing Tokyo Ltd Tokyo, Japan ABN AMRO Commercial Finance Holding B.V.1 s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Commercial Finance (UK) Ltd Haywards Heath, United Kingdom ABN AMRO Commercial Finance GmbH Köln, Germany ABN AMRO Commercial Finance N.V.1 s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Commercial Finance S.A. Paris, France ABN AMRO Effecten Compagnie B.V. 1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Groenbank B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Investment Holding B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Jonge Bedrijven Fonds B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Other ABN AMRO Lease N.V.1 Utrecht, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 367 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Other information Introduction ABN AMRO Participaties Fund I B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Participaties NPE Fund N.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Securities USA LLC New York, USA Aline Holding S.A. 50% Majuro, Marshall Islands Strategy Alma Maritime Ltd 42% Majuro, Marshall Islands Attema B.V. 93% Gorinchem, The Netherlands Banco ABN AMRO S.A. São Paulo, Brasil Bass Drill Alpha Ltd 26% Hamilton, Bermuda CM Bulk Ltd 50% Nassau, Bahamas Business Edda Accommodation Holding AS 20% Oslo, Norway European Merchant Services B.V. 49% Diemen, The Netherlands European Central Counterparty N.V. 20% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Graig MCI Ltd 49% Cardiff, United Kingdom Holland Venture B.V. 45% Amsterdam, The Netherlands ICE Clear Netherlands B.V. 25% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Iceman IS 39% Oslo, Norway Risk, funding & capital Icestar B.V. Rotterdam, The Netherlands Maas Capital Investments B.V.1 Rotterdam, The Netherlands Maas Capital Offshore B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands Maas Capital Renewables B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands Poseidon Containers Holdings LLC 6% Majuro, Marshall Islands Principal Finance Investments Holding B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Richmont Preferente aandelen C B.V. 50% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Safe Ship Investment Company S.C.A. SICAR 48% Luxembourg, Luxembourg Leadership Group functions ABN AMRO Arbo Services B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Funding USA LLC New York, USA ABN AMRO Holding International AG Zug, Switzerland ABN AMRO Holdings USA LLC New York, USA Currence Holding B.V. 36% Amsterdam, The Netherlands equensWorldline S.E. 7% Utrecht, The Netherlands Governance Geldservices Nederland B.V. 33% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Nederlandse Financieringsmij voor Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. 20% Den Haag, The Netherlands Stater N.V. Amersfoort, The Netherlands Branches/Representative Offices ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Belgium) Branch Berchem, Belgium ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Hong Kong) Branch Hong Kong, China Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Norway) Branch Oslo, Norway ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Singapore) Branch Singapore, Singapore ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (UAE/DIFC) Branch Dubai, United Arabic Emirates ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (UK) Branch London, United Kingdom ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Branch Spain Marbella, Spain ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Frankfurt Branch Frankfurt am Main, Germany ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Shanghai Branch Shanghai, China ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office (Dubai Multi Commodities Centre) Dubai, United Arabic Emirates ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office Greece Piraeus, Greece ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office Moscow Moscow, Russia ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office New York New York, USA Other ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. (Singapore) Branch Singapore, Singapore ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 368 Annual Financial Statements 2016 / Other information Introduction ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. (UK) Branch London, United Kingdom ABN AMRO Lease N.V. (UK) Branch London, United Kingdom ABN AMRO Lease N.V. Branch Deutschland Frankfurt am Main, Germany International Card Services B.V. Branch Deutschland Düsseldorf, Germany Strategy 1 A statement of liability within the meaning of Article 403, subsection 1, paragraph f, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been issued for these companies. The interest is 100%, unless otherwise stated. Business The full list of participating interests as referred to in Article 414, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been filed with the Trade Register.​​​​​​​ Provisions of Article of Association concerning profit appropriation The provisions regarding the reservation and distribution of profits are included in Article 10 of Risk, funding & capital the Articles of Association. In accordance with the reserve and dividend policy and subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Managing Board proposes to the General Meeting of Shareholders which part of the profit is to be reserved. The remainder of the profit will be at the free disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders, pursuant to a proposal to this end by the Management Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. ABN AMRO announced its dividend policy in September 2015, which targets a payout ratio of 40% of the reported net annual profit for 2015 and rising to 50% of the 2017 net profit. This target was increased based on the expected strong capital generation, while allowing for a further build-up of Leadership capital. Even though ABN AMRO remains well capitalised under Basel III, the bank would like to further build up additional capital buffers in order to execute its strategic ambitions and manage the impact of new regulations (Basel IV). ​​​​​​ Any distribution of dividend remains discretionary, and deviations from the above policy may be proposed by ABN AMRO.​​​​​​​ Governance Fiscal unity ABN AMRO Group N.V. forms a fiscal unity with several Dutch subsidiaries for corporate income tax purposes. All the members of the fiscal unity become jointly and severally liable for the corporate income tax liabilities of the fiscal unity. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Introduction Other Strategy Other gives an overview of definitions of important terms and abbreviations used in the Annual Report. Enquiries and the Cautionary statements are included in Other. Business 370 386 Risk, funding & capital Independent auditor’s report Abbreviations on financial statements 377 388 Cautionary statements Assurance report of the independent 389 Leadership auditor 379 Enquiries Governance Our external reporting landscape 380 Annual Financial Statements Definitions of important terms Other 370 Other / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Strategy Independent auditor’s report Business To: the shareholders and Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Report on the audit of the financial statements 2016 included in the Annual Report 2016 Our opinion We have audited the financial statements 2016 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. (ABN AMRO or the Company) based in Amsterdam. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the Risk, funding & capital company financial statements. In our opinion: • The accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of ABN AMRO Group N.V. as at 31 December 2016, and of its result and its cash flows for 2016 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. • The accompanying company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of ABN AMRO Group N.V. as at 31 December 2016, and of its result for 2016 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Leadership The consolidated financial statements comprise: • The consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 • The following statements for 2016: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income and changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows • The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information The company financial statements comprise: • The company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 Governance • The company income statement for 2016 • The notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information Basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. Annual Financial Statements We are independent of ABN AMRO Group N.V. in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 371 Other / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Strategy Page 2 Materiality Business Materiality EUR 130 million Benchmark applied 5% of operating profit before taxation Explanation Based on our professional judgment, a benchmark of 5% of operating profit before taxation is an appropriate quantitative indicator of materiality and it best reflects the financial performance of ABN AMRO. We have applied the initial planning materiality of EUR 130 million (rounded) as set in our planning phase. Based on the 2016 actual operating profit before taxation, we reassessed the Risk, funding & capital materiality and concluded to continue to apply the materiality initially set. We have also taken misstatements into account and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess of EUR 6.5 million, which are identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. Scope of the group audit ABN AMRO Group N.V. is at the head of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is Leadership included in the consolidated financial statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Our group audit mainly focused on significant group entities in the Netherlands, Germany, France and United States based on size and risk. All components in scope for group reporting are audited by EY member firms. Collectively, the EY member firms completed procedures covering approximately 89% of the group’s total assets and approximately 85% of operating profit before taxation. By performing our procedures at group entities, together with procedures at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient coverage and appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial information Governance to provide an opinion about the consolidated financial statements. Our key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in Annual Financial Statements forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 372 Other / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Strategy Page 3 Estimation uncertainty with respect to impairment allowances for loans and receivables Business Key audit matter The appropriateness of the loan impairment allowances for loans and receivables requires judgment of management. Impairment losses are incurred if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of a loss event that has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the loans and receivables that can be reliably estimated. The identification of impairment and the determination of the recoverable amount are part of the estimation process at ABN AMRO including, amongst others, the assessment of objective evidence for impairment, the Risk, funding & capital financial condition of the counterparty, the expected future cash flows and the value of collateral. The use of different modelling techniques and assumptions could lead to different estimates of impairment charges on loans and receivables. Furthermore, associated risk management disclosures are complex and dependent on high quality data. As the loans and receivables represent the majority of ABN AMRO’s balance sheet and given the related estimation uncertainty on impairment charges, we consider this a key audit matter. Please refer to the Critical accounting estimates and judgments section in note 1 to the financial statements, note 20 Loans and receivables customers and related disclosures of credit risk within the Risk, funding & capital section of the Managing Board report. Leadership Our audit approach We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the controls within the loan origination process, risk management process and the estimation process of determining impairment allowances. For loan impairment allowances determined on an individual basis we have performed detailed credit file reviews. We challenged the assumptions underlying the impairment identification and quantification including forecasts of future cash flows, valuation of underlying collateral and estimates of recovery on default. For loan impairment allowances calculated on a collective basis we tested, supported by our specialists, the underlying models including the Company’s model approval and validation Governance process. We also tested the appropriateness and accuracy of the inputs to those models, such as recovery and cure rates, and where available, compared data and assumptions made to external benchmarks. Finally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures and whether the disclosures are in compliance with the requirements included in EU-IFRS. Estimation uncertainty with respect to provisions Key audit matter Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and require judgment of management. The use of estimates and the determination of possible outcomes is Annual Financial Statements an essential part of the recognition and measurement of a provision. In 2016, ABN AMRO recorded, amongst others, provisions for SME derivative compensation, for restructuring programs, for tax related investigations and for the ICS recovery framework. As it is difficult to determine the size of the provisions and as the amounts involved are significant, we consider this a key audit matter. Please refer to the Critical accounting estimates and judgments in note 1 and note 29 Provisions to the financial statements. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 373 Other / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Strategy Page 4 Our audit approach Controls designed to ensure the completeness and adequacy of the provisions Business recorded were tested. We assessed whether the provisions recognized are adequate and do meet ABN AMRO’s accounting policies and other legal requirements. We examined the composition of the provisions and assessed the assumptions and judgment made by management. Possible outcomes were considered for material provisions to independently assess the appropriateness of the judgment made by ABN AMRO. Finally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures and whether the disclosures are in compliance with the requirements included in EU-IFRS. Risk, funding & capital Estimation uncertainty with respect to financial instruments measured at fair value Key audit matter The current economic conditions and low interest rate environment impact the fair value measurements of ABN AMRO’s portfolio measured at fair value. Valuation techniques and models used can be subjective in nature and involve various assumptions regarding pricing. In addition, the number of factors influencing the determination of fair value can be extensive and can vary both by type of instrument and/or within instrument types. The use of different valuation techniques and assumptions could produce significantly different estimates of fair value. Furthermore, valuation adjustments are subject to the use of credit spreads. If no direct credit spreads are available, ABN AMRO performs a probability of default assessment for each counterparty and allocates an Leadership appropriate internal credit risk measure. As the use of different assumptions could produce different estimates of fair value and any fair value change is reflected in the statement of comprehensive income or the income statement, we consider this a key audit matter. Please refer to the Critical accounting estimates and judgments in note 1 and note 18 Fair value of financial instruments to the financial statements. Our audit approach We obtained an understanding of the internal control framework related to the Governance valuation of financial instruments, including price testing and model validation. We assessed the appropriateness of the model calculation methodology with the assistance of our valuation experts and we performed recalculation of the fair valuation on a sample basis. This includes the assessment of market data inputs and key assumptions, including third party prices, pre-payment rates, constant loss given default and discount rates as critical factors used in the fair value models, based on our experience and market practice. Furthermore, we performed substantive procedures with respect to the reconciliation of collateral data to contract data. Finally, we assessed the completeness and accuracy of the Annual Financial Statements disclosures relating to the fair values of these financial instruments to assess compliance with disclosure requirements included in EU-IFRS, including valuation sensitivity and fair value hierarchy. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 374 Other / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Strategy Page 5 Reliability and continuity of the information technology and systems Business Key audit matter ABN AMRO is dependent on the IT infrastructure for the continuity and reliability of their business processes and financial reporting. ABN AMRO continuously makes investments to further improve the IT environment and IT systems. The role of financial disclosures is important to stakeholders and increasing data granularity in financial reporting and regulatory reporting requirements urge for high quality data and an adequate IT environment. We therefore consider this as a key audit matter. Risk, funding & capital Please refer to the Risk, funding & capital section of the Managing Board report. Our audit approach We tested the IT general controls related to logical access and change management and application controls relied upon for financial reporting and embedded in ABN AMRO’s key processes. In some areas we performed additional procedures on access management and related systems. We also assessed the reliability and continuity of the IT environment and the possible impact of changes during the year either from ongoing internal restructuring initiatives or from external factors such as reporting requirements. We assessed the reliability and continuity of electronic data processing only to the extent necessary within the scope of the audit of the financial statements. In addition, our audit procedures consisted of assessing the developments in the IT infrastructure and Leadership analyzing the impact on the IT organization. Report on other information included in the Annual Report 2016 In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the Annual Report contains other information that consists of: • Introduction Governance • Strategy • Business • Risk, funding & capital • Leadership • Governance • Other Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information: Annual Financial Statements • Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements • Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 375 Other / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Strategy Page 6 The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the Managing Business Board report in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Engagement We were engaged by the Supervisory Board as auditor of ABN AMRO Group N.V. on 11 September 2015 as of the audit for the year 2016 and have operated as incoming statutory auditor ever since that date. Risk, funding & capital Description of responsibilities for the financial statements Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as the Managing Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Managing Board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks Leadership mentioned, the Managing Board should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Managing Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process. Governance Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Annual Financial Statements basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit included e.g.: • �Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 376 Other / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Strategy Page 7 as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of Business internal control • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Managing Board • Concluding on the appropriateness of the Managing Board’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related Risk, funding & capital to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a company to cease to continue as a going concern • �Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures • �Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising Leadership and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items. We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. Governance We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes Annual Financial Statements public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. Amsterdam, 14 March 2017 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP signed by W.J. Smit Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 377 Other / Assurance report of the independent auditor Introduction Strategy Assurance report of the independent auditor Business To: the shareholders and Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Our conclusion We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the disclosures marked with “limited assurance” (hereafter: selected disclosures) in the Annual Report 2016 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. based in Amsterdam (hereafter: ABN AMRO). Our scope is further explained in the section “Our scope”. Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected disclosures are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting Risk, funding & capital criteria of ABN AMRO as disclosed on page 2 of the Annual Report 2016. We believe these criteria are suitable for the purpose of our assurance engagement. Basis for our conclusion We conducted our assurance engagement on the selected disclosures in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standard 3000, “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information”. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the section “Our responsibilities” in this assurance report. We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Our Independence Leadership We are independent of ABN AMRO in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence)” and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not perform any activities that could result in a conflict of interest with our independent assurance engagement. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics)”. Our Scope Our assurance engagement is restricted to the selected disclosures. These disclosures relate to topic Governance numbers 1-12, 14 and 16, which are part of the 20 topics as determined in the chapter “What matters most” on pages 16-19 in the Annual Report 2016. The selected disclosures reflect ABN AMRO’s approach and performance with respect to the 14 topics. We have not performed assurance procedures on any other information in the Annual Report 2016 in light of this engagement. An overview with reference to the selected disclosures, marked with “limited assurance” throughout the Annual Report 2016, is included in the chapter “What matters most”. The information included in the selected disclosures for the periods before 2016 was not subject to an assurance engagement. Consequently, we do not provide assurance on the corresponding information in Annual Financial Statements the selected disclosures for the periods before 2016. The selected disclosures contain prospective information, such as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this information is that actual results may differ in the future and are therefore uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the achievability and feasibility of prospective information. Responsibilities Responsibilities of Management and the Supervisory Board Management is responsible for the preparation of the selected disclosures in accordance with the reporting criteria of ABN AMRO as disclosed on page 2 of the Annual Report 2016, including the identification of the intended users, the determination of material issues and the reporting criteria being applicable for the purposes of the intended users. The choices made by management with respect to the scope of the selected disclosures are included in the chapter “What matters most” of the Annual Report 2016. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 378 Other / Assurance report of the independent auditor Introduction Strategy Page 2 Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal control as management determines is Business necessary to enable the preparation of the selected disclosures that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s reporting process. Our responsibilities Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. Risk, funding & capital We apply the “Nadere voorschriften accountantskantoren ter zake van assurance opdrachten RA” and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of these selected disclosures. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. This assurance engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance Leadership engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagement, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3000, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our assurance engagement included amongst others the following: • Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining insight into relevant social themes and Governance issues and the characteristics of the organization. • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria and its consistent application, including the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders dialogue and the reasonableness of management’s estimates. • Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting systems and processes related to the selected disclosures. • Interviewing management and relevant staff at group and business levels responsible for the preparation and consolidation of the selected disclosures. • Performing analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted for consolidation at group Annual Financial Statements level. Amsterdam, 14 March 2017 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP signed by J. Niewold Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 379 Other / Our external reporting landscape Introduction Our external reporting landscape Strategy Our Reports Purpose Frameworks applied Contents Assurance Annual Report Inform about our ▶ International Financial Reporting ▶ Strategy ▶ EY has audited the Annual Financial Business ABN AMRO financial and Standards (IFRS) ▶ Business Statements, including certain Group non-financial ▶ Dutch Civil Code Title 9, Book 2 ▶ Risk, funding disclosures in the Risk, funding & performance, ▶ Capital requirements regulations & capital capital Report, and has expressed (this report) sustainability (Basel III, CRD IV, CRR, EBA) ▶ Leadership an unqualified audit opinion performance, an ▶ Financial supervision act ▶ Governance ▶ EY has performed a limited update on our ▶ Corporate Governance Code ▶ Annual Financial assurance engagement on selected strategic priorities ▶ Dutch Banking Code Statements disclosures, which are labelled and an assessment ▶ Enhanced Disclosure Task Force <’limited assurance’> in their of how we create (EDTF) respective headings. For more Risk, funding & capital value over time ▶ International integrated reporting information see below the table1 framework (IIRC) ▶ Please refer to the independent ▶ DMA approach as described auditor’s report on financial in Global Reporting Initiative statements and the assurance (GRI G4) for disclosures on report of the independent auditor material topics on the selected disclosures Annual Report Inform about ▶ International Financial Reporting ▶ Business EY has audited the Annual Financial ABN AMRO our financial and Standards (IFRS) ▶ Risk, funding & Statements, including certain Bank non-financial ▶ Dutch Civil Code Title 9, Book 2 capital disclosures in the Risk, funding & performance ▶ Capital requirements regulation ▶ Leadership and capital Report, and has expressed Leadership to comply with (Basel III, CRD IV, CRR, EBA) Governance an unqualified audit opinion regulatory ▶ Financial Supervision Act ▶ Annual Financial requirements ▶ Corporate Governance Code Statements ▶ Dutch Banking Code Additional Inform about how Capital requirements regulation Selected Pillar The figures presented in this document Pillar 3 we manage risk (CRR, EBA) 3 information in have been neither audited nor disclosures and capital adequacy addition to the reviewed by our external auditor Governance to comply with Pillar 3 information regulatory published in the requirements Annual Report ABN AMRO Group Additional The additional Contains a balanced The figures presented on this webpage (sustainability) (sustainability) and comprehensive have been neither audited nor reporting2 reporting on the analysis of our reviewed by our external auditor Annual Financial Statements website is part of sustainability the annual reporting performance in addition to the Annual Report ABN AMRO Group 1 The Annual Report focuses on the material topics and presents results to all stakeholders. The overall framework is IIRC. The Reporting criteria for the material topics are based on the DMA structure as described in Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI G4) and own definitions. ABN AMRO reports performance on some material topics based on quantitative metrics, while other material topics are covered by our policies and governance framework as they cannot be measured quantitatively. The description of material topics and the definitions of metrics are provided in Definitions and important terms. 2 abnamro.com/en/sustainable-banking/reporting-and-publications/reporting/index.html. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 380 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Definitions of important terms Strategy ABN AMRO or the Group Basis point (bp) ABN AMRO Group N.V. incorporated on 18 December 2009 One hundredth of 1 percentage point. ‘ABN AMRO Group’ (or ‘the Company’) and its consolidated subsidiaries. Capital adequacy Business Measure of a company’s financial strength, often ABN AMRO Bank expressed in equity as a percentage of balance sheet ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (formerly known as total or – for banks – in the BIS ratio. ‘ABN AMRO II N.V.’). Certificate of deposit (CD) Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) Certificate of deposit is an unsecured short-term funding Risk, funding & capital The highest and most detailed level of credit risk calculation instrument with maturities up to one year. for determining capital adequacy levels under Basel II, based on the use of internal models to assess risk. Clearing Refers to the clearing businesses of ABN AMRO. Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) The highest and most detailed level of operational Client assets risk calculation for determining capital adequacy levels Assets, including investment funds and assets of private under Basel II, based on the use of internal models individuals and institutions, which are professionally to assess risk. managed with the aim of maximising the investment Leadership result. Client assets also include cash and securities Ageas of clients held on accounts with ABN AMRO. Refers to ageas SA/NV (formerly known as Fortis SA/NV) and ageas N.V. (formerly known as Fortis N.V.) together. Commercial paper (CP) Commercial paper is an unsecured short-term funding Basel I instrument with maturities up to one year. Governance The Basel Capital Accord is the 1988 agreement among the G10 central banks to apply common minimum capital Consortium standards to the banking industry. Refers to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc (‘RBS Group’), Ageas and Banco Santander S.A. Basel II (‘Santander’), which jointly acquired ABN AMRO Holding The Basel II Framework offers a new set of standards for on 17 October 2007 through RFS Holdings B.V. Annual Financial Statements establishing minimum capital requirements for banks. It was (‘RFS Holdings’). On 3 October 2008 the State prepared by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. of the Netherlands became the successor of Ageas. Basel III Core Equity Tier 1 ratio The third set of Basel accords, which was developed The bank’s core capital, excluding preference shares, in response to the financial crisis of the late 2000’s. expressed as a percentage of total risk exposure amount. The Basel III standards include higher and better-quality capital, better risk coverage and the introduction of a maximum leverage ratio Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 381 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Cost of risk Defaulted exposures The cost of risk is defined as annualised impairment Exposures for which there are indicators that a counterparty Strategy charges on loans and other receivables customers for may not be able to meet its contractual obligations and/ the period divided by the average loans and receivables or when an exposure is more than 90 days past due. customers on basis gross carrying amount and excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. Derivatives Financial instruments whose value is derived from the Country risk price of one or several underlying assets (e.g. currencies, Business Country risk is part of credit risk and is defined as the risk securities, indices). of losses due to country-specific events or circumstances (political, social, economic) relevant for credit exposures Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) that are cross-border in nature. A family of benchmarks, performed by Robeco SAM, for investors who believe sustainable business practices Coverage ratio may lead to long-term shareholder value. Risk, funding & capital The coverage ratio shows to which extent the impaired exposures are covered by impairment allowances for Duration of equity identified credit risk. Duration of equity indicates the sensitivity of the market value of equity to a 1% parallel change in the yield curve. Credit equivalent The targeted interest risk profile results in a limit of the Sum of the costs of replacement transactions (when duration of equity between 0 and 7 years. counterparties fail to fulfil their obligations) and the potential future credit risk, reflected in a mark-up Earnings per share percentage on the principal of the contract. The mark-up Profit for the period excluding coupons attributable to AT1 Leadership percentage depends on the nature and remaining term capital securities (net of tax) and results attributable to of the contract. non-controlling interests divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. Covered bonds Covered bonds (CB) are secured long-term funding Economic capital instruments. This type of bond differs from a standard An estimate of the amount of capital that the bank should Governance bond by recourse to a pool of assets. In a default event, possess in order to be able to sustain larger-than-expected the bondholder has recourse to the issuer and this pool losses with a given level of certainty. of assets. Economic profit Credit rating Net profit after tax less risk-adjusted cost of capital. Assessment of a credit rating agency expressed in Annual Financial Statements a combination of letters and/or figures indicating the Economic value creditworthiness of a country, company or institution. The value of future economic profits discounted to the present. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss that occurs Employee Engagement if a client or counterparty fails to meet the terms A business management concept that describes the level of a contract or otherwise fails to perform as agreed. of enthusiasm and dedication a worker feels toward his/ her job. Credit valuation adjustments Market value adjustments for counterparty credit risk. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 382 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Encumbered assets Impaired exposures Assets that were pledged or subject to an arrangement, Exposures for which not all contractual cash flows are Strategy either explicitly or implicitly, in any way to secure, expected and/or exposures more than 90 days past due collateralise or credit enhance a transaction. for which impairments are determined on a portfolio basis. ESE/ESG criteria Impaired ratio ESG/ESE criteria are criteria that are used in sustainability The impaired ratio shows which fraction of the gross assessments to assess ethical, social, environmental ­ carrying amount of a financial asset category consists Business and/or governance risks of clients, their conduct or entities of impaired exposures. they invest in. Interest rate mismatch Exposure at Default (EAD) Interest rate mismatch is the difference in interest EAD models estimate the expected exposure at the time maturity between funds lent and funds borrowed. of a counterparty default. Risk, funding & capital International Financial Reporting Standards Fortis Bank Nederland (FBN) (IFRS) The legal entity Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V., previously IFRS, formerly known as International Accounting named Fortis Bank Nederland (Holding) N.V., which Standards, are drawn up and recommended by the merged with ABN AMRO Bank Standalone pursuant International Accounting Standards Board. The European to the Legal Merger. Union requires that IFRS be used by all exchange-listed companies in the EU starting from the financial year 2005. Full time equivalent (FTE) The ratio of the total number of paid hours during a period Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) Leadership by the number of working hours in that period. The LCR is intended to promote resilience to potential liquidity disruptions over a thirty-day horizon. The LCR Global sustainability risk index (GSRI) requires banks to hold sufficient highly-liquid assets A tool that is used to assess credit applications on equal to or greater than the net cash outflow during environmental, social and ethical (ESE) aspects. a thirty-day period. Governance Green bond Loan impairment allowance A product that enables investors to invest in mortgages Balance sheet allowance held against non-performing loans. of highly energy-efficient homes, loans for solar panels on existing homes and sustainable commercial property. Market risk (banking book) Market risk in the banking book, mainly interest rate risk, ​Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is the risk of yield curve development that is unfavourable Annual Financial Statements A reporting framework that provides metrics and methods for the bank. Other market risks are limited in the banking for measuring and reporting sustainability-related impacts book either through hedging (foreign rate exchange risk) and performance. or in general (other market risk types). Hedge Market risk (trading book) Protecting a financial position by going either long or short, Market risk in the trading book is the risk of loss resulting often using derivatives. from unfavourable market price movements which can arise from trading or holding positions in financial instruments in the trading book. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 383 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Materiality Non-performing loans Materiality is the threshold at which topics become Exposures for which there are indicators that a Strategy sufficiently important to be reported. Material topics are counterparty may not be able to meet its contractual those that may reasonably be considered important for obligations and/or when an exposure is more than 90 days reflecting the organisation’s economic, environmental and past due. social impacts, or influencing the decisions of stakeholders, and, therefore, potentially merit inclusion in a report. OECD Guidelines The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises provide Medium-term notes (MTN) Business non-binding principles and standards for responsible Medium-term notes are unsecured funding instruments business conduct in a global context. with maturities up to ten years issued in several currencies. Operational risk Net Promoter Score (NPS) Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from This metric shows the extent to which customers would inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems Risk, funding & capital recommend ABN AMRO to others. The customer is or from external events. regarded as a ‘promoter’ (score of 9 or 10), as ‘passively satisfied’ (score of 7 or 8) or as a ‘detractor’ (score of 0 Options (shares and currencies) to 6). The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage Contractual right to buy (call option) or sell (put option) of ‘detractors’ from the percentage of ‘promoters’. a specified amount of underlying shares or currency at a The score is expressed as an absolute number between fixed price during a specified period or on a specified date. -100 and +100. Past due exposure Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) A financial asset is past due if a counterparty has failed Leadership The objective of the NSFR is to promote resilience over to make a payment when contractually due, if it has a longer time horizon by creating additional incentives exceeded an advised limit or if it has been advised to fund activities with more stable sources of funding of a limit lower than its current outstanding. on an ongoing basis. Past due ratio NII-at-Risk The past due ratio shows which fraction of the gross Governance The NII-at-Risk metric indicates the change in net interest carrying amount of a financial asset category is past due income during the coming 12 months, comparing the NII but not impaired. calculated using a constant yield curve with the NII calculated using a yield curve that is gradually shifted to a total of Permanent modification 200 basis points. The net interest income is negatively Terms and conditions of a contract such as interest, impacted when rates rise. principal, repayment terms, tenor or financial covenants Annual Financial Statements are changed permanently. NLFI Stichting administratiekantoor beheer financiële Preference share instellingen (NL Financial Investments (foundation)). Share that receives a fixed rate of dividend prior to On 29 September 2011 the Dutch State transferred its ordinary shares. shares in ABN AMRO Group N.V. and in ABN AMRO Preferred Investments B.V. to NLFI. NLFI was set up as a means to avoid potential conflicting responsibilities that the Minister of Finance might otherwise face, as a shareholder and as a regulator, and to avoid political Other influence being exerted. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 384 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Qualifying revolving exposures Saving certificates Qualifying revolving exposures are revolving, unsecured, Saving certificates are non-exchange traded instruments Strategy and uncommitted exposures to private individuals that with an annual coupon payment and have the same meet additional criteria specified in the CRD. These characteristics as bonds. outstanding balances are permitted to fluctuate based on their decisions to borrow and repay, up to a limit Savings mortgages established by the bank. Savings mortgages are mortgages with a separate savings account whereby the balance of savings is used for RARORAC Business redemption of the principal at maturity. A combination of two other measures: risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC) and return on risk-adjusted Securities financing transaction (also referred capital (RORAC). to as ‘professional securities transaction’) A transaction whereby securities are temporarily Refinancing transferred from a lender to a borrower, with the Risk, funding & capital A contract is considered to be refinanced when the commitment to re-deliver the securities. objective of the new contract is to enable the (partly) repayment of another existing contract of which the Securitisation counterparty is unable to meet the existing obligations. Restructuring credits in the form of marketable securities. Regulatory capital adequacy Social impact bond Measure of a bank’s financial strength, often expressed A contract with the public sector or governing authority, in risk-bearing capital as a percentage of total risk whereby it pays for better social outcomes in certain areas exposure amount. and passes on part of the savings achieved to investors. Leadership Repurchase agreement (Repo) Social impact fund The sale of securities together with an agreement Investing that aims to generate specific beneficial social for the seller to buy back the securities at a later date. or environmental effects in addition to financial gain. Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) Standardised Approach (Basel II) Governance Residential mortgage backed securities are secured The standardised approach for credit risk measures long-term funding instruments. A pool of underlying credit risk in a standardised manner, supported by external assets, in this case own-originated residential mortgages, credit assessments. provides the cash flows to bondholders. Stress testing Return on equity (ROE) Method of testing the stability of a system or entity Annual Financial Statements Annualised net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders when exposed to exceptional conditions. of the parent company divided by average shareholders’ equity. Sustainable client assets Sustainable client assets are assets that ABN AMRO Risk-weighted assets (RWA) invests for its clients in investment funds, products and Total assets and off-balance sheet items calculated on the securities that explicitly base their investment approach basis of the risks relating to the various balance sheet items. and decisions on sustainable criteria. These investments explicitly factor in the social and environmental effects Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) of investments. The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V., formerly known as Other ABN AMRO Bank N.V. prior to the Legal Demerger. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 385 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Temporary modification UN Global Compact Terms and conditions of a contract such as interest, ​The United Nations Global Compact is a United Nations Strategy principal, repayment terms, tenor or financial covenants initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt are changed temporarily. sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. Three lines of defence ABN AMRO’s approach to risk management. The threeUniform Counterparty Rating (UCR) lines-of-defence principle consists of a clear division The UCR is an obligor rating and refers to the probability of Business of activities and responsibilities in risk management default by an obligor, i.e. the likelihood that a counterparty at different levels in the bank and at different stages fails to pay interest and/or principal and/or other financial in the lifecycle of risk exposures. obligations to the bank. Tier 1 ratio Value-at-Risk banking book Tier 1 capital, the sum of CET1 capital and AT1 capital, Value-at-Risk banking book (VaR banking book) is used as Risk, funding & capital of the bank expressed as a percentage of total ­ a statistical measure for assessing interest risk exposure. risk-weighted assets. It estimates potential losses and is defined as the predicted maximum loss that might be caused by changes in risk Trust Monitor AFM/NvB factors under normal circumstances, over a specified period A survey conducted by market research institute GfK on of time, and at a specified level of statistical confidence. how Dutch people think about banks in general, their own A VaR for changes in the interest rate for the banking book bank and how they experience various aspects of services is calculated at a 99% confidence level and a two-month provided by banks. holding period. Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 386 Other / Abbreviations Introduction Abbreviations AACB ABN AMRO Clearing Bank ECT (ABN AMRO’s) Energy, Commodities Strategy AFM Autoriteit Financiële Markten (Netherlands & Transportation Authority for the Financial Markets) EDTF Enhanced Disclosure Task Force AFS Annual Financial Statements EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation AIRB Advanced Internal Ratings Based (Approach) EPS Earnings per share Business ALCO (ABN AMRO’s) Asset & Liability Committee ESE Environmental, Social and Ethical ALM Asset & Liability Management ESG Environmental, Social and Governance AMA Advanced Measurement Approach EU European Union BIS Bank for International Settlements EUR Euro BLMIS Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities EVCA European Private Equity and Venture bp(s) Basis point(s) Capitalist Association Risk, funding & capital BREEAM Building Research Establishment FATCA Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act Environmental Assessment Methodology FBN Fortis Bank Nederland BRRD Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive FCCM Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method CAO Collectieve Arbeidsovereenkomst (collective Fed Federal Reserve labour agreement) FR&R (ABN AMRO’s) Financial Restructuring CBS Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek & Recovery (Statistics Netherlands) FTE Full-Time Equivalent CD Certificate of Deposit (a measurement of number of staff) CDO Collateralised Debt Obligation FVA Funding Value Adjustment Leadership CDS Credit Default Swap FX Foreign exchange CEBS Committee of European Banking Supervisors GBP British pound CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 GDP Gross Domestic Product CHF Swiss Franc GfK Gesellschaft für Konsumforschung (Society CP Commercial Paper for Consumer Research) CRD (the EU’s) Capital Requirements Directive GSRI Global Sustainability Risk Index Tool Governance CRE Commercial Real Estate GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark CRR Capital Requirements Regulation GRI Global Reporting Initiative CVA Credit Value Adjustment HR Human Resources DGS Deposit Guarantee Scheme IAS International Accounting Standards DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index IASB International Accounting Standards Board DNB De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. IBNI Incurred But Not Identified Annual Financial Statements (Dutch Central Bank) ICS International Card Services DSTA Dutch State Treasury Agency ICB Industry Classification Benchmark DTA Deferred Tax Asset ID&JG (ABN AMRO’s) International Diamond DTL Deferred Tax Liability & Jewellery Group DVA Debit Value Adjustment IFRIC IFRS Interpretations Committee EAD Exposure At Default IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards EBA European Banking Authority IMA Internal Models Approach EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, INSEAD Institut Européen d’Administration Depreciation and Amortisation des Affaires (European Institute EC European Commission of Business Administration) Other ECB European Central Bank IPO Initial Public Offering ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 387 Other / Abbreviations Introduction IRB Internal Ratings-Based (Approach) PR&I People, Regulations & Identity KPI Key Performance Indicator RARORAC Risk-Adjusted Return On Strategy LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio Risk-Adjusted Capital LGD Loss Given Default RBS The Royal Bank of Scotland plc LtD Loan-to-Deposit (ratio) REA Risk exposure amount LtMV Loan-to-Market-Value RMBS Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities MCI Maas Capital Investment B.V. ROE Return on Equity MiFID (the EU’s) Markets in Financial Instruments RWA Risk-Weighted Assets Business Directive SA Standardised Approach MiFIR (the EU’s) Markets in Financial Instruments SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation SGD Singapore dollar MtM Mark-to-Market SMEs Small and Medium-sized Enterprises MTN Medium-term notes SMOS Sustainability Management Operating System NHG Nationale Hypotheek Garantie SPE Special Purpose Entity Risk, funding & capital (Dutch State-guaranteed mortgages) SRM Single Resolution Mechanism NII Net Interest Income SSM Single Supervisory Mechanism NLFI NL Financial Investments (foundation) TLTRO Targeted Long Term Refinancing Operations NPS Net Promoter Score TOPS (ABN AMRO’s) Technology, Operations NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio & Property Services OCI Other Comprehensive Income UCR Uniform Counterparty Rating OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation UNGP United Nations Guiding Principles and Development USD US dollar OOE One Obligor Exposure VaR Value-at-Risk Leadership OTC Over-The-Counter WSW Waarborgfonds Sociale Woningbouw PD Probability of Default Governance Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 388 Other / Cautionary statements Introduction Cautionary statements The Group has included in this Annual Report, and from ÅÅ Macroeconomic and geopolitical risks; Strategy time to time may make certain statements in its public ÅÅ Reductions in ABN AMRO’s credit ratings; filings, press releases or other public statements that ÅÅ Actions taken by the EC, governments and may constitute “forward-looking statements” within their agencies to support individual banks the meaning of the safe-harbour provisions of the United and the banking system; Business States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. ÅÅ Monetary and interest rate policies of the ECB This includes, without limitation, such statements and G20 central banks; that include the words “expect”, “estimate”, “project”, ÅÅ Inflation or deflation; “anticipate”, “should”, “intend”, “plan”, “aim”, “desire”, ÅÅ Unanticipated turbulence in interest rates, “strive”, probability”, “risk”, “Value at Risk” (“VaR”), foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices “target”, “goal”, “objective”, “will”, “endeavour”, “outlook”, and equity prices; Risk, funding & capital “optimistic”, “prospects” and similar expressions or ÅÅ Liquidity risks and related market risk losses; variations on such expressions. In particular, this document ÅÅ Potential losses associated with an increase in the includes forward-looking statements relating, but not level of substandard loans or non-performance by limited, to ABN AMRO’s potential exposures to various counterparties to other types of financial instruments, types of operational, credit and market risk, such as including systemic risk; counterparty risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate ÅÅ Changes in Dutch and foreign laws, regulations, risk and commodity and equity price risk. Such statements policies and taxes; are subject to risks and uncertainties. These forwardÅÅ Changes in competition and pricing environments; looking statements are not historical facts and represent ÅÅ Inability to hedge certain risks economically; Leadership only ABN AMRO’s beliefs regarding future events, many ÅÅ Adequacy of loss reserves and impairment allowances; of which by their nature are inherently uncertain and ÅÅ Technological changes; beyond the bank’s control. ÅÅ Changes in consumer spending, investment and saving habits; Other factors that could cause actual results to differ ÅÅ Effective capital and liquidity management; materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking ÅÅ The success of ABN AMRO in managing the risks Governance statements contained in this document include, but are involved in the foregoing. not limited to: ÅÅ The extent and nature of future developments and The forward-looking statements made in this Annual continued volatility in the credit and financial markets Report are only applicable as from the date of publication and their impact on the financial industry in general of this document. ABN AMRO does not intend to publicly and ABN AMRO in particular; update or revise these forward-looking statements to Annual Financial Statements ÅÅ The effect on ABN AMRO’s capital of write-downs reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report, in respect of credit and other risk exposures; and ABN AMRO does not assume any responsibility to ÅÅ Risks relating to ABN AMRO’s stock-exchange listing; do so. The reader should, however, take into account ÅÅ Risks related to ABN AMRO’s corporate transactions any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that (e.g. merger, separation and integration process); ABN AMRO may make in ABN AMRO’s interim reports. ÅÅ General economic, social and political conditions in the Netherlands and in other countries in which ABN AMRO has significant business activities, investments or other exposures, including the impact of recessionary economic conditions on ABN AMRO’s Other performance, liquidity and financial position; ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 389 Other / Enquiries Introduction Enquiries Strategy ABN AMRO Investor Relations Business Mailing address investorrelations@nl.abnamro.com P.O. Box 283 +31 20 6282 282 1000 EA Amsterdam The Netherlands ABN AMRO Press Office pressrelations@nl.abnamro.com Internet Risk, funding & capital +31 20 6288 900 abnamro.com (corporate website in English) abnamro.nl (client website in Dutch) ABN AMRO Group N.V. abnamro.nl/en (client website in English) Gustav Mahlerlaan 10 abnamro.com/corporatereporting 1082 PP Amsterdam The Netherlands Information on our websites does not form part of this Annual Report, unless expressly stated otherwise. Leadership Acknowledgements General coordination Governance Finance and Communications & Sustainability departments Photography Lex van Lieshout (Managing Board, Supervisory Board and Annemieke Roobeek) Olivier Middendorp (Kees van Dijkhuizen, Johan van Hall, Wietze Reehoorn, Olga Zoutendijk, Steven ten Have, Arjen Dorland, Frederieke Leeflang, Jurgen Stegmann and Tjalling Tiemstra) Annual Financial Statements Concepting and layout DartGroup, Amsterdam Production and lithography Sumis Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Introduction Strategy Business Risk, funding & capital Leadership Governance Annual Financial Statements Other 390 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2016 Other / Enquiries abnamro.nl/corporatereporting/2016
