2 0 1 7 United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) June 2016 – August 2017 Company Name CESVA instruments, s.l.u. Address C/ Maracaibo, 6 08030 Barcelona Country Spain Contact name Joan Casamajó Monclús Contact Position General Manager Contact phone no. (+34) 934 335 240 Date 7th August 2017 Membership date 9th June 2008 Number of employees 23 Sector Instruments for acoustics UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 3 CONTENT COMPANY DESCRIPTION ........................................................................ 5 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT.............................. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY ...................................... 8 HUMAN RIGHTS ........................................................................................ 9 Policy and Processes ............................................................................. 9 Results.................................................................................................... 9 LABOUR................................................................................................... 10 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 10 Results.................................................................................................. 10 ENVIRONMENT ....................................................................................... 12 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 12 Results.................................................................................................. 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION ................................................................................ 20 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 20 Results.................................................................................................. 20 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 4 COMPANY DESCRIPTION CESVA is company specialized in the design and manufacture of equipment for noise control and measurement, it was founded in 1969 in Barcelona and has since been working to offer acoustic solutions to end problems related to noise and vibration and help protect the environment and improve the quality of people’s life. Our mission is to help our customers to measure and control both noise & vibration. We do this by designing and manufacturing systems that are extremely easy to use, but which do not compromise on power & functionality. Our activities are centered mainly on the development and manufacture of precision microphones and acoustic instruments and software applications for all of them, which makes them more powerful and competitive in the national and international market. CESVA is certified according to the requirements of ISO 9001:2008 for the design, manufacture, distribution and sale of instruments for the measurement and control of noise The concept of quality is fundamental in our business philosophy, since one of our priorities is its continuous search and what creates added value for our customers. We want the future to sound great. We hope to achieve this by offering quality instruments to sound professionals, to enable them to perform measurement & assessment of noise & vibration in the most efficient way possible. We want to help them achieve this whilst meeting & surpassing the technical levels required by the regulations of wherever they are used. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 5 We focus on research and development to create new products, improve quality and maintain competitiveness in the market. Currently CESVA has its own R & D that absorbs 70% of company resources. We like to listen and identify the needs of our customers to create a relationship of mutual trust. We design and manufacture equipment that meet their needs and comply with the requirements of the latest standard in the market. Our ongoing commitment to research and development has enabled us to obtain several patents of acoustic instrumentation and being pioneer in the design of equipment with single measurement range and with simultaneous measurement of all functions, using Bluetooth on sound insulation measures or being the first company in Spain to obtain the pattern approval of a sound level meter. We sit on several committees, both Spanish and International, for the creation and revision of regulations and standards, allowing us to have a global and updated vision of the latest industry requirements. This global reach, together with a foresighted commercial strategy, has led to our range of products becoming a point of reference in the field of precision instrumentation for sound level measurement. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 6 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that, once again, CESVA reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. To this end and in accordance with the commitment made in June 2008 by signing the Global Compact, we present Communication On Progress COP of CESVA instruments, s.l.u for the period June 2016August 2017. In this yearly progress Communication, we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles to our business strategy, culture and daily operations. One more year, our efforts have been focused on job creation, economic value and social contribution on CSR, highlighting our active policy of sustainable development and respect for human rights, quality of working conditions within our company and businesses where we operate, the rejection of any act of corruption and environmental protection, especially in the field more closely linked to our business area: noise pollution. We have also devoted much of our efforts to disseminating and transmitting the philosophy of smart cities, so that the future of many cities is socially, environmentally and economically more sustainable. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders through our main communication channels. Joan Casamajó Monclús General Manager of CESVA instruments s.l.u. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY # PRINCIPLE IMPLEMENTED PROGRESS 1 SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT 2 COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment ABUSES. UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF 3 ASSOCIATION AND THE YES We continue with full commitment COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF ALL 4 FORMS OF FORCED AND YES We continue with full commitment COMPULSORY LABOUR. 5 UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR YES We continue with full commitment UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF We have hired a new employee to the 6 DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. YES company according to criteria of nondiscrimination and of closeness and affinity with current workers. SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY We have developed policies to 7 APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL YES measure and control energy CHALLENGES. consumption. UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO 8 PROMOTE GREATER YES We have participated in several Noise Awareness activities. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT We have pushed our noise monitoring AND DIFFUSION OF solution for Smart Cities and 9 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. YES participated in committees for its standardization. We have also completed our solution with the PS120 solar panel. WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN 10 ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING YES We continue with full commitment EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 8 HUMAN RIGHTS The first two principles cover the area of Human Rights: Businesses HUMAN RIGHTS should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1: Businesses should human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights support and respect abuses. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Policy and Processes In order to ensure that CESVA is not complicit in human rights abuses, 2: make sure that they we have adopted a policy of not sourcing materials from countries with are not complicit in a systematically poor human rights record. human rights abuses. All our customers, suppliers and employees have been informed of the policies of corporate social responsibility. Results In 2017 CESVA did not import goods from, nor do business with any companies in countries with a systematically poor human rights record. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 9 LABOUR LABOUR The second area covered by principles 3 to 6 is that of Labour Rights: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3: Businesses should recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all uphold the freedom of forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child association and the labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment effective recognition of and occupation. the right to collective bargaining; 4: The elimination of all Policy and Processes forms of forced and compulsory labour; CESVA has a policy of recruitment based strictly on qualification and ability. 5: The effective abolition of child Factors such as sex, religion or sexual orientation play no part in the labour; and recruitment process. In addition, in line with the policy described in reference to Human 6: The elimination of Rights, we ensure that our suppliers do not use child labour in their discrimination in production processes. respect of employment and occupation. We reject all forms of intolerance, bullying or discrimination. We consider any of these manifestations are disrespectful and unacceptable practice in our company. The transparency and honesty govern our every action in this area. Training is also an integral part of our company culture. Our workers are aware of the need to constantly improve their knowledge and skills. Results In 2017 CESVA did not import parts from companies that use child labour in their production processes. Employees and Management have taken training courses to improve their knowledge and skills. All CESVA employees are paid according to their qualifications and the work that they carry out, independent of factors such as sex or religion, etc. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 10 As a result of a great effort and counter to economic indicators in Spain, we have been able to incorporate a new worker into the human team that forms our company, concretely, into the R+D+i department, in the area of acoustics and customer service. The selection process has been conducted according to criteria of non-discrimination and of closeness and affinity with current workers. Despite this incorporation, the number of workers has been reduced because two workers left the company. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 11 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 to 9 pertain to the area of Environmental Protection: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to 7: Businesses are environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater asked to support a environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and precautionary diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. approach to environmental At CESVA we assume respect for the environment as a fundamental challenges; factor in the performance of our activities, especially in the field more closely linked to our business: noise pollution. 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater We operate responsibly in order to respond to the needs of our environmental responsibility; and customers, always trying to minimize negative environmental impacts that may arise from it. 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Policy and Processes environmentally At CESVA we keep with the policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” in the friendly technologies. factory. We continue being active members of ECOTIC ECOTIC Foundation is a non-profit private organization that works towards environmental protection and sustainable development through the awareness and training of manufacturers, distributors and users of electrical and electronic devices. ECOTIC Foundation manages the WEEE (collection and recycling of electrical and electronic devices at the end of their lifespan) of its affiliated enterprises through its Integrated Management System (IMS). The mission of ECOTIC Foundation is not only to conveniently recycle the wastes that are generated by its affiliates after the use of these devices, but also to do it in the most efficient and economically feasible way, so that the system is environmentally and economically sustainable to guarantee its durability. We are equally committed to our support for environmental protection, especially in the field most closely related to our business: noise pollution. We have also devoted much of our efforts to disseminating and transmitting the philosophy of smart cities, so that the future of UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 12 many cities is socially, environmentally and economically more sustainable. Results The results achieved applying the 3R policies are positive. CESVA is listed in the National Register of Industrial Establishments producing Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). And we keep on our policy of buying lead-free electronic components. We continue to make the environmental management of batteries with ECOPILAS Foundation which is recorded in the register of foundations of the Spanish Ministry of Environment We have expanded the area of waste separation: electronic components and circuits, batteries, toner and printers, sheet metal and iron, paper and cardboard and plastics and expanded polystyrene (porexpan). Waste separation zone UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 13 We continue replacing the fluorescent tubes with LED light tubes, thus improving our energy efficiency in terms of electric energy consumption. We also continue carrying out a summer / winter maintenance of the airconditioning and heating equipment so that it has a more optimal performance and reduce the electric energy consumption in air conditioning. We have participated in the 1st week without noise SSS! Held in Catalonia from 24th to 30th April. All public and private initiatives that were developed around the International Noise Awareness Day, celebrated every last Wednesday of April, were grouped under the motto 'Silence please'. Promotional banner of the 1st week without noise Dissemination activities were carried out to raise awareness of noise pollution problems, as well as give information on the control and management tools to reduce it with CESVA sound level meters and acoustic limiters in cities such as Mataró, Sabadell, Terrassa, Lleida, ... UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 14 Awareness sessions in Mataró, Sabadell, Terrassa and Lleida with CESVA sound level meters and limiters CESVA, on the occasion of this event and during 2017, offered to the municipalities the possibility of performing a pilot test of continuous noise monitoring. The test consisted of a free temporary assignment of a TA120 noise monitoring sensor and a subscription to the NoisePlatform online platform for real-time visualization, live and dynamic analysis, and download of sound levels measured. Pilot test in Sabadell with TA120 and NoisePlatform running with Sentilo subscription UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 15 Pilot test in Sant Cugat with TA120 and NoisePlatform CESVA has also given technological support to the environmental awareness project LÍQUENS with TA120 sensors. The heart of LIQUENS is its environmental panel from which it interacts with citizens and allows real-time visualization of the noise levels and air pollution present in its surroundings measured through highly reliable sensors. LIQUENS panel and the noise sensor CESVA TA120 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 16 On 8th and 9th June 2017, CESVA participated as a speaker at the conference organized by the group of Spanish UNESCO World Heritage Cities on smart cities and smart heritage; A framework of exchange of experiences that counted on more than 50 technicians and specialists coming from the 15 cities that form the group, among them Cordova, Segovia, Tarragona, Santiago de Compostela, Baeza and Úbeda and representatives of other city councils like Seville, Málaga or San Sebastian. CESVA participated with the presentation Smart noise management showing a great variety of real successful projects in which CESVA noise monitoring technology is being used to sensorise the noise vector: tracking action plans in acoustically saturated areas, control of works and temporary works with schedule exemption, assessment of the impact of infrastructures and efficiency of acoustic barriers, study and preservation of quiet areas and monitoring of leisure activities and concerts complemented with the use of acoustic limiters. Albert López, CESVA product engineer, in the speaker table with the TA120 noise sensor UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 17 TA120 NOISE SENSOR: Garrotxa Natural Park CESVA has completed its noise monitoring solution with the exclusive design of a solar panel for powering the TA120 noise sensor. This makes possible to carry out monitoring projects in places without electricity supply and makes more sustainable the incorporation of noise sensors in cities committed to energy efficiency. PS120: solar panel for TA120 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 18 CESVA remains an active part of the working group GT7.2 “Noise Pollution control systems” in the SC4 / CTN 178 Smart Cities. Energy and Environment of AENOR (It is legally responsible for the development and dissemination of technical standards in Spain). The objective of this group is to establish the guidelines to standardize the actions conducted by smart cities for the diagnosis, monitoring and control of noise pollution and environmental awareness and education. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION The tenth principle deals with the problem of Corruption, and states ANTI-CORRUPTION simply that: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Processes CESVA has always adhered to this principle. It may be that there are companies who resort to bribery to win contracts, but CESVA has never entertained the idea that this could, under any circumstances, be an acceptable business practice, even when it has cost us contracts or tenders. Results CESVA does not, and never has resorted to bribery or extortion. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2017 | page 20 Maracaibo, 6  08030 Barcelona (Spain) www.cesva.com
