2016 INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Contents CONTENTS PAGE 03 05 06 MAIN ACCOMPLISHMENTS LETTER FROM ABOUT THIS IN 2016 THE CHAIRMAN REPORT PAGE 07 11 13 16 18 trust, commiTMENT international, credibility to suStaINAble independent and THE VALUE OF and client EThICs and development innovative REPUTATION satisfaction GOvernance PAGE 21 28 34 46 50 Intellectual Social AND Capital AND RELATIONSHIP FINANCIal Human Capital InnovaTión CAPITAL natural Capital Capital PAGE 52 53 56 65 guiding INDEX OF 2016 ASSURANCE suppliers principLEs GRI STANDARDS REPORT -2Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Main accomplishments in 2016 MAIN ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN 2016 Garrigues is an innovative, international and independent law firm. With offices in 13 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia and the Americas, the firm advises clients in the main economic arenas of the global marketplace, where it has always been noted for its innovative approach. This is what makes Garrigues a market leader in Spain and one of the major law firms in Europe. Here is a summary of the firm’s activities in 2016, the 75th anniversary of its foundation: 3,188 32 €349.4 ClientS ofFicES MillION IN Who have been with us on an ongoing basis for 5 years The Santiago de Chile office opened in 2016. REVENUES 3.1% annual growth 2,015 53% /47% 295 PEOPLE GENDER SPLIT PARTNERS 24 different nationalities and 283 new hires during the year (WOMEN/ MEN) 12 internal promotions and 14 new hires New hires in 2016: 59% / 41% 58 BENEFICIARIES 304 PUBLICATIONS  10% PAPER CONSUMPTION Pro bono program 161 alerts, 102 newsletters, With respect to 2015 41 commentaries -3Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Main accomplishments in 2016 OUR STRATEGY ADDED VALUE FOR CLIENTS LEADERSHIP IN LATIN AMERICA INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY ATTRACTION AND RETENTION OF THE BEST TALENT AmErica BOGOTÁ LIMA MEXICO CITY NEW YORK SANTIAGO DE CHILE SÃO PAULO AFRICA CASABLANCA ASIA BEIJING SHANGHAI EUROPE BRUSSELS LISBON LONDON OPORTO -WARSAW spaIN spaIN A CORUÑA ALICANTE BARCELONABILBAO LAS PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA MADRID MÁLAGA MURCIA OVIEDO PALMA PAMPLONA SAN SEBASTIÁN SANTA CRUZ DE TENERIFE SEVILLE VALENCIA VALLADOLID VIGO ZARAGOZA CLIENT SERVICE AREAS OF EXPERTISE INDUSTRIES DESKS Corporate Law and Commercial Contracts Automotive Asia-Pacific Administrative Law Financial Institutions French Banking and Finance Private Equity German Accounting Law Family Business Indian Securities Market Law Energy Italian E.U. and Antitrust Life Sciences & Healthcare US Tax Corporate Governance & Real Estate Corporate Social Responsibility Labor and Employment Law Technology & Outsourcing Planning and Zoning Real Estate Mergers and Acquisitions Insurance Human Capital Services Smart Cities Litigation and Arbitration Sports & Entertainment Environmental Telecommunications & Media Intellectual Property Transport & Shipping Restructuring and Insolvency Tourism & Hotels Fashion Law -4Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Letter from the chairman The incorporation of new technologies in all of our activities and our determination to remain at the cutting edge in the services we provide to clients was another fundamental goal in 2016. We are also satisfied with what we have accomplished, particularly because we have done so with the enthusiasm and participation of our professionals. During the year, we also devoted time to enhancing relations with all of our stakeholders, in order to understand their goals and make them compatible. We know that, without them, Garrigues could not continue to fulfill its function. Our strategy in 2017 will be centered on four different areas: fernando Vives • Clients: we are determined to ensure our services EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN offer them increasing added value. • Latin American practice: we aim to consolidate our leading position in Latin America. • Innovation and technology: we will continue with our We are pleased to present Garrigues’ 2016 Integrated strategy of incorporating technology into all of our Report, which provides information on the economic, processes as a key means of improving efficiency social and environmental aspects of the firm’s activities. I and client service. think it accurately represents who we are. • Our people: their professional development and training are vital to us. We have to continue to We celebrated our 75th anniversary in 2016 and it attract and retain the best talent. has been an important year for Garrigues. We have accomplished our goals of consolidating our presence We invite you to read this Integrated Report, which will abroad, in line with our business model of opening undoubtedly help you to get to know us better. We would own offices, and of attracting and integrating the best also ask you to continue sending us your suggestions and professionals and best firms in each country in which we ideas to help us move forward. are present. The accomplishment of these ambitious goals and our A total of 283 people joined the firm during the year. ongoing contribution to sustainable development in Our team now numbers more than 2,000 people of the different regions in which we operate would not 24 nationalities, and we feel very proud to have been be possible without the help and support of all of our able to attract so much talent and combine the forces stakeholders. of professionals from such diverse backgrounds. We work out of 32 offices in 13 countries under a single Many thanks for your trust. brand: Garrigues. To us, this means the same culture of value creation for clients, the same goals and a single Fernando Vives professional vision. Executive Chairman -5Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report About this Report about this report Access the microsite This is the eleventh consecutive year that Garrigues has This Report has been prepared and verified in published an Integrated Report (known up to three years accordance with the core option of the GRI Standards by ago as the Corporate Social Responsibility Report). This an independent external entity. Report corresponds to the Garrigues 2016 fiscal year (January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016). For more information, see the assurance letter on page 65 of this Report. In 2016, we have once again taken into account the guidelines and recommendations of the integrated For more information on Garrigues’ activities: reporting framework published by the International www.garrigues.com Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) in December 2013, adapting them to the degree of advancement of the issue Please address any queries to: in question and to the activity and reality of Garrigues. In comunicaciones@garrigues.com particular, pages 21-51 provide detailed information on Contact Us section of www.garrigues.com our capital: human, intellectual, social and relationship, natural and financial. We have also taken the October 2016 GRI Standards into account for the first time. The relevant standard is identified in each section of the Report, using the icons indicated below. The Index of GRI Standards on pages Foundation General disclosures 56-64 includes links and further details. Garrigues adhered to the United Nations Global Compact in 2002. This Report constitutes our Communication on Progress as regards the implementation of the 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Management Economic Garrigues has assessed and defined its contribution to the Approach Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) approved by the United Nations. This series of 17 goals and 169 targets aims to solve the social, economic and environmental problems afflicting the world and covers the period 2016-2030. Pages 7-10 sets out our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, and for greater clarity, pages 56-59 of the Environmental Social Index of GRI Standards list the GRI disclosures alongside each of the principles of the Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. -6Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Commitment to sustainable development Management Approach COMMITment TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Garrigues is a responsible law firm that is Garrigues’ contribution to the committed to global social, environmental Sustainable Development Goals and governance challenges HIGH • We strive to provide the best service to our clients all over the world, placing particular emphasis on professional ethics and innovation. • We consider all of our people to be our principal asset. • We are closely committed to society at large. MODERATE As an international law firm, we have pledged to pursue our activities while at the same time advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Accordingly, we seek to promote the conservation and improvement of economic, social and environmental assets. Our work is guided by the United Nations Global Compact, to which Garrigues signed up in 2002. Garrigues has defined four levels of contribution to the SDGs in light of the nature of its activity and we have LOW prioritized our efforts in this area on promoting the Rule of Law (Goal 16) and Partnerships (Goal 17). Garrigues also fosters learning opportunities (Goal 4), contributes to gender equality (Goal 5) and economic growth (Goal 8), drives innovation (Goal 9), ensures equal opportunities (Goal 10) and adopts sustainability practices (Goal 12). VERY LOW -7Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Commitment to sustainable development HOW DO WE CONTRIBUTE TO THE SDGs? 1 Client solutions and economic development 2 Rule of law and combatting corruption 3 Future opportunities and learning environment for lawyers 4 Labor relations and human rights 5 Digital infrastructure 6 Sustainable and healthy workplaces 7 Dialog, information and accountability 8 Collaboration and partnership model 9 Financial soundness Client solutions and economic development Rule of law and combatting corruption We provide our clients with business solutions A rigorous, responsible, principled and independent that comply with the law and with best practices, legal profession is one of the cornerstones of the rule avoiding risks that could have a legal, economic or of law. We are firmly committed to strict compliance reputational impact. with the law and ethical and responsible conduct in the provision of our services, as well as transparency Proximity to our clients and an ongoing commitment in all areas of our activity. We strive to maintain to understanding their needs have always been our good business practices at the firm and to promote hallmarks. We strive to offer value by providing a these practices among our stakeholders. We quality service, both in terms of technical advice therefore reject any reprehensible or questionable and of the standard of conduct required of our behavior, from both a legal and ethical standpoint. In professionals, fully respecting the principles and ethical particular, among other types of conduct, we reject values of the legal profession. any form of corruption, bribery or influence peddling and we defend the need to protect free and fair We will continue to invest in innovation and digital competition in the marketplace. transformation initiatives in order to streamline the business and enhance our client relationship model. Our commitment to ethical, principled and responsible We will also continue to build up our office network, conduct is duly reflected in the Garrigues Code of particularly in Latin America. Ethics, which sets out the values and principles of -8Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Commitment to sustainable development the firm, as well the standards and rules of conduct Garrigues has set itself the goal of continued applying to all members of Garrigues in their dealings advancement towards equality between men and with the firm itself, with other members of the firm and women. To mark this pledge, it has prepared a Second with third parties in general. Compliance with the Equality Plan, which enters into force in 2017 and Code of Ethics is understood to be without prejudice contains new measures aimed at greater retention of to strict observance of the applicable legislation, the talent and professional development. ethical standards and other applicable provisions of Garrigues’ Internal Regulations. We are also determined to continue to embrace diversity, strengthening our commitment to people with disabilities. Future opportunities and learning environment for lawyers Digital infrastructure We will continue to hire professionals and We seek greater efficiency and novel solutions in legal maintain our commitment to nondiscrimination, practice through technological modernization and equal opportunities, the integration of people with innovation. The firm has launched a series of digital disabilities and respect for diversity. transformation initiatives aimed at enhancing our client relations model, giving us a competitive edge and We offer our professionals all means and streamlining our business processes. opportunities to enable them to enjoy a full and fulfilling career at the firm. We have renewed our knowledge management systems by focusing on their collaborative elements; We are firmly committed to ongoing, specialized we have set up Proces@, a robotization system for collaborative training, tailored to the global reach the majority of the firm’s document management of our professionals. We also offer internships to processes; and we have implemented a Security university students from different countries, with a Master Plan to improve digital security. special focus on Latin America. We will continue with global training programs for Sustainable and healthy workplaces our professionals. We work to ensure our offices are sustainable, healthy, efficient and environmentally friendly. In Labor relations and human rights recent years, we have concentrated our efforts on creating sustainable workplaces, using more efficient We have pledged to safeguard and reinforce labor equipment, reducing energy and water consumption, and human rights, to promote health and safety using environmentally-friendly materials and recycling, at work and to provide our people with genuine as well as raising awareness among firm personnel of learning opportunities. the importance of environmental conservation. We fight all forms of discrimination. Success can The buildings currently housing our head office in only be achieved with individuals representing the Madrid and our offices in London and Mexico carry widest spectrum of diversity. Our Equality Plan has the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental been in place since 2008, reflecting the firm’s solid Design) certification, an international verification commitment to incorporating the key principles of standard developed by the US Green Building Council equality in all of its policies. to promote the development of buildings on the basis of sustainable and high efficiency criteria. The Bogotá Since implementing the Equality Plan, we have worked office has also been recognized as a sustainable meticulously, with ongoing supervision by the Equality building and our office in Mexico has obtained the Committee, to consolidate existing policies and create Socially Responsible Firm (Empresa Socialmente new measures to encourage joint responsibility between Responsable, ESR) mark. men and women and to promote and maintain the principles of equal treatment and equal opportunities. -9Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Commitment to sustainable development Dialog, information and accountability • We take part in expert groups, advisory boards and associations relating to the law. We are committed to providing information on our sustainability policies, goals and progress and to • We collaborate with associations, professional maintaining dialog with our stakeholders to continue organizations and similar bodies in the improving our performance in this area. jurisdictions in which we operate. We use a variety of channels for communication and • Under our pro bono program, we provide legal dialog: events, information sessions, websites, blogs, services to 58 not-for-profit entities. corporate social networks, alerts and commentaries on the latest legal developments, among others. • We take part in charity campaigns. Eleven years ago we began to publish an annual sustainability report in a pioneering attempt to provide Financial soundness detailed information on our commitment to all of our stakeholders. We have also broken new ground in the Garrigues has a high degree of financial stability legal profession by publishing an integrated report, and uses its financial resources mainly to ensure the by using the G4 GRI standards and, from this year continuity and sustainability of the business to invest onwards, by using the 2016 GRI standards. in innovation and in the talent of its professionals, to open new offices, to maintain and create employment of the best quality, and to contribute to the societies in Collaboration and partnership model which it operates. We are committed to collaboration and to creating This financial soundness is shown in aspects such as: effective partnerships in civil society: • Positive working capital, which has been around • Fundación Garrigues contributes to social welfare 70 million in recent years. and to the development and promotion of science, education and legal culture. • Partner contributions to the financing of the firm make up approximately 50% of the balance sheet, • Centro de Estudios Garrigues offers quality with the firm relying on external financing on training in areas related to the firm’s professional very specific occasions and for very reasonable activity. amounts in line with the firm’s business volume. • With Colección Garrigues, we seek to actively • The firm has a very large and representative participate in legal debate, to help to rethink the client base in all sectors of activity and strictly institutions and concepts of traditional law and to observes fundamental ethical principles (integrity, contribute to the definition of new legal ideas. independence and professional secrecy) in our dealings with clients. • The Garrigues Chairs in Law foster the research and dissemination of legal knowledge. • The multidisciplinary nature of the firm and its international presence ensures its stability in all • The Young Lawyers Awards encourage excellence economic cycles. in the study and practice of business law. • We maintain our leading position among tax and • We contribute to the training of young lawyers legal advisory firms in the main markets in which and their incorporation into the profession we operate. through educational cooperation agreements (127 agreements in force in 2016) and the participation by our professionals as teaching staff (over 250 professionals currently teach courses). 10 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report International, independent and innovative General disclosures INTERNATIONAL, INDEPENDENT AND INNOVATIVE Santiago de Chile: Garrigues office opened in 2016 These adjectives are and have been the hallmarks of Garrigues throughout its 75-year history. We led the way in 1973 by being the first Spanish law firm to open NEW YORK offices in New York and, forty years later, we are once 1973 again breaking new ground with our strategic plan for Latin America, the focus of our international expansion. BRUSsels Remaining true to our principles, we have opted to gradually open own offices. We are a unique firm with 1985 an integrated management model and a solid team of professionals who all share the same business culture. SHANGHaI, LISBOn, CASABLANCA We believe that this is the best way to offer our clients a 2005 quality service that exceeds their expectations anywhere in the world. oporto 2006 Paving the way london, warsaw Our initial international expansion took us to the US. 2007 Four decades later, the Americas have become the mainstay of our internationalization strategy, thanks to são Paulo our commitment to Latin America. Between opening the New York and Santiago de Chile offices, the first 2011 and the latest members of our international network, Garrigues boasts a long tradition as a pioneering bogotá firm that has led the way in emerging markets 2013 and positioned itself in the major financial centers worldwide. In addition to a strong presence in Spain, lima, mexico city the firm has own offices in a further 12 countries 2014 across four continents. beijing 2015 santiago de chile 2016 * Year office opened 11 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report International, independent and innovative LATIN AMERICA: In the coming years, we will continue the journey a growing reality begun 3 years ago, working to strengthen our position in countries where we already have own offices. In the last year, our expansion into the region has To do so, we will study new growth opportunities continued with the opening of a new office in Santiago (hiring teams or specific lawyers), provided they de Chile, following the integration in 2016 of Chilean are in keeping with the firm’s culture and strategy firm Avendaño Merino, one of the most innovative and and consolidate our presence in the region. At the respected firms in the country. Eminent Latin American same time, we will look at expanding into other Latin professionals have joined the professional teams at all American countries: Argentina is already in our sights of our offices in the region, enabling us to continue but we are also looking at other markets. growing and expanding the services we offer. Since opening the Bogotá office, the starting point of our All our steps in Latin America have a common goal in new strategy in Latin America, the firm has built a mind: to be the leading firm while remaining true to team in the region of more than one hundred and forty our identity. professionals, spanning five countries. Evolution of the Latin American practice Headcount of Garrigues’ Latin American expansiOn consolidaTION team (number of people) TEAM 2014 58 2015 89 Revenues 2016 141 Garrigues’ international expansion is reflected in the year’s results. In the foreign markets in which we are present, overall revenues grew 19.8%. Last year, PARTNERS Garrigues posted international revenues of €41.3 million, 2014 11 almost half of which came from Latin America (€18.6 2015 16 million), where the firm has seen revenues soar 81.4%. 2016 29 Clients Recognition: The number of clients from Latin America has risen 23.1%. Next steps expansiOn consolidaTIOn LEADERSHIP 12 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report The value of reputation General disclosures THE VALUE OF REPUTATION Garrigues remains a benchmark in the legal services industry in Spain (Expansión, May 31, 2016) and has garnered recognition from the leading international publications. This year we have particularly received plaudits for our work in Latin America. Mergermarket European M&A Awards December 2016 M&A Legal Adviser of the Year: Spain The 2016 Project & Infrastructure Finance Awards September 2016 Best Infrastructure Law Firm: Andes International Tax Review 2016 September 2016 Best Newcomer in the Americas: Garrigues Colombia 1st Expansión Legal Awards for Excellence in July 2016 Business Law Practice, 2016 Best Tax Firm; Lawyer of the Year: Fernando Vives; and Deal of the Year: Coca-Cola The American Lawyer Transatlantic Legal Awards June 2016 European Law Firm of the Year: Spain Chambers Europe Awards April 2016 Client Service Award for Spain The Lawyer European Awards 2016 March 2016 Law Firm of the Year: Iberia 13 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report The value of reputation In addition to these prestigious awards from specialist legal publications, Garrigues also received recognition for its work in other areas, such as: INNOVATION Financial Times Innovative Lawyer Awards Europe October 2016 Innovation in navigating regulation: commended firm «The firm devised and drafted the Andorran personal income tax system and related management processes» Innovation in restructuring and re-organisation: commended firm «The Firm restructured Jofel Industries during insolvency proceedings combining restructuring tools meant for different scenarios and new to Spain» TECHNOLOGY The Lawyer: Business Leadership Summit & Awards September 2016 Best firm-wide use of technology Knowledge Management Managing Partners Forum Awards March 2016 Best Provision of Know-How HUMAN RESOURCES Universum Awards May 2016 Spain: Most Attractive Employers Merco Talento November 2016 Garrigues placed 29th in the general ranking and was the only law firm ranked. Corporate Reputation Merco Empresas June 2016 The only law firm on the list of the top 100 companies with the best corporate reputation in all industries (ranked 64th). Corporate Social Responsibility Socially Responsible Enterprise (ESR) mark March 2016 Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía, A. C. and Alianza por la Responsabilidad Social Empresarial en México (AliaRSE) awarded Garrigues México, S.C. the Socially Responsible Enterprise or ESR® Mark in 2016 as a result of its public and voluntary commitment to implementing socially responsible management. 14 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report The value of reputation In 2016, Garrigues’ practice areas were ranked as Band 1 or Tier 1 by the main international directories in their respective chapters on Spain: Chambers Global 2016 Chambers Europe 2016 Band 1 Band 1 • Corporate/M&A • Competition/European Law • Dispute Resolution • Corporate/M&A • Energy & Natural Resources • Corporate Compliance • Dispute Resolution • Employment Band 2 • Energy & Natural Resources • Banking & Finance • Environment • Capital Markets • Insurance • Intellectual Property • Planning • Project Finance • Private Equity • Project Finance • Public Law • Real Estate • Restructuring/Insolvency: Insolvency • Sports • Tax • TMT: Information Technology Band 2 The Legal 500 2016 • Banking & Finance • Capital Markets Tier 1 • Dispute Resolution: Corporate Crime • Banking and Finance • Intellectual Property • Capital Markets • Investment Funds • Commercial, Corporate and M&A • Restructuring/Insolvency: Restructuring • Dispute Resolution • Shipping • EU and Competition • TMT: Telecommunications • Employment • Wealth Management • Environment • Insurance • Projects and Energy IFLR1000 2017 • Public Law • Real Estate and Construction Tier 1 • Restructuring and Insolvency • Banking • Tax • Project Finance • Industry Focus: Food • Capital Markets: Equity • Industry Focus: Manufacturing • Capital Markets: Structured Finance and • Industry Focus: Retail Securitisation • M&A Tier 2 • Restructuring and Insolvency • Industry Focus: Healthcare and Life Sciences • Industry Focus: TMT Tier 2 • Intellectual Property: Trade Marks and Copyright • Capital Markets: Debt As regards specialist directories, Garrigues’ tax practice was ranked Tier 1 by World Tax 2017 (International Tax Review). 15 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Trust, credibility and client satisfaction General disclosures TRUST, CREDIBILITY AND CLIENT SATISFACTION One of the keys to our business is the trust placed in us by our clients to help them resolve their issues The information garnered from the survey by our as effectively as possible. Trust and credibility form partners (who carry out the survey) is also used to the foundation of stable client relations and must be identify those areas for improvement on which we safeguarded and nurtured every day to ensure we need to focus and which will shape the future direction remain the law firm of choice. of the firm. Greater internationalization, emphasis on the use of new technologies and better channels for This is why we conduct an annual client satisfaction communication with our clients in order to meet their survey, which gives us direct feedback on the increasing demands and new needs, are potential preferences and concerns of our clients. The survey areas for improvement. was redesigned in 2015 with a view to gaining greater insight into the parameters that shape the legal services we provide to our clients, and enabling us to Origin of clients by region and industry make comparisons with the results obtained in previous years. The location of our office network has a clear bearing on where our clients come from. We currently have an The survey is made up of twelve basic questions, extensive network of own offices outside the Iberian although some questions (two) evaluate up to ten Peninsula and have earned the trust of a great many different aspects of our activity, meaning that the international clients. In 2016, 15.5% of Garrigues’ overall results offer a broader and more in-depth clients were based outside Spain and Portugal. view from a quantitative and qualitative standpoint. The overall final grade given by clients was 8.76, The following chart shows the origin of our clients continuing the positive trend of previous years. based outside the Iberian Peninsula: When choosing Garrigues as a law firm, clients Origin by region % placed a high value (9.9 out of 10) on aspects such as trust, the talent of our professionals, ethics and the Africa 5.1 firm’s solid reputation. When it comes to assessing client expectations and measuring the quality of our Asia 5.8 services, the highest ranked aspects were rapport and dedication (9.21), the technical know-how of our Central America and Caribbean 5.8 professionals (9.18), empathy and the ability to adapt (9.01), the ability to resolve setbacks (8.90) and meet established deadlines (8.79). Europe 48.4 When asked to directly rate their degree of North America 10.2 satisfaction with Garrigues on a scale of 1 to 10, clients gave the firm an 8.93, in line with previous Oceania 0.5 years’ results, showing that we consistently offer high quality client service. South America 24.2 Total 100 16 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Trust, credibility and client satisfaction The diverse origin of our clients is first of all down Types of clients to the vocation and experience of our professionals, accustomed as they are to working on international Generally speaking, our clients hail from medium-sized projects, and, secondly, to our extensive office network. and large private sector companies. Garrigues is also a founding member of Taxand, As many as 82.9% of IBEX 35 listed companies a global network of more than 2,000 tax advisers as of December 31, 2016 have been clients of hailing from over 50 firms from five continents, who Garrigues in the course of the year, as have 60% provide tax advisory services to multinational clients. of the companies listed on the Continuous Market (further information at www.taxand.com). of the Madrid Stock Exchange on the same date. Furthermore, 23.7% of the companies making up the The following chart shows the industries our clients MAB Alternative Stock Exchange at December 31, come from: 2016 have been clients of Garrigues during the year. In Portugal, 41.2% of the PSI-20 companies on the Industry % Lisbon Stock Exchange as of December 31, 2016 were clients of the firm in 2016. Services 26.7 These figures testify to the high standard of the Construction & infrastructure 11.2 services we offer to the leading and most demanding companies in the countries in which we operate. Individuals 16.8 Industrial manufacturing 10.0 Consumption & distribution 9.0 Energy 4.2 Financial services 6.4 Tourism 2.8 TMT 2.6 Public authorities 1.3 Transport 2.1 Life sciences & healthcare 1.7 Other 5.2 Total 100 17 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Ethics and governance Management Approach ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE GOAL To offer the best advice to our clients wherever they pursue their business activities, as one of the world’s leading providers of legal and tax services. VISION In order to be a leading international provider of legal and tax advice, we need to: • offer our clients a service characterized by the highest ethical and quality standards; • have the best professionals, able to constantly innovate and adapt to change: our people constitute our main draw; • be aware of the need to make a commitment to society and contribute to sustainable development. VALUES Unshakeable values: Core ethical principles: • Commitment to client service • Integrity • Commitment to quality • Loyalty • Commitment to the firm and its members • Independence • Commitment to ethical conduct • Ongoing training • Dignity and respect • Professional secrecy 18 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Ethics and governance Garrigues has a clear, well-established identity both conduct by any member of the firm that may be internally among those who make up the firm and in its irregular or contrary to the law, ethical standards, the dealings with clients and society at large. rules of conduct or the Code of Ethics, or any other provisions of Garrigues’ internal regulations. Our hallmarks have always been our proximity to our clients and our ongoing commitment to understanding their needs and offering them added value by The Garrigues providing services of the highest quality, both in terms of technical expertise and the standard of conduct Code of Ethics required of our professionals, fully respecting the is published on principles and ethical values of the legal profession. the firm website The values that underpin our identity are a commitment to client service, a commitment to quality, a commitment to the firm and its members, and a Given the importance of the Code of Ethics to the firm, commitment to ethical conduct. Garrigues’ identity it is published on the Garrigues website and can be is further shaped by the observance of fundamental consulted by any third party. ethical principles, such as integrity, loyalty, independence, ongoing training, dignity and respect, Another core component of our internal regulations and professional secrecy. are the regulations on anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing, comprising the policies and These values and principles, and the standards and procedures established by the firm in the areas of due rules of conduct applying to the firm, are contained diligence, reporting, recordkeeping, internal control, in Garrigues’ internal regulations, comprising the risk assessment and management, client acceptance, Code of Ethics, the internal anti-money laundering and internal control bodies and fulfillment of reporting and counter terrorist financing regulations, the Corporate notification requirements, in order to comply with the Compliance Program and internal policies. anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing legislation in force. The mainstay of our internal regulations is the Garrigues Code of Ethics, which contains the With a view to ensuring proper performance of the ethical model of behavior that must inspire and resulting obligations, a more comprehensive and govern the conduct of the firm’s members at all dynamic IT tool has been launched to facilitate the times, aimed at fostering ethical and responsible management of documentation and information behavior by all of them, and Garrigues’ commitment collected in compliance with due diligence to the principles of business ethics and transparency measures. Furthermore, this year the team of in all of its dealings. Compliance with the Code professionals dedicated exclusively to compliance of Ethics is understood to be without prejudice to matters and, in particular, anti-money laundering strict observance of the applicable legislation, the and counter-terrorist financing, has been reinforced ethical standards and other applicable provisions of to support the work carried out by Garrigues’ Garrigues’ internal regulations. Information Processing and Analysis Unit and the rest of the firm’s internal control bodies. With a view to reinforcing awareness and observance of the Code of Ethics by all members of the firm, 2016 also saw the review of the Garrigues Antiour people are asked each year to confirm their Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing commitment to familiarize themselves and comply Manual and its Schedules, with a view to updating with the provisions of the Code. All new hires take a some sections, reinforcing a number of procedures specific course on the Code of Ethics via the e-learning and facilitating compliance with existing procedures. platform and are asked to confirm their commitment to Training initiatives aimed at providing information and comply with the Code. training to Garrigues professionals on their prevention obligations in this area have also been stepped up. Moreover, in order to strengthen proper and effective compliance with the Code of Ethics and the internal The review and update of our internal regulations also regulations by all of the firm’s members, the Garrigues included the firm’s Corporate Compliance Program, Ethics Channel is a private and strictly confidential which is designed to prevent and avoid conduct by internal communication channel through which all of firm members that could lead to criminal liability for the the firm’s members can report, subject to the limits firm and potential repercussions. established by the legislation in force in each country, 19 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Ethics and governance The Corporate Compliance Program is made up of In order to continue promoting and encouraging prevention management elements (based on an analysis responsible conduct by all, a number of training and assessment of criminal risks) and enforceable and educational programs aimed at firm personnel elements (such as general and specific preventative have been organized to provide information on new measures, to prevent criminal risks from arising). developments during the year as a result of the review and update of Garrigues’ internal regulations. During the year, documents containing the specific prevention measures for each practice area have been Over the next year, Garrigues will continue to work on drawn up, tailored to the special characteristics of reviewing, improving and updating the components of each field, and a dedicated IT tool has been launched the internal regulations, focusing on the implementation to facilitate the application of these measures and their of new initiatives designed to provide comprehensive proper documentation, overseen by the managers of information and training and raise awareness among the Corporate Compliance Program. all personnel. The last element of the Garrigues internal regulations are the internal policies. These notably include the Cornerstones of policy on conflicts of interest since, given the firm’s Garrigues’ compliance culture substantial client portfolio, the diversity of its practice areas and the large number of offices and countries code of ethics from which we operate, it is particularly important Corporate for us to ensure that any potential conflicts of interest that may arise (and do in fact arise with increasing Compliance Program frequency) in the firm’s professional practice are Internal regulations properly identified, prevented, managed and resolved. on Anti-Money Laundering This is a very important issue, not only from an and Counter-Terrorist ethical standpoint, but also given its impact on the Financing firm’s relationship with its clients. Accordingly, under the supervision and coordination of the Professional Internal Policies Practice Committee, Garrigues has put in place Personnel training extremely stringent internal procedures aimed at managing and resolving these cases as expediently and awareness as possible, whether the potential conflict of interest involves a new client or matter for the firm or arises A professional limited liability company, Garrigues from unforeseen circumstances in the course of an is owned by all of the firm’s practicing partners. The engagement already in progress. management, administration and representation of the Company falls to executive chairman, Fernando In addition to the policy on conflicts of interest, a Vives, following the resolution adopted by the range of other policies regulate matters affecting the Partners’ Meeting. pursuit of Garrigues’ professional activity. Some of these policies have been updated during the year with In the course of his activities, the executive chairman has a view to enhancing existing management and control the support of the senior partner, the Partners’ Meeting procedures in specific areas or spheres. and the Professional Practice Committee, in addition to other advisory committees, each with their own respective supervision, control and advisory functions. More information 20 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Human capital Social Management Approach título human capital 2016 accomplishments Championing talent The recognition, attraction and retention of talent will Progress in our commitment to diversity shape the firm’s future development. That’s why talent through the implementation of the management is a priority for Garrigues. Garrigues Optimum plan, which allows for a reduction in working hours for a period of one year following the end of maternity or paternity leave, with Human capital no reduction or decrease in pay, and programs particularly designed to foster Our professionals come from a wide range of female talent. nationalities, bringing a variety of perspectives which enrich our culture, enhance our work and make us Launch of two global training programs: stronger and wiser as a firm. Introduction to International Business Law Practice and International Training Program. We have a team of over 2,015 people working out of 32 offices across the world. Launch of Global Department Conferences for the different practice areas. Review of the variable component of the compensation system for various professional profiles. 13 4 COUNTRIES continents Redefinition of the appraisal process for the administration and support areas. New collaborations with prestigious Latin American universities. OVER Consolidation of our teams in Asia and 2,015 24 Latin America. people NATIONALITIES Preparation of a new introductory firm video and brochure aimed at university presentations. Our professionals have the opportunity to work in Creation and application of a new international destinations, both at Garrigues’ own numerical test as part of the selection offices and at reputable and prestigious foreign process and computerization of law firms with which we have a close professional selection tests. relationship. With respect to its entire workforce, Garrigues observes the applicable legislation and collective labor agreements in all regions in which it operates. 21 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Human capital Professional development 2016 headcount by professional category All of our professionals are aware of the professional career plan on joining the firm: a defined career path with high expectations for personal and professional development. 6% 2% 21% The different categories below reflect each professional’s expertise and make them recognizable TOTAL: in the market in general, and among professionals in 15% the legal and tax services industry in particular. 2,015 15% PEOPLE 24% 13% 3% 1% PARTNER • counsel• PRINCIPAL ASSOCIATE • SENIOR ASSOCIATE • ASSOCIATE • junior Partner Junior Internal promotions are based on a rigorous competency-based performance appraisal carried Counsel Trainee out each year. During the appraisal process, each individual’s performance and career prospects are Principal Other professional analyzed and discussed, personal and professional Associate services (OPS) encouragement is given, and feedback is obtained and assessed. It is an entirely merit-based system. Senior Administrative Associate and support personnel The appraisal process includes a self-appraisal to give Associate appraisees a chance to reflect on their performance beforehand. Additionally, in order to ensure greater objectivity and rigor in the analysis of information and appraisals carried out by managers of their appraisees, we have “external” appraisal teams made up of seasoned professionals whose mission is to analyze A commitment to diversity the procedures followed by practice areas other than and equal opportunities their own, evaluating the process and making any observations and comments on the appraisee results of To respond to the challenges facing the firm, we each department. need to have a broad range of talent, ideas and perspectives at our disposal. From the very outset of our professional activity, Garrigues has been committed to 12 58 nondiscrimination, equal opportunities, the integration of people with disabilities and respect for diversity. Success at internal level can only be achieved by PROMOTIONS promoTIONS to building up a broadly diverse personnel base, including TO PARTNER senior associate diversity of gender, age, ethnicity, nationality, culture, marital status and physical capacity, among others. 22 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Human capital Garrigues has had an Equality Plan in place since 2016 headcount 2008, as part of our continuing and unerring by gender commitment to our most valuable asset, our people, 47% and our conscientious efforts to retain talent and strive for excellence. Since implementing the Equality Plan, we have worked meticulously with an ongoing focus on consolidating MEN the measures set out in the Plan and creating new measures to encourage and maintain absolute equality of treatment and opportunities between men and women. Specifically, the Garrigues Optimum plan was launched this year, which enables professionals who have recently become parents and need to adapt to their child’s needs to reduce their working hours for 53% a period of one year after the end of their maternity or WOMEN paternity leave, with no reduction or decrease in pay. The firm was notably named a “Business in feminine plural” at the 6th MDE Solidarity Awards for Equality organized by Mujeres para el Diálogo y la Educación (MDE – Women for Dialogue and Education). Disability initiatives Various generations work together at Garrigues, as shown in the following table, and the relationship In addition to complying with legislation on integration between them is smooth, natural and one of respect of people with disabilities into the labor market, and mutual learning: Garrigues is also involved in various disability initiatives. The firm takes part in and promotes pro bono work, provides training and participates in Age range (%) M W Total programs to raise awareness through volunteering, grants scholarships, acquires goods and services from Baby boomers (born before 1964) 4 4 8 special employment centers, takes part in charity races and projects, and collaborates with organizations, not to mention publishing legal articles on disability by its Generation X (born between 1965 and 1979) 19 20 39 professionals. All of these initiatives are aimed at raising awareness and promoting diversity, and working on Generation Y (born between 1980 and 1984) 9 11 20 legal innovation to create the necessary environment for the social integration of people with disabilities. Millennials (born after 1985) 15 18 33 Total 47 53 100 Talent: the foundation of our excellence (M) men and (W) women. At Garrigues, attracting talent is key and this is why we work closely with universities year after year. We have pledged to create a working environment that Approximately 4,500 new graduates sent their CVs respects and embraces this broad diversity. to Garrigues in 2016. After closely assessing all applications in search of the best talent, we took on: 21 159 138 people in spain + people at international young professionals offices 23 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Human capital One of the reasons for students’ interest in the firm is With this in mind, training constitutes a basic principle their positive impression of Garrigues. of the management and organization of the firm, in which our professionals play a decisive role. The HR Department works towards achieving the firm’s goals and improving the efficiency of the organization, Universities equipping our professionals with the skills and once again abilities necessary to enable them to efficiently named Garrigues perform their work and preparing them to take on greater responsibilities and challenges in a constantly the best law changing profession. firm to work for in 2016 To facilitate these goals, Garrigues regularly organizes training, refresher and specialist courses and seminars, publishes updates on new noteworthy legislative, scientific and case law developments as they arise, and For the third year running, Garrigues has been places state-of-the-art technologies at the disposal of its voted the number one law firm to work for in Spain. professionals in the various areas in which they work. The study published in April 2016 by Universum in collaboration with PeopleMatters (specialist people In the last year, in light of the increasing globalization management consultants) ranked Garrigues as the of the legal profession, we have placed particular most attractive employer among law students. emphasis on developing specific training programs tailored to the global market, to cater to the needs of This recognition, together with the accolade from our business and of our professionals. Specifically, the Merco Talento, is due, among other considerations, following programs were launched in 2016: to our unerring commitment to young graduates, to whom we offer the chance to pursue an attractive • Introduction to International Business Law professional career, taking part in a broad program Practice: This program, aimed at young of tax and legal training and continuing education professionals from all offices, is designed to and the opportunity to grow as professionals in a provide them with comprehensive training on the dynamic environment characterized by a meticulous provision of international legal advisory services. It approach, quality, ethical integrity and an excellent also aims to foster networking among professionals working atmosphere. from different practice areas, offices and countries and enhance cultural diversity, facilitating the In order to provide detailed information on the firm sharing and pooling of knowledge and affording a to students and maintain our leading position, we global perspective of professional practice. designed a new corporate brochure and video in 2016 for university presentations. The bilingual course, taught in Spanish and English at the firm’s head office in Madrid, We have attended 93 presentations and employment combines the transfer of technical know-how with forums at universities across the world and we the conduct of a real case study encompassing continue to strengthen our ties with prestigious various legal disciplines, with the aim of ensuring universities in Latin America through collaboration that our professionals are able to deliver global agreements and the internship programs in place at and innovative solutions in any jurisdiction. our Latin American offices. The program also teaches the management skills Training required by lawyers to practice in a global context. Garrigues places the utmost importance on the ongoing training of its people, not only as an essential strategy to ensure that our professionals possess the necessary technical expertise to provide the best legal and tax advice and continue to be recognized for their excellence and client service, but also as a necessary tool for their professional development. 24 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Human capital University students With a view to fostering the continued presence of gain insight women at the highest levels, this year we launched two training programs specifically aimed at nurturing into the female talent at different stages of their professional legal profession development. through training In order to encourage proper management of the at our offices risks inherent in our profession, special emphasis was placed on educating our professionals on the Corporate Compliance Program and the specific • International Training Program: this program measures to be adopted in each department. A total provides our professionals with a unique of 1,134 professionals received this training. development opportunity, enabling them to gain experience at law firms in other Training programs are aimed at all personnel, countries and extend their academic training irrespective of gender, and are personalized at an international level. The program offers a according to the level of experience of each secondment at one of the foreign law firms with professional. which Garrigues works on a regular basis or a temporary transfer to one of our international 88% of our people took part in our training programs offices. If students prefer to study abroad, in 2016. the firm offers the possibility of studying for a Master of Laws (LL.M.) at a prestigious foreign 848 university or a Master of Laws in International Transactions at Centro de Estudios Garrigues in collaboration with Fordham University. In 2016 we also launched Global Department MEN Conferences for the different practice areas, principally aimed at providing an opportunity for professionals from different offices to share and discuss matters that directly affect each department. These Conferences, attended by a highly diverse cultural and generational mix of individuals from different 917 WOMEN professional categories and offices, facilitate and strengthen professional and personal relationships within the team and allow attendees to draw on each other’s professional experience in different areas. 25 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Human capital Main indicators of our training plan (number of Our compensation systems are reviewed on an annual people trained): basis with respect to both their fixed and variable components (more experienced professionals have a Technical training 1,315 variable component in their compensation structure). Technical courses and people trained As part of the general HR policy, we ensure absolute meetings held at different equality in compensation, ensuring no gender departments/offices discrimination in this regard. 1,422 644 On top of salary-based compensation, the firm also offers a wide range of employee welfare benefits, such Ethics and good Management as payment of 100% of an accident insurance premium professional practice skills for all personnel, 50% of the premium for optional life insurance, and 50% of the premium for optional health insurance, both for employees and their families, should 658 586 they choose to take up this offer. Languages Technology Garrigues also gives its employees in Spain the option to sign up to flexible compensation programs that 646 316 allow them to optimize their net income using certain products: luncheon vouchers, kindergarten vouchers, Knowledge Outside transport vouchers, training programs and medical management training insurance (50% of the premium for the employee and their family). Compensation system In cases of absence due to temporary incapacity, maternity or paternity leave, the firm tops up employee Garrigues rewards the accomplishments of its people social security benefits to 100% of their salary from using a compensation system linked to professional the very first day of absence, paying the necessary performance. This compensation policy is applied supplement (even where their salary is higher than the consistently and uniformly to all Garrigues personnel maximum social security contribution base). and is based on: • Fixed compensation: in the form of salary bands linked to the various internal organization levels Other employee benefits and to professional category. The HR Department continuously seeks to reach new • Variable compensation: generally speaking, agreements with companies offering services that calculated on the basis of Garrigues’ overall can be used by firm personnel during their free time results and in conjunction with the results and vacation periods (hotel chains, airlines, etc.). of the different regions. Garrigues has also A growing range of agreements are in place with sought to bring the variable compensation of companies that offer their products and services to firm its professionals more into line with profitable employees at special and discounted rates (e.g. cars, management objectives. gyms, leisure activities, language courses, etc.) which, apart from the economic benefits, make it easier for Our compensation schemes are periodically reviewed employees to locate certain products or services, for each level of experience, taking into consideration with the consequent time savings. These benefits are the different national markets and practices in which we offered to employees via the e-Bazar platform on the provide professional services. firm’s intranet. We currently have over 130 special agreements with more beneficial terms for Garrigues As a result of this review, the compensation structure employees and their families. was modified in 2016 for a large number of the professionals providing legal and tax advice in Spain. We also have a virtual notice board on the intranet, on Specifically, less experienced professionals saw the which individuals can advertise items for sale or rent. maximum amount of their variable compensation in 2015 added to their fixed salary in 2016. A review of the new fixed compensation was also carried out in application of the general compensation policies, as indicated below. 26 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Human capital Workplace medicine and occupational risk prevention Garrigues’ internal policies include the Policy on Quality, Risk Prevention, the Environment and Corporate Social Responsibility, which ensures compliance with occupational risk prevention and health & safety legislation in all countries in which the firm operates. To this end, Garrigues has had its own joint Workplace Medicine and Occupational Risk Prevention Service since 1997, staffed by a team of occupational doctors, nurses and graduate risk prevention experts. The aim of the Service is to achieve the best quality of life for Garrigues employees and partners through the integral management of their health. It also promotes a culture of prevention, both among Garrigues employees and at subcontractors. With this in mind, the different components of the Service coordinate and collaborate with other departments related to occupational risk FUTURE GOALS prevention at the firm and at suppliers. To disseminate the second Garrigues Firm personnel received occupational risk prevention Equality Plan. training in 2016 via the online training platform. Further occupational risk prevention training was To strengthen Garrigues’ commitment to provided for certain positions which, due to their people with disabilities. special characteristics, require more specific and detailed training and information. To replace the Fórmat-e e-learning platform with a more innovative model. The Workplace Medicine and Occupational Risk Prevention service advises all our professionals To consolidate the training programs on issues in this area, playing an important role implemented in 2016. in campaigns to raise awareness of primary and secondary prevention of the most important illnesses. To launch an upward feedback pilot program. It has also broken new ground in the practice of predictive medicine by applying findings from the To complete the redefinition of the study of DNA variables that condition responses appraisal process in the administration to certain drugs to patients with tumors and and support areas. cardiovascular problems. The service also does an important job in providing health monitoring and onTo raise awareness among firm personnel site medical services. of the content of the e-Bazar platform and virtual notice board on the intranet. No occupational diseases were recorded at the firm in 2016. However, the rise in accidents on the way to To implement an online program to make and from work in 2015 led to an increased number it faster and easier for employees to of sick days in 2016, since the recovery periods for manage kindergarten vouchers. some of these accidents extended well into 2016. To complete the computerization of A study into how sleep disturbance affects the accident selection tests. rate was carried out in 2016 and the results are currently being analyzed. To update the content of the “Join Us” section of the corporate website. The firm plans to set up a Runners Club in 2017. The Medical Service is currently drawing up a procedure to confirm that employees are medically fit to join and to ensure that this activity is beneficial to their health and does not lead to medical problems. 27 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Intellectual capital and innovation título INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL AND INNOVATION 2016 ACCOMPLISHMENTS An ongoing, horizontal approach to innovation Implementation of a semiautomatic Innovation continues to be one of the major challenges system to glean “key” documents for the of the future and should be a constant in all activities knowledge management system. pursued by the firm rather than the implementation of isolated initiatives. Innovation forms part of and Launch of an automatic anonymization permeates everything we do, with new elements that procedure for the firm’s electronic documents. make each year different, new and more promising. We consider that there is always room for improvement. Completion of a document assembly pilot. Our horizontal approach to innovation at Garrigues was Establishment of a specific dissemination demonstrated over the year in three main directions: system for online resources (InFórmate). • Improvement and modernization of our Cataloguing and incorporation of the relationship with clients and the services we offer audiovisual archive of courses for the to them. Virtual Library. • Opening up of new alternatives for the internal Implementation of a tool for the management of the firm, through the automation semiautomatic review of legal texts. and robotization of work processes. Continued rollout of IP telephony at • Search for new solutions in legal practice to planned offices. resolve complex problems. Completion of desktop empowerment After consolidating the use of the Collaborate milestones set for the year. platform and DMS+, significant progress was made in 2016 as regards communications between the firm Implementation of the Security Master Plan. and its clients and the public in general through the different digital channels. More than 100 newsletters Performance of a security audit. were published and 161 legal alerts sent (one every two days), with new designs and layouts using the Update of audiovisual equipment at the latest systems to make them more user friendly for the Madrid office with improved functionalities thousands of clients that use them each year. (touchscreens and wireless projection). At the end of 2016 we had 12,700 followers on Continuation of digital transformation initiatives. Twitter, three times as many as two years ago. Our followers on LinkedIn, the quintessential professional network, number almost 25,000, while we have around 4,300 followers on the newer social network Facebook. These figures are borne out of natural and organic growth, based on the selection and management of the best content, rather than a simple desire to generate traffic for traffic’s sake. 28 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Intellectual capital and innovation These platforms enable us to multiply the reach of Innovation and improvements to client communication our messages and can be utilized by all Garrigues channels and services enable us to make the most professionals, at any office and in any country. In effective alternatives available to our professionals in parallel, the constant increase in subscribers and the order to resolve the legal issues they face on a daily interest shown in the matters addressed (76 posts in basis. The practice areas, industry groups and offices 2016) generated more than 104,991 visits to the blog. of Garrigues are the drivers of the innovation on which Garrigues’ intellectual capital is founded. The new and improved hosting infrastructure for the website allows for better website performance, faster In addition to helping companies to instill a culture browsing and a greatly enhanced user experience. of compliance, in 2016 we once again received international recognition at the Financial Times As regards internal technological innovation, the Innovative Lawyer Awards Europe (October 2016) launch of Proces@, a new automated document for our innovative work in the areas of international management system, was an unparalleled step in the taxation and business restructuring. Spanish legal services industry, which will now be supplemented with the application, where useful, of other cutting-edge worldwide platforms. Knowledge Management Big data The Knowledge Management Department took charge of actively incorporating the contents of a well-known Spanish legal platform into DMS+. The DMS+ tool has been developed in-house to provide lawyers with access to internal and external information that is pertinent to their work. The Knowledge Management Department has configured the search criteria sent to the supplier’s database in order to obtain suggestions of case law, administrative rulings and expert commentary associated with the type of transaction being performed by the lawyer for the client. During the year and in conjunction with the Technology Department we have implemented a piece of software (Anonymizer) that automatically deletes and replaces the data of individuals or legal entities, as well as other specific data, from private documents shared in DMS+ by lawyers and which can be searched for using the corporate search engine DMS+ Search, thereby allowing documents to be shared while preserving the confidentiality of the data they contain. The anonymizer acts on documents written in Spanish, English, Portuguese and Catalan. It also fosters internal collaboration, by encouraging lawyers to add relevant documents and precedents to the knowledge management system while at the same time complying with the privacy and secrecy obligations inherent in the legal profession. 29 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Intellectual capital and innovation Digital transformation Garrigues reached agreements in 2015 and 2016 with the main Spanish platforms of electronic legal texts, providing access to electronic journals and ebooks from the main legal publishers. Books are available 24/7 on the virtual bookshelf, avoiding trips to the library or lengthy waits to consult books on loan, thereby saving time and inconvenience. In turn, it also makes it faster and easier to locate books and journals, to offer new titles to lawyers and to provide remote access (mobility), not to mention the fact it takes up less physical space and is more environmentally friendly, since it replaces interlibrary loans sent by courier or mail. As regards the process for acquiring new titles, it facilitates the centralization of acquisitions and the coordinated selection of resources among all documentation centers. In 2016, there was a sharp increase in the number of electronic titles available on these platforms, leaping from 730 in December 2015 to 4,308 in December 2016. Internationalization The following internationalization initiatives are worthy of mention: the training plan for nonSpanish speaking offices, the creation of the Latam catalog and the addition of reference materials from the Warsaw office to the Virtual Library. One of the priorities in 2016 as part of the training plan was the design of the InFórmate e-newsletters in English. Aimed at keeping lawyers and support staff at non-Spanish speaking offices abreast of services of specific interest to their regions, these newsletters include training pills and information on databases and their functionalities, public websites, new books and journals specific to their offices, and tips and tricks on how to configure daily alerts, how to search the Garrigues Virtual Library, etc. The Latam Catalog was also added to the Virtual Library in 2016, comprising more than 2,000 titles among books, journals and academic articles from the Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Peru offices. In addition, the personnel responsible for their respective library collections received training on how to catalog new acquisitions. The Documentation Center also added the reference materials of the Warsaw office to the Virtual Library, numbering a total of 874 titles between books and journals. The Garrigues Virtual Library now provides our professionals with tools and information on how to use the reference materials and resources of the firm’s 27 offices worldwide, from a single platform. Productivity Software was launched during the year at Garrigues to help lawyers with the final review of contracts, agreements and other documents, leading to time savings for lawyers and greater quality of written materials. A document assembly pilot was run in 2016 to allow specimen contracts and documents to be drawn up, thereby speeding up the document creation process and helping improve document quality. We are also working on Garrigues Collaborate with a view to enhancing some aspects of professional practice (such as, for example, the coordination and management of due diligence processes), establishing collaborative dynamics between lawyers and clients. 30 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Intellectual capital and innovation Information technologies Department remit During the year, Garrigues remained strongly • To manage the firm’s technology initiatives. committed to technology as a means of setting ourselves apart and creating added value for our • To serve as a link between the firm and other clients and professionals. external IT providers. The Technology Department provides services to users • To supervise the technology budget. from all offices. The team works independently but in close conjunction with other internal departments, such • To research and develop new technologies that as the Knowledge Management, Human Resources, may be of use to firm professionals. Intangibles and General Services (SGLEI) Departments, with which it develops joint projects. The Technology • To horizontally manage all of the firm’s hardware Department provides technical support for all IT-related and software. tools and initiatives. • To implement new tools in the least aggressive way possible, facilitating the integration of technology into the processes inherent in our work. • To ensure the correct functioning of all systems. Artificial intelligence and process automation: Proces@ The main innovation prepared during the second half of 2016 was the establishment of a system to automate the majority of the firm’s document management processes, known as Proces@. Under an agreement signed between the firm and Instituto de Ingeniería del Conocimiento (IIC) attached to Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (UAM), a new platform has been created to enable the legal documentation received each day to be managed and analyzed more quickly and reliably. This is the first system of its kind to be implemented in Spain in Spanish, since all initiatives implemented to date by major international law firms were mainly in English. This initiative forms part of Garrigues’ ongoing innovation in the areas of technology and knowledge management, and sits side by side with other pilot programs, such as the study of a contract analysis tool to automate manual reviews or the inclusion of Portuguese judgments and legal commentary in DMS+. Unified communications In 2016, we continued to roll out IP technology and Jabber at the planned offices: A Coruña, Alicante, Barcelona, Bilbao, Murcia, Oviedo, San Sebastián, Seville, Tenerife, Valencia, Vigo, Santiago de Chile, Bogotá, London, Lisbon, Oporto and Shanghai. Jabber is a tool that enables us to use our telephone extension directly through our PC so that we can communicate with Garrigues users using audio, video, desktop-sharing and presence technology. 31 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Intellectual capital and innovation Launch of a new e-learning tool with gamification elements We are in the process of launching a new e-learning platform which not only incorporates gamification elements but also new and more powerful spaces for sharing documents via streaming. This project is being jointly developed by the HR and Knowledge Management Departments. Desktop empowerment Initiatives have been run to improve workstations, providing dual screens, headphones and the option of lighter, more portable laptops, in conjunction with the enhanced productivity tools implemented last year. Cybersecurity A Security Master Plan has been put in place to improve the level of digital security. A biennial security audit has also been completed. A cybersecurity information campaign was run to raise awareness of the importance of this issue among firm personnel. Update of audiovisual equipment at the Madrid office The audiovisual equipment of all meeting rooms at the Madrid office was updated, installing larger and more functional screens: wireless projection capability, touch screen, multimedia, high definition, etc. 32 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Intellectual capital and innovation Recognition In the area of information technologies, Garrigues won the 2016 award for Best Firm-Wide Use Garrigues was singled out once again in the Most of Technology awarded by UK publication The Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) study, being Lawyer. The panel commended the big data shortlisted as a finalist in the 2016 Global MAKE strategy implemented by the firm in order to develop Study and the 2016 European MAKE Study. The firm’s applications which enhance our lawyers’ productivity Virtual Knowledge Classroom initiative was one of the and improve security when working with document 10 finalists of the 2016 KM Reality Awards run by US filing systems. journal KM World. Future goals Artificial intelligence and process Cybersecurity: automation:  To draw up an action plan from the  To select and implement a document Security Master Plan, as well as assembly tool. recommended steps in light of the security audit carried out.  To install a robot to automate certain tasks in the criminal law, litigation, and  To implement dual layer labor and employment departments. firewall protection.  To expedite due diligence processes.  To implement endpoint protection systems on individual users’ devices to  To study, using concept tests, a better protect our existing infrastructure. contract analysis tool that automates manual revisions. Enhanced user experience:  To add Portuguese judgments and legal  To conduct a global satisfaction survey. commentary to DMS+.  To implement a new and simplified system for remote access. Unified communications:  To migrate to new operating system  To complete the rollout of IP telephony at Windows 10 with Office 2016. all of Garrigues’ offices. To continue with digital  To replace current audio-conferencing transformation initiatives. systems with a single system for all offices with improved functionality: WebEx. WebEx is a tool that will enable us to communicate with clients and suppliers via audio, video and desktop sharing. 33 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Social Management Approach título SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 2016 accomplishments Provision of pro bono tax and legal Consolidation of the Executive Program services to 58 entities. in Sports Management, with the intake rising from 14 students in the inaugural 106 Garrigues lawyers took part in the year (2015/2016) to 16 students in the pro bono program in its various forms. 2016/2017 academic year. 30 new projects commenced over the Establishment, in the 2016/2017 course of 2016. academic year, of a new private Master of Laws in International Transactions, Dissemination of corporate outreach with a blended format and a total of 16 projects and initiatives by Garrigues students in the first intake. personnel in the “Social Corner/Rincón Social” section of the intranet. Implementation in 2016 of a new program aimed at professionals: the Further consolidation of the Master’s Executive Program in Fashion Law, with a Degree for Access to the Legal total of 21 students. Profession, with the intake rising from 79 students (2014/2015 academic year) Holding of the 16th Young Lawyers Awards. to 120 students (2015/2016 academic year) to 139 students (2016/2017 Participation in the Code for Foreign academic year). Investments in Spain, published by the Official State Gazette (BOE). Teaching of new editions of existing international programs (International Business Law, with students from Universidad de Cali, and the “Training the Global Lawyer” program with students from Instituto Tecnológico de Monterrey) and brand new programs (Legal Aspects of Sports Management, with students from Instituto Tecnológico de Monterrey) Garrigues is committed to serving the general the resources to access high quality legal services, interests of society through applied legal research, and the quality training programs offered by Centro internship programs and awards, community de Estudios Garrigues in areas related to the firm’s outreach initiatives, the provision of pro bono tax professional activity. Garrigues also puts stock in its and legal advice to charitable, welfare, cultural relationships with stakeholders. and educational organizations that do not have 34 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Pro bono program Legal clinics Garrigues has always demonstrated a firm commitment In collaboration with various legal clinics, this year to social responsibility and, within this area, the we continued to assist Universidad Pontificia Comillas provision of pro bono services takes on particular and IE University by supervising and mentoring importance. The firm has a pro bono program in students who combine their specific training with social place which covers the main characteristics of the commitment and provide legal assistance to not-forpro bono legal and tax advisory services provided profit entities that request their help. by the firm free of charge to not-for-profit entities for charitable, welfare, cultural and educational purposes and activities. Fundación Garrigues: Corporate outreach The pro bono program was set up in 2012 in order to Our corporate outreach initiatives are fully aligned formalize the pro bono activity that the firm had been with the strategic objectives of the firm and are carried performing for years and to provide all professionals out through Fundación Garrigues and the Human with the tools to carry out this initiative. According to Resources Department. The foundation, set up and the results of the latest in-house CSR survey, almost funded entirely by the firm, was set up on April 1, all firm personnel consider it appropriate to offer pro 1997 and plays a pivotal role in the implementation bono services. of the firm’s corporate social responsibility policy. General coordination of the pro bono program Corporate outreach initiatives at the firm take the form lies with the Pro Bono Committee, made up of of awards and scholarships, volunteering, charity professionals from various offices and departments. campaigns, events and programs, as detailed below. The committee’s duties include approving new projects and seeking to ensure compliance with the mechanisms in place to guarantee the quality of the services provided. The Young Lawyers Awards Over the year, we have provided pro bono legal In order to foster excellence in knowledge and the advice to 58 not-for-profit entities (a 15% increase practice of business law, Fundación Garrigues, on the number of beneficiaries in 2015) on together with publishing house Thomson Reuters subjects as diverse as: the formation of companies, Aranzadi and Centro de Estudios Garrigues, held the bylaw amendments, contracts, recurring advice 16th edition of the Young Lawyer Awards, which were on commercial, tax and labor matters, advice on presided over by the Minister of Justice. subsidies from public entities, advice on real estate matters, and integral advice to companies supporting enterprise. In a first this year, we have also advised Scholarship program local and international not-for-profit entities on the defense of human rights. 106 Garrigues lawyers As in previous years, scholarships were awarded, participated in the pro bono program. targeted at higher education and, specifically, the field of law, for young students approaching the end of The firm was proud to receive the Continued their studies at various universities in the different cities Cooperation Award from the Spanish Federation where Garrigues has an office. of Food Banks (FESBAL), which celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2016, in recognition of the collaboration and advice provided by Garrigues as Rincón Social/Social Corner part of its pro bono program. Our internal communication channel, Rincón Social/ Social Corner, located on the intranet, shares news of the charitable exploits of colleagues with links to various charities and worthy causes, proposes initiatives our people can participate in and explains the projects on which the firm collaborates. 35 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Science and Law Symposiums • Rock&Law Madrid. Punto G from the Madrid office took part in the sixth Spanish During 2016, Fundación Garrigues and Fundación edition of this charity concert. This year the para la Investigación sobre el Derecho y la Empresa proceeds went to the Lydia project of the (FIDE) organized several symposiums analyzing CRIS Cancer Foundation, an independent the role of law and jurists in today’s society, non-profit organization, fully dedicated to particularly with regard to scientific and technological cancer research and funded by private and developments. The matters addressed during the year corporate donations. or scheduled for 2017 include: assisted reproduction, drug trials involving children, nanotechnology, the • Charity runs and sporting events. Throughout application of new materials such as graphene, the year, our people took part in numerous advances in neuroscience and the study of the charity runs coordinated by organizations brain, genomics, demographic challenges and the such as the Spanish Cancer Association, application of new technologies. Fundación Adecco, Fundación Create, among others. We also participated in charity sporting events run by organizations Notable outreach initiatives such as Prodean and Cooperación Internacional ONG. • Corporate volunteering • Our Mexican office took part in the Lawyers’ • A team of eleven volunteers participated in Day run, aimed at promoting pro bono work. the Escuela de Fortalecimiento project run by The funds raised from race subscriptions were Fundación Integra, which works with groups donated to Fundación Appleseed, which at risk of social exclusion. The initiative works to facilitate access to justice to the most involves providing empowerment training vulnerable sectors of society. to disadvantaged groups who face great difficulties in accessing the job market. The • Screening of the documentary “El hombre training gives candidates the tools to improve que comenzó a correr”: the firm collaborated their chances of finding employment. on this humanitarian project to build wells in Ethiopia by screening the documentary in • Collaboration through training sessions as collaboration with Fundación Emalaikat. part of the educational programs of Progama Campus run by Fundación Carmen Pardo • Campaigns run Valcarce and Programa Empresa run by Fundación Prodis. • Operation Kilo food drive. The firm has coordinated food drive campaigns for the • Participation in the development of a Spanish Federation of Food Banks (FESBAL) training program on constitutional values since 2012. Over the years we have for immigrants, to be taught in 2017 at collected more than 15,000 kilos of food, immigrant participation and integration with Garrigues then matching the number of centers (CEPI) in Madrid. kilos donated each year, doubling the effect. • Charity events • Charity book drive. The firm once again participated in the book drive for the online • Rock&Law Lisbon. The Walkers from the charity bookstore run by the NGO AIDA Lisbon office took part in the eighth edition of (Ayuda, Intercambio y Desarrollo), with excellent this charity concert. The initiative, which has results. This year more than 700 books were been supported by Garrigues since the very donated during the drive held in April. first concert in 2009, brought together 15 Portuguese law firms in support of this year’s • Fundraising, purchase of food and recycled worthy cause: associação BIPP Inclusão products. The Mexican office has taken para a Deficiência, which works to promote part in several campaigns in support of the inclusion for people with special needs. The following institutions: Ministerios de Amor, proceeds from the concert will go towards the Alianza Anticáncer Infantil and Asociación launch of an agricultural unit of the SEMEAR Pro Personas con Parálisis Cerebral. project to help with the integration into work of 15 young people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. 36 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Ecorun environmental race, Madrid Spanish Cancer Association charity run, Palma Rock&Law Lisbon (left) and Rock&Law Madrid (center and right) Business outreach day, Vigo 37 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Garrigues and education: The following long-term programs were taught in the Centro de Estudios Garrigues 2015/2016 academic year (which began in October 2015): Centro de Estudios Garrigues (CEG), a subsidiary of First Total the law firm Garrigues, was set up in 1994 in order Program intake students to provide quality training in areas related to the firm’s professional work. Master’s Degree programs The link with Garrigues enables CEG to keep in Master’s Degree in Taxation 1994/1995 constant touch with professional practice, providing a way in which to apply the knowledge, methods and experience gained from professional practice Master’s Degree in Business Law 1996/1997 to the field of education. This is not, by any means, an exclusive relationship, however, as CEG is Master’s Degree in Human Resources 1997/1998 conceived as an open forum for participation, with the 217 involvement of professionals hailing from highly diverse Master’s Degree in Labor Law Counseling 1999/2000 backgrounds: the public authorities, the judiciary, academic circles, private enterprise, and other firms and consulting practices. Master’s Degree in Banking and Finance 2000/2001 The range of training programs on offer includes: Master’s Degree in Legal Practice 2013/2014 (Entry to the Legal Profession) • Master’s Degree Programs: requiring full-time study and aimed at recent graduates. Executive programs • Executive Programs: compatible with work and aimed at experienced professionals. Executive Master’s Degree in Human 2004/2005 Resources (and specialization modules) • In-company Training Programs: tailored to the needs of each company, and placing particular Executive Program in Labor Relations 2004/2005 emphasis on training in competencies requiring a mix of technical know-how and practical skills. Executive Master’s Degree 2007/2008 • Ad hoc programs for foreign university students, in Tax Counseling particularly from Latin America. 154 Executive Master’s Degree 2009/2010 • Other open-access courses and seminars: looking in International Taxation at new developments and matters of particular interest in the legal and business community. Executive Master’s Degree 2013/2014 in Business Law Executive Program in 2015/2016 Sports Management Total students 2015/2016 371 38 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Variations in total student numbers over the last three academic years were as follows: 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 Total students 411 389 371 The slight reduction in student numbers in the Excluding this effect, student numbers on the remaining 2015/2016 academic year was solely with respect Executive programs rose from 106 in 2014/2015 to the Executive programs (aimed at practicing to 154 students in the 2015/2016 intake, while professionals) and is due to the cancellation of the master’s degree students climbed from 203 to 217 Executive Master’s Degree in Business Law, aimed over the same period. at Garrigues professionals, which had 80 students in the 2014/2015 academic year and ceased to At October 2016, a total of 195 students were be offered in the 2015/2016 academic year. The enrolled in the 2016/2017 Master’s Degree program has been replaced by a shorter course, the programs. The definitive data for the Executive Introduction to International Business Law Practice, programs is not yet available, as the registration since the majority of new hires already hold (as a legal period runs through April 2017. requirement) a specific master’s degree for access to the legal profession. The success of our Master’s programs is borne out by various indices and figures, as shown below: % Placement 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 Program (october 2014) (october 2015) (october 2016) Master’s Degree in Taxation 88.9 97.2 97.0 Master’s Degree in Business Law 82.5 88.6 97.3 Master’s Degree in Human Resources 85.3 94.6 100 Master’s Degree in Labor Law Counseling 95.7 92.9 96.9 Master’s Degree in Banking and Finance 90.9 62.5 85.7 Master’s Degree in International Law 90.9 93.8 100 Average placement % 89.0 90.1 97.2 Includes students in employment and students in internships 1 2015/2016 Programs: Position of our st programs in the • Master’s Degree in Taxation • Master’s Degree in Business Law Practice ranking of Master’s • Master’s Degree in Labor Law Counseling Degree programs • Master’s Degree in Banking and Finance drawn up by El Mundo • Master’s Degree in Human Resources 39 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital CEG has signed collaboration agreements with Moreover, in conjunction with Fundación Garrigues most of the leading law firms and enterprises for and the publishing house Thompson Reuters Aranzadi, professional practice management, as well as CEG once again organized and publicized the agreements with foundations and other academic annual Young Lawyers Awards. In 2016 the award institutions in order to promote study and research in ceremony was held at CEG’s headquarters and the field of tax and law. attended by the Spanish Justice Minister. In this regard, it is worth noting the agreements More information the Center has executed with Fundación Universia to secure grants for students with disabilities, whereby a total of 5 students received a grant in the Garrigues publications: 2015/2016 academic year. These students had their Colección Garrigues and electronic codes fees reduced for the relevant programs by 25% in relation to the usual fees. Our commitment to impeccable legal practice and the firm’s deep-seated interest in legal training and With respect to Latin America, the Center has signed research gave rise to the Garrigues Collection, collaboration agreements with Instituto Tecnológico de launched in 1999 with the publication El gobierno Monterrey (Mexico), Universidad Austral (Argentina), de las sociedades cotizadas (Governance of Listed Universidad de los Andes (Chile), Universidad Companies). It contains works of considerable Javeriana de Cali (Colombia) and Universidad legal interest such as La sociedad cotizada (Listed San Ignacio de Loyola (Peru), and with Fundación companies), El derecho español en el siglo XX Euroamérica, Fundación Carolina and Funglode (Spanish law in the 20th Century), La licencia de (Dominican Republic). marca (Trademark Licenses) or Comentarios a la Ley Concursal (Commentary on the Insolvency Law), Since October 2009, CEG has been authorized among others. That “Garrigues spirit”, halfway to deliver training programs as a center attached between tradition and reform, remains intact and to Universidad Antonio de Nebrija, and is thus is faithfully reflected in the Collection. With the entitled to offer official master’s degree programs Collection we seek to actively participate in legal that are fully recognized within the European Higher debate, to help to rethink the institutions and concepts Education Area. of traditional law and to contribute to the definition of new legal ideas. In addition, since 2012 CEG has had the necessary administrative clearance to be able to deliver the Garrigues also collaborates with the Official State Master’s Degree in Legal Practice for access to the Gazette State Agency in selecting, ordering and legal profession, which was taught for the first time in reviewing the provisions of electronic codes. These the 2013/2014 academic year, with the following codes, a compilation of the main provisions in force in four specialties: tax law, corporate/commercial law, the Spanish legal system, are constantly updated and labor and employment law and international business are offered for free download in electronic pdf and law. In 2016, the center applied for renewal of its ePub formats to facilitate their storage and reading on accreditation in order to continue offering this master’s various electronic devices. The following codes were degree, which it obtained in January 2017. published in 2014 and 2015: Derecho Farmacéutico (Pharmaceutical Law), Derecho Concursal (Insolvency With this master’s program, CEG’s goal is to become Law), Propiedad Intelectual (Intellectual Property) and a center of choice for quality legal training. Derecho Deportivo (Sports Law). The Código de Inversiones Extranjeras en España (Code for Foreign In the 2015/2016 academic year, CEG continued Investments in Spain) was published in 2016. with its volunteer program, offering students the possibility of participating in several activities on a Saturday. Four NGOs collaborated with this program (Banco de Alimentos, Desarrollo y Asistencia, Pueblos Unidos and Accem Madrid). 40 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Garrigues Chair on the Modernization Garrigues Chair in Law and Business, of Company Law, Universidad Pontificia Universidad de Zaragoza Comillas, ICADE As part of the institutional collaboration between Garrigues and the Faculty of Law of Universidad the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Economics Pontificia Comillas created the Garrigues Chair on and Business Studies, Garrigues and Universidad the Modernization of Company Law in 2011 with de Zaragoza created the Garrigues Chair in Law the aim of promoting research into company law and and Business in 2011. This is the first Chair in examining the best ways to update Spanish corporate Spain to consider legal and business concepts to legislation in the European and global context of legal be inextricably linked, with the fundamental aim of and economic operators. encouraging research and development of the law and its connection to the business community, by The Chair aims to become a benchmark in Spain generating knowledge in the legal and economic for public and private debate and for research into areas most closely linked to business activity. company law, a major component of the Spanish legal system. In 2016, the Garrigues Chair in Law and Business Studies promoted the following initiatives aimed at The main seminars held in 2016 were as follows: fostering academic excellence: • Company law and corporate social responsibility. • Debating League. Faculty of Economics and Business Studies, Universidad de Zaragoza. February 2016. • Current issues relating to the creditor’s right to object in structural modifications and capital reductions. • 8th Economic Olympics of the Autonomous Community of Aragón. April 2016. • Current issues relating to the contribution of businesses and carve-outs under Spanish • 2nd Garrigues Award for students at Universidad company law. de Zaragoza. July 2016. • Conflicts of interest and shareholder rights. • 4th seminar entitled “Law and business: a view from the professional practice perspective”. In addition, the 6th volume of the Cuadernos de la November 2016. Cátedra collection was published in March 2016, including the following articles, among others: • International congress entitled “Limits on the freedom of contract”. September 2016. • Current CSR issues from a company law perspective and how they can be resolved. Author: • Congress entitled “Changes in civil procedure”. José María de la Cuesta Rute. October 2016. • Corporate interest, a “third way” and CSR: latest developments. Author: Juan Sánchez-Calero Guilarte. • CSR from the corporate governance perspective. Author: Jesús Alfaro Águila-Real. • Social responsibility of capital companies: legal positions and clarification of principles. Author: Javier Ibáñez Jiménez. 41 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Dissemination Garrigues actively disseminates information to clients, contacts and its target public through the publication of newsletters, alerts and commentaries on the latest legal developments. Emails are sent out to contacts in the firm’s database in a variety of formats (pdf, eMag, html, etc.) and are freely available for consultation at www.garrigues.com. Legislation alerts These contain selected information from official bulletins and the main legal sources. The different departments briefly outline the most significant legislative developments, ensuring that the information is delivered to recipients quickly. A total of 161 alerts were published in 2016. Commentaries These are specific publications in which each department carries out an in-depth analysis of recently published legislative and case law developments that, due to their impact on business and society, require a more detailed explanation. A total of 41 commentaries were published in 2016. Newsletters Garrigues offices and practices publish newsletters containing the latest legislative developments, commentaries and case law, as well as industry news. Our newsletters are sent to clients and contacts on a regular basis, enabling them to stay abreast of key industry developments. A total of 102 newsletters were published in 2016. InHouse InHouse is Garrigues’ web 2.0 internal communication channel. Members of the firm can stay informed by consulting the intranet homepage, where current news items are published daily. Over 750 news items were published in 2016 on the six different sections of the platform: News, Social Corner, Credentials, Gente G, Occupational Health and Diary. Over 1300 items of multimedia content have also been generated (including images, pdf files and videos). Moreover, each Thursday employees are sent a round-up of the week’s most important articles by email. 45 InHouse newsletters were sent out in 2016. Garrigues professionals also regularly publish articles in specialist newspapers, journals and other media, adding to Garrigues’ in-house archive of academic articles year on year. 42 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Social networks and blog In addition to the firm’s general blog, there is a good deal of activity on our other specialist blogs: Nuestra Social networks have become an essential part of the Fiscalidad, run by the Garrigues Tax Department and corporate communication strategy and reputation of the newspaper Expansion, Fiscalidad Foral (Basque an entity, enabling them to convey the messages they Country and Navarre), and the new Labor and consider most appropriate as regards their activity and Employment department blog, which was launched in to ascertain how they are viewed and establish their late 2016 and is already showing some very promising digital identity on social media. results in terms of subscriber numbers and traffic. The firm’s activity on social networks (primarily Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn) has grown tremendously in Website the three years since the firm began using them. This activity is based on the principles of objective and The website www.garrigues.com is the firm’s main transparent communication and on the dissemination communication tool, containing all corporate of legal commentary and information regarding the information on Garrigues and its professional activity activity of our professionals in their various areas of and providing a communication hub. The website’s practice. Rigor and excellence in client service take global positioning has risen over the last year and precedence over seeking an increase in traffic which it ranks among the leading legal industry websites exceeds the organic growth naturally occurring on in terms of volume of traffic. The time spent by users each network. on the website has increased, as has the number of pages visited. At the end of 2016 we had 12,700 followers on Twitter, three times as many as two years ago. Our Various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) strategies followers on LinkedIn, the quintessential professional have been implemented, with search engines network, number almost 25,000, while we have (Google, Bing) being informed to ensure that we around 4,300 followers on the newer social network remain high on their lists of search results. This area is Facebook. These platforms enable us to multiply the under constant review and offers major opportunities reach of our messages and can be used by Garrigues for improvement. professionals from any office and in any country. From a technical standpoint, the new hosting Our digital strategy on social networks is combined infrastructure for the website allows for much improved with the Garrigues blog, a space where short articles website performance, faster browsing and a greatly (posts) and the firm’s knowledge on issues of current enhanced user experience. interest can be shared. The constant increase in subscribers and the interest shown in the matters addressed (76 posts in 2016) generated more than 105,000 visits to the blog. Events The organization of events, seminars, working Garrigues frequently lends its meeting spaces and breakfasts and training workshops by each of the joins together with various foundations, institutions, firm’s practice areas or in the course of its institutional businesses and associations to organize key events. relations is ongoing throughout the year. Speakers are The firm notably hosts events held from time to time experts in their respective fields, whether from within by major international legal organizations in different the firm or from other entities and organizations, the fields, such as tax law and corporate law. aim being to address the subject matter thoroughly and in a manner which will be of use to the clients or A total of 840 events were held at Garrigues’ offices guests in attendance. last year, most of them being organized by the different practice areas and by Fundación Garrigues, although In addition to ad hoc events organized to discuss this number also includes events for which the firm lent current legislative issues in a highly practical way, out its facilities to other companies or institutions. various departments hold annual seminars to analyze legislative developments, such as the tax and legal updates for businesses, employment forums or HR directors’ forums. 43 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital Collaboration with associations The following table shows Garrigues stakeholders and the main channels of communication in place: Garrigues is a member of more than 90 domestic and international associations, professional groups and similar entities in the public and private arenas Clients (business associations, chambers of commerce, etc.) • Integrated Report In particular, during the year we formed part • Client experience and satisfaction of the Asociación Española de Contabilidad y • Direct comments / informal meetings Administración de Empresas (AECA) working • Reports by specifiers and specialized media group which drafted the document entitled “Internal • Client and ethical requirements corporate social responsibility. Definition of concepts • Meetings, committees and external working groups and reporting”, and participated in the study entitled “The power of collaboration. SERES, social Partners value 2016” (Fundación Sociedad y Empresa Responsable). We also continue to collaborate with • Integrated Report Fundación Derecho y Discapacidad, with Asociación • Client experience and satisfaction Española de Fundaciones, and with Club de • Direct comments / informal meetings Excelencia en Sostenibilidad. • Formal meetings and internal committees Dialog with stakeholders Personnel • Integrated Report Garrigues defines its stakeholders as individuals or • Client experience and satisfaction organizations in society that significantly affect, or can • Direct comments / informal meetings significantly contribute to, its activities or decisions, or that are, or can be, significantly affected by the firm’s actions and its professional practice. Regulatory Bodies and Public Authorities The stakeholders identified by Garrigues are indicated • Integrated Report in the Code of Ethics and are its clients, personnel, • Reports by specifiers and specialized media partners, alliances, entities (other firms, suppliers, the • Client and ethical requirements media and other organizations), authorities, regulatory • Press and media (including social networks) bodies and public authorities, and society. • Meetings, committees and external working groups • Legislation Garrigues has identified its stakeholders and makes a special effort to encourage and ensure constant Alliances communication with them, and to continually identify new channels of communication, while taking on • Integrated Report board their expectations and defining what courses of • Direct comments / informal meetings action to take in this connection. • Meetings, committees and external working groups To this end Garrigues periodically reviews its Entities (suppliers, the media, etc.) stakeholder groups and completes this review with an analysis of relevance and materiality in order • Integrated Report to identify key aspects. The pertinent information • Direct comments / informal meetings associated with material aspects is notified to the • Reports by specifiers and specialized media relevant stakeholders in different ways, usually through • Meetings, committees and external working groups the Integrated Report. • Formal meetings and internal committees Society • Integrated Report • Reports by specifiers and specialized media • Press and media (including social networks) • Meetings, committees and external working groups • Legislation • Formal meetings and internal committees 44 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Social and relationship capital The firm’s most important stakeholders are addressed through the most direct channels of communication Future goals (surveys, meetings, direct dialog), in addition to the indirect channels used for the majority of stakeholders To increase the number of entities (Integrated Report or CSR Report, reports by specifiers benefitting from pro bono services. and specialized or general media, requirements, external working groups, regulations, etc.). One of To increase the number of lawyers the firm’s main stakeholders groups are its employees. participating in the pro bono program. Garrigues conducts an internal CSR survey in order to identify employee expectations. To strengthen collaborations relating to the protection of human rights. In addition to the above channels, other means of communication are used with stakeholders, such as To strengthen our collaboration with training and information sessions, the website and legal clinics. blogs, and corporate social networks. The value of the latter as an institutional communication channel for the To continue to enhance the international promotion of Garrigues’ identity and corporate culture dimension of Centro de Estudios Garrigues. has been clearly established. To continue to garner recognition of the Master’s Program for Access to the Legal Profession as a benchmark master’s program in the market. To consolidate the Executive Program in Fashion & Law and the Master of Laws in International Transactions, both of which were launched in 2016. To launch a new Executive Master’s Degree in Entrepreneurship. To hold the 16th Young Lawyers Awards. To publish a new work in the Garrigues Collection entitled “A practical approach to restructuring and insolvency law”. To remain committed to our community outreach initiatives and increase the number of campaigns in which Garrigues employees take part in collaboration with various charities, with a particular focus on entities that work towards the integration of people with disabilities and respect for diversity. To continue to provide information on new corporate outreach projects and initiatives in the “Social Corner” section of the intranet. 45 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Natural capital Environmental Management Approach título NATURAL capital 2016 accomplishments Environmental sustainability is an issue close to Garrigues’ heart and is therefore something we work to improve in all aspects of our activity. Creation of the Garrigues en Verde/ GoGreen Garrigues newsletter to replace We endeavor to ensure we have an environmentally the Sustainable Garrigues newsletter. The responsible business model, ensuring compliance newsletter is sent to the entire organization with environmental legislation while at the same and is published in Spanish and English. time eliminating and mitigating all of the impacts of More visually appealing than its predecessor, our business. it offers more content and clearer information and is designed to educate users in order to The main environmental initiatives implemented by the achieve better results. firm and which form part of Garrigues’ Eco-efficiency Program are: Regularization of agreements and addenda held steady. New premises for the Bogotá office, with motion-activated LED lighting throughout, smart taps and toilets with flushometers and Sustainable AND presence sensors. Partial inclusion of LED HEALTHY workplaces technology in areas of the Bilbao, Madrid, Shanghai, Valencia and Zaragoza offices. Replacement of 5 multifunctional printers. Responsible consumption Implementation of 3,234 m² of sustainable office space (making the most of natural light, recycled materials and recyclables, Waste FSC, LED or energy-saving systems and management systems to reduce water consumption). Maintenance and inclusion of new data on the Eco-efficiency portal on the Garrigues Energy efficiency and intranet. Data on electricity and water climate change consumption broken down by office, as well as paper destruction and recycling. The portal can be used to consult any of the Environmental past newsletters sent to firm personnel. awareness Performance of energy audits at 10 offices in 7 locations which make up 85% of Garrigues’ entire energy consumption nationwide (Spain), in compliance with domestic and European legislation. 46 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Natural capital Sustainable and healthy workplaces by the European Commission, and new infrastructure and refurbishments use LED or low-energy lighting Since moving to our new headquarters in 2006, wherever possible. one of the most important decisions taken has been to standardize the infrastructure of all offices, giving Both in new construction and refurbishments, we try precedence to environmental aspects that make our to ensure restrooms have intelligent taps and dual personnel more comfortable and reduce consumption, flush toilets, whether or not they are found within both in terms of resources and costs. our own office space or in shared areas, helping to save natural resources as far as possible. This year At our new offices, and when refurbishing existing exceptionally includes our new offices in Bogotá, offices, we try to separate areas using glass wherever where we have also installed toilets with flushometers possible in order to make the most of natural light. A and presence sensors. large part of our office fronts and partitions are made entirely of glass, which greatly improves the amount of We have currently implemented our philosophy of a light that reaches interior areas. sustainable, efficient environmentally-friendly office in more than 72.5% of the total surface area occupied The interior materials used are as ecological as by our facilities worldwide. possible. This is the case of our furniture, where we favor wood from sustainably-managed forests (FSC). The buildings currently housing our head office in A very large percentage of metals, both from furniture Madrid and our offices in London and Mexico carry and chairs are recycled. All vinyl wallpaper can also the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental be recycled. Design) certification, an international verification standard developed by the US Green Building Council Almost 50% of our carpets’ components are made to promote the development of buildings on the basis from recycled materials. of sustainable and high efficiency criteria. Our Bogotá office is also recognized as a sustainable building. More and more of our office space has lighting that complies with the energy efficiency standards recommended by the Greenlight Program promoted Responsible consumption of resources and waste management Initiatives continued during the year aimed at minimizing both the consumption of natural resources and the amount of waste generated. Energy The principal type of energy we consume is electricity and all of our electricity is obtained from outside sources. The boilers for heating and sanitary hot water at some of our offices use fossil fuels. No data are available on the consumption of these fuels since almost all of these boilers are controlled by the owners of the buildings housing our offices. Notably in 2016, energy audits were carried out, in accordance with Spanish and European legislation, at 10 locations in Spain that make up 85% of our electricity consumption in Spanish, with positive results. The audits gave rise to a series of recommendations the feasibility of which will now be studied. Thanks to the combination of awareness-raising initiatives and the installation of efficient lighting systems and energy-saving computers and printers, we have been able to maintain electricity consumption at our offices at last year’s levels. 47 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Natural capital Water At Garrigues we run initiatives to raise awareness among our people of the importance of using water efficiently and saving water and we believe in the importance of installing (or having the owners of our buildings install) mechanisms which, together with the use of new technologies, help to reduce consumption. The General Services, Logistics and Infrastructure Department (SGLEI) monitors electricity and water consumption using a platform on which each offices inputs, on a monthly basis, the data contained in their invoices. This system enables us not only to obtain consumption figures on a global and itemized basis, but also to make comparisons among the various offices, observe progress or setbacks, detect anomalies, and establish corrective measures. The resulting information is housed on the SGLEI portal and can be accessed by all Garrigues personnel. The people in charge of compiling data draw up comparative charts on consumption by office. Paper We use multifunctional printers with state-of-the-art technology that helps reduce paper consumption (default double-sided, locked printing, using equipment with energy saving systems that can also send and receive faxes) and this equipment is also constantly being upgraded. In addition, the majority of the paper consumed at our offices comes from sustainably managed forests, and any used paper is destroyed and recycled by authorized managers. Thanks to these measures, total paper consumption at Garrigues offices in Spain during 2016 was 82.38 kg/person, down 10% on 2015. A table containing historic data on paper destruction and recycling by office can be consulted on the firm’s intranet.  -5.2 %  -10 % Annual paper consumption per 95.81 90.79 82.38 Garrigues employee (kg/person) 2014 2015 2016 Paper consumption is one of the key environmental aspects for Garrigues, since it is directly related to the pursuit of our professional activity. Waste management The waste generated at Garrigues is mostly domestic and non-hazardous in nature. Garrigues’ offices have specific containers for the selective collection of lightweight packaging, paper and organic material. In addition, some hazardous waste is generated, such as fluorescent light bulbs, toner cartridges, batteries and end-of-life IT equipment that cannot be donated to NGOs. This waste is stored and delivered to authorized waste managers to be transported and treated as required. 48 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Natural capital Energy efficiency and climate change Garrigues strives to keep moving towards a more sustainable world, developing projects aimed at reducing CO2 emissions. The firm actively participates in initiatives to raise awareness of energy sustainability and the fight against climate change. It also prepares an annual inventory of the GHG emissions produced directly or indirectly by our business. The main sources of indirect GHG emissions at Garrigues are from electricity consumption at our offices and business trips by our professionals. Emissions from these sources are quantified according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Environmental awareness Environmental awareness is another of the firm’s biggest commitments. We believe that the best way to raise environmental awareness is to educate our people, by explaining what can be done and why and by encouraging everyone to contribute and feel part of the project. To do this, we develop initiatives aimed at environmental training and awareness-raising, both internally, by providing information on procedures at our offices (posters detailing good practices in specific areas and sending our new quarterly Garrigues en Verde/GoGreen Garrigues newsletter to all members of the firm), and externally, by organizing training sessions and free informative sessions on the latest developments in this area, aimed at clients and firm collaborators. Future goals To implement some of the measures recommended by the energy audits carried out at our offices, in order to optimize electricity consumption. To maintain the inclusion of environmental clauses in new contracts and addenda. To promote the introduction of advanced technologies in order to reduce consumption and emissions. To replace all conventional halogen lighting with LED technology. To continue improving awareness campaigns in order to reduce electricity, water and paper consumption and to make progress in the area of proper waste management. To endeavor to include more information on the Eco-efficiency portal. 49 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Financial capital Economic Management Approach título FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2016 accomplishments Increased revenues with respect to last year. After two years of more modest results, Garrigues has This has enabled us to maintain our leading position seen brisk growth in 2016, posting revenues of €349.4 among tax and legal advisory firms in the main markets million, up a significant 3.1% on the aggregate revenues in which we operate and to consolidate our reputation as achieved in 2015 (€338.9 million). one of the leading international firms of lawyers and tax advisers. One of the main drivers of this growth has been the strategy adopted by the firm in 2013 to open own The key financial aggregates relating to Garrigues’ group offices as part of its international expansion. of companies for the last two years are as follows: KEY FINANCIAL AGGREGATES Garrigues group aggregates (thousands of euros) 2015 2016 Direct economic value generated 340,002 351,520 Income 340,002 351,520 • Revenues 338,939 349,445 • Other operating revenues 418 1,264 • Financial revenues 645 811 Economic value distributed 336,335 345,997 Operating costs 89,415 76,540 • Depreciation and amortization expense 5,931 5,949 • Variation in working capital provisions 666 115 • Outside services 82,770 70,476 • Extraordinary expenses 48 Personnel and professional expenses 222,300 246,648 Payments to capital providers 4,856 3,600 Payments to public authorities 19,459 18,904 • Tax on economic activities and other non-income taxes 738 553 • Corporate income tax 2,468 2,011 • Social security 16,253 16,340 Donations and other community investments 305 305 Income for the year 3,667 5,523 50 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Financial capital The “Payments to Public Authorities” caption includes Garrigues and its partners make other payments to payments made in connection with social security public authorities such as those made in respect of taxes, corporate income tax, tax on economic employees’ and partners’ social security contributions, activities and other taxes and levies. personal income tax withholdings, and the corporate income tax and VAT on the activities of the firms and their partners. The following table shows the figures for the above-mentioned items in Spain and Portugal, as these are the most significant. Personal income tax, VAT, social security contributions, and corporate income tax for Spain and Portugal (thousands of euros) Spain Portugal 2015 2016 2015 2016 Personal income tax of partners, professionals and employees 67,901 79,988 2,110 2,387 VAT for the companies and the partners 44,033 44,102 1,446 1,326 Social security contributions of the companies, partners, 20,751 20,839 1,056 1,104 employees and professionals Corporate income tax 828 2,740 10 99 Total 133,513 147,669 4,622 4,916 FUTURE GOALS To ensure that revenues from operations and productivity perform consistently with market and economic conditions and with the firm’s past record. 51 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Suppliers General disclosures suppliers Garrigues has a goods and services procurement • Knowledge management technologies: library model whereby each department or practice area management software, internal and client manages its own procurement, characterized by the collaboration platforms, systems for document professionalization of the function, transparency and management, document review, creation of the equal opportunities afforded to all suppliers. specimen documents, erasure of data, etc. In order to enhance the quality of our services and • IT systems and technology: Our digital improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the infrastructure encompasses a broad spectrum and firm, at Garrigues we require that all of our suppliers is supported by a large number of hardware, pursue their activities in keeping with principles software and services suppliers, all of whom similar to our own and which respect the laws and are leaders in their respective sectors. We use regulations of the country or countries in which they computers, multifunctional printers, servers, operate. Quality, excellence in service, innovation routers, switches, load balancers, cables, and flexibility are parameters taken into account in storage arrays, firewalls, antispam filters, IP our selection process. telephony and many more. We also use a wide range of software. Garrigues is firmly committed to working with suppliers who meet, or are willing to take on board, • The Intangibles Department uses digital the quality, safety and social responsibility standards marketing and communications consultants in and commitments assumed by the firm. order to ascertain the metrics and impact of all brand messaging on social channels, as well as Garrigues’ supply chain is typical of the legal for SEO management. A software company has advisory services industry and among professional been hired to maintain the website and we lease services firms, and mainly consists of suppliers of: hosting services for websites and blogs. • General logistics and infrastructure services: • Suppliers of professional ancillary and support suppliers of rental properties, works, office services for the practice areas of the firm. and printing materials, maintenance services, cleaning services, printing equipment and travel agency services. • Knowledge management: suppliers of legal, industry and economic databases, publications of all kinds (books, journals, reports, bulletins, press articles, etc.), as well as an increasing number of online information services. They include domestic and international publishing houses, information and media groups and others. 52 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Guiding principles Foundation General Management disclosures Approach GUIDING PRINCIPLES título International standards • The United Nations Global Compact This Report, for the Garrigues 2016 fiscal year Garrigues adhered to the Global Compact (January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016), in 2002. The Global Compact contains 10 has been prepared in accordance with the following principles in the areas of human rights, labor, international reporting standards: the environment and anti-corruption. • GRI Sustainability Reporting • United Nations Sustainable Standards (GRI Standards) Development Goals Garrigues has prepared its 2016 Integrated The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Report in accordance with the GRI Standards were approved by the United Nations in published on October 19, 2016. Preparing September 2015. This series of 17 goals and the Integrated Report in line with GRI Standards 169 targets aims to solve the social, economic enables us to obtain a true and fair view of the and environmental problems afflicting the material aspects of Garrigues, their impact and world and covers the period 2016-2030. For how they are managed. each of the 13 markets in which it operates, Garrigues has analyzed the risks and business The GRI Standards represent the latest opportunities deriving from the SDGs and has worldwide practices for disclosure of studied and defined its direct and indirect information on the economic, environmental contribution to the SDGs and to the rule of law. and social impacts of an organization. To do so it has used a variety of tools, such as the SDG Compass developed by the Global • The International IR Framework Reporting Initiative, the United Nations Global published by the International Compact and the World Business Council for Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Sustainability Development. This Report takes into account the guidelines and recommendations of the integrated Materiality analysis reporting framework published by the IIRC in December 2013, adapting them to In the context of this Integrated Report, “material the degree of advancement of the issue aspect” means an aspect that may substantively in question and to the activity and reality influence a stakeholder’s opinion in relation to of Garrigues. In addition to reporting to Garrigues and that may also result in a decision the stakeholders on economic, social and that could significantly affect Garrigues’ results and environmental performance, this Report objectives as a business group. identifies and describes its main assets: human capital, intellectual capital and A new materiality analysis was carried out in 2016, innovation, natural capital, social and in line with the GRI Standards. The material aspects relationship capital, and financial capital. We are listed in a separate column in the 2016 GRI have also taken into account the principles Standards index. of strategic focus and future orientation, connectivity of information, stakeholder relationships, materiality, conciseness, reliability and completeness, and consistency and comparability. 53 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Guiding principles Management approach Measurement and assessment of management approach Economic aspects have been material in preparing this Report mainly due to the expectation that the At Garrigues, we measure the performance, personnel and the partners of the firm have in relation effective management and impact of economic, to certain issues addressed by the GRI Standards social and environmental aspects using a series of (value generated and distributed, entry-level wages instruments, including: and pro bono work). This information is described in the sections of the Report dedicated to pro bono work, • Client satisfaction survey. personnel and economic aspects. • Biennial internal corporate social responsibility survey. • Consultation of corporate social responsibility With respect to aspects included under the “Antiexperts and other stakeholders. corruption” and “Anti-competitive behavior” subgroups, • Internal and external audits. their inclusion stems from the relevance that ethical • Internal assessment mechanisms and KPIs. and compliance issues have for Garrigues, and for • Project budgets and deadlines. practically all of its stakeholders. The indicators chosen • Committees specializing in different aspects, for for these aspects are the ones where the GRI Standards example: the Equality Committee, the Pro Bono describe these kinds of concerns. The chapter on Committee, the Professional Practice Committee ethics and governance at Garrigues provides detailed and the Information Processing and Analysis Unit . information on the organization and the steps taken • Annual reports and internal reporting mechanisms. by the firm in this respect, with the exception of the • Garrigues Ethics Channel. “product/service labeling” aspect, the inclusion of which is solely due to the importance of the client satisfaction survey for the firm, its personnel and its clients, a matter Frequency addressed by the GRI Standards under this aspect. It is a key issue for the firm, and our operating and The Integrated Report is published annually. This is organizational structure seeks to ensure the highest levels the third report published by Garrigues on the basis of client satisfaction. of the integrated reporting framework developed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), The environmental aspects identified as material in the and the eleventh edition of our CSR Report. The first Report reflect the expectations that exist for the firm in Report, referring to fiscal year 2006, was released this respect, although in a less intense manner than the in 2007. previous aspects. The impetus behind these expectations varies depending on the stakeholder, spanning from legal compliance and cost cutting as a part of Scope, period and limits appropriate environmental management to the sensitivity of partners, clients, society and personnel to certain The information supplied in the Integrated Report in issues (e.g., CO2 emissions, recycling, etc.). relation to material aspects includes the Garrigues companies and excludes the impact on the upstream In short, at Garrigues we expressly recognize and downstream value chain, unless expressly environmental management as an activity for which indicated otherwise in each aspect. The impacts on we are all responsible, coordinated by a specific the value chain are described (where appropriate department that carries out periodic reviews and as a result of the materiality analysis) in the relevant proposes environment-related goals depending on the section on each aspect. Unless otherwise indicated, results achieved. the information supplied relates to the Garrigues 2016 fiscal year: January 1, 2016 through December 31, Lastly, with respect to the labor aspects indicated above, 2016. their materiality mainly stems from the importance of human capital at professional services firms, especially Garrigues resolved to change its fiscal year to in the legal field. Accordingly, all aspects of the GRI coincide with the calendar year from January Standards that result in improvements for personnel 1, 2015 onwards. This Report is the second to have been material. At Garrigues we have a specific correspond to the calendar year, meaning it is department and committee to manage these aspects. not possible to include comparable information The information relating to these aspects is set out in for calendar years prior to 2015. Information from detail throughout this Report. previous years can be found on the Garrigues website. With a view to reporting on the performance of certain indicators, the aggregate data for the 2014 calendar year are presented in the case of the medical service and environmental data. The average 54 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Guiding principles activity covered in terms of headcount is included in the Garrigues has in place the means to ensure the section on natural capital. The reason why 100% of the quality and accuracy of the information included in activity is not covered in some cases is due to a lack of this Report. Processes were adapted to the change in availability of data. fiscal year in 2015. The entities referred to in this Report are: The process for preparation of the Integrated Report is coordinated by Garrigues’ CSR department, in • J & A Garrigues, S. L. P. accordance with the applicable legislation and • Garrigues Portugal, S. L. P. international benchmarks. The areas that participate • Garrigues, LLP (USA) (*) in its preparation have information systems in place • Garrigues UK, LLP that provide a solid source of content. All of the above • Garrigues Maroc SARLAU (*) is completed with the work performed by an external • Garrigues Human Capital Services, S. L. P. (*) assurance provider. • Garrigues Polska Pablo Olabarri Gortázar, Spolka Komandytowa This Report was verified in accordance with the core • Rino Asesores, S. L. P. (*) option of the GRI Standards by the independent entity • G-Advisory Consultoría Técnica, AENOR on May 30, 2017. Económica y Estratégica, S. L. P. • Centro Europeo de Estudios y Formación Empresarial Garrigues, S. L. P. (*) • Garrigues I P, S. L. P. • Garrigues I P, L. D. A. (*) • Garrigues Sports & Entertainment, S. L. P. (*) • Garrigues Consultoría de Empresa Familiar, S. L. P. • J&A Garrigues Consultores em Direito Estrangeiro/Direito Espanhol • Garrigues Colombia SAS (*) • J&A Garrigues Perú Sociedad Civil de Phases Persons in charge Responsabilidad Limitada • Garrigues México, S.C. Consultation with • Internal agents • Garrigues Consultores Tributarios Ltda. stakeholders • External agents (CSR experts) • Garrigues Chile SpA. • G-Advisory México S.C. • Human Resources • G-Advisory Chile SpA • General Services, (*) Sole-shareholder companies. Logistics and Infrastructure • Intangibles Accuracy • Knowledge Management Preparation • Technology The information in this Report is taken from data of drafts • Administration and Finance available on Garrigues’ information systems. • Professional Practice Garrigues also considers other international standards • Medical Service such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol • Centro de Estudios Garrigues WRI/WBCSD), the UNE-ISO 26000 Standard (2012), the OECD Guidelines for Multinational • Fundación Garrigues Enterprises (revised in 2011), the UN Guiding • G-advisory Principles on Business and Human Rights (2011), and the Sustainability Accounting Standards for Review and consolidation • CSR professional services (industry standard published in December 2014). • Centro de Estudios Garrigues Content and • Fundación Garrigues In addition, in drafting this Report, we took into style review • Professional Practice account the guidelines set out in Garrigues’ Style Manual (Centro de Estudios Garrigues; publisher • Human Resources Thomson Reuters Aranzadi), which tackles the most • Executive Chairman common linguistic and format-related doubts that arise Final approval • Partners’ Meeting when drafting legal documents. The Llibre d’estill juridic was also published in Catalan in 2010, with its Layout and distribution • Intangibles own specific identity and contents. 55 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standars título INDEX OF 2016 GRI STANDARDS GRI Disclosure Material Disclosure title SDG Global Page Notes Standard number issue Compact General disclosures GRI 102 102-1 Name of the organization 3-4 GRI 102 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4 GRI 102 102-3 Location of headquarters Hermosilla, 3 28001 Madrid (Spain) GRI 102 102-4 Location of operations 4, 11 12 GRI 102 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 4, 18 20 GRI 102 102-6 Markets served 2 and 10 GRI 102 102-7 Scale of the organization 3 4, 11 15 1 GRI 102 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 8 21 27 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 GRI 102 102-9 Supply chain 52 20 GRI 102 102-10 Significant changes to the organization 3, 11 12 and its supply chain GRI 102 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 18 20 GRI 102 102-12 External initiatives 34 45 GRI 102 102-13 Membership of associations 17 44 GRI 102 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 GRI 102 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 16 18 20 and norms of behavior GRI 102 102-18 Governance structure 20 GRI 102 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 17 44 GRI 102 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 8 19 GRI 102 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 17 44 GRI 102 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 17 34 45 GRI 102 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 18 20 56 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standards GRI Disclosure Material Disclosure title SDG Global Page Notes Standard number issue Compact General disclosures GRI 102 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 55 financial statements GRI 102 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 53 56 GRI 102 102-47 List of material topics 53 GRI 102 102-48 Restatements of information 53 56 GRI 102 102-49 Changes in reporting 53 56 GRI 102 102-50 Reporting period 53 56 GRI 102 102-51 Date of most recent report 53 56 GRI 102 102-52 Reporting cycle 53 56 GRI 102 102-53 Contact point for questions 6 regarding the report GRI 102 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 6, 52 54 with the GRI Standards GRI 102 102-55 GRI content index 56 64 GRI 102 102-56 External assurance 65 Management approach GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 1 17 53 56 GRI 103 103-2 The management approach and 1 17 3, 6 10, its components 53 -56 GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 1 17 53 56 GRI 201 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 50 and 51 Market presence GRI 202 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired 12 form the local community Indirect economic impacts GRI 203 203-01 Infrastructure investments and 2,5,7,9,11 50 and 51 services supported Anti-corruption GRI 205 205-01 Operations assessed for risks 16 10 All of Garrigues members are related to corruption obliged to comply with the anticorruption policies. Garrigues also subscribes to the principles of the Global Compact. GRI 205 205-02 Communication and training about 16 10 18 20, 26 anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 205 205-03 Confirmed incidents of corruption 16 10 None and actions taken 57 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standards GRI Disclosure Material Disclosure title SDG Global Page Notes Standard number issue Compact Anti-competitive behavior GRI 206 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 16 10 None anti-trust, and monopoly practices Materials GRI 301 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 8, 12 7-9 46 49 4 GRI 301 301-2 Recycled input materials used 8, 12 7-9 46 49 2 Energy GRI 302 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 7,8,12,13 7-9 46 49 3 GRI 302 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 7,8,12,13 7-9 46 49 5 Water GRI 303 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 6 7-9 46 49 2 Emissions GRI 305 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 3, 12, 13, 7-9 46 49 14, 15 GRI 305 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 3, 12, 13, 7-9 46 49 5 14, 15 GRI 305 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 3, 12, 13, 7-9 46 49 5 14, 15 Effluents and Waste GRI 306 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 7-9 46 49 2 GRI 306 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 7-9 46 49 4 Environmental Compliance GRI 307 307-1 Non-compliance with 16 7-9 None environmental laws and regulations Employment GRI 401 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 5 3-6 21 27 9, 10 GRI 401 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 8 21 27 that are not provided to temporary 3-6 or part-time employees GRI 401 401-3 Parental leave 5, 8 3-6 21 27 14 58 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standards GRI Disclosure Material Disclosure title SDG Global Page Notes Standard number issue Compact Labor/Management Relations GRI 402 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 8 3 19 operational changes Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 3, 8 3-6 27 13 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education GRI 404 404-1 Average hours of training per year 4, 5, 8 3-6 21 27 16 per employee GRI 404 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 4, 5 ,8 3-6 21 27 and transition assistance programs GRI 404 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 4, 5, 8 3-6 21 27 performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 5, 8 1-2 21 27 7 GRI 405 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 5, 8, 10 1-2 21 27 of women to men Non-discrimination GRI 406 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 5, 8, 16 1-2 None corrective actions taken Public Policy GRI 415 4151 Political contributions 0 Marketing and Labeling GRI 417 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance None concerning marketing communications Customer Privacy GRI 418 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 16 None breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 16 0 the social and economic area 59 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standards Notes: Garrigues does not generate significant emissions of nonGHG gases. The Garrigues GHG Inventory for the last (1) By industry type and type of company ownership, the three years is set out below. indicators that best reflect the firm’s size are: number of persons, number of partners and revenues. Greenhouse gas emissions inventory (Tons CO2e) (2) The water supply at all our offices comes from the municipal water supply network and is only used for office 2014 2015 2016 purposes. Accordingly, the only waste water we generate is sewage water, which is channeled via the municipal Electricity (scope 2) 2,910.95 2,805.65 2,799.70 treatment network. No accidental spillages have occurred. In 2016 water consumption at our offices was as follows: Travel (scope 3) 1,605.93 Note: GHG emissions (Scope 2) to cover 100% in 2014 and 2015 and 97% in 2016 of Garrigues’ activity (average coverage in terms of Water consumption (m / person) 3 headcount). Travel (Scope 3): these emissions have been calculated directly by our travel agency, according to the methodology established by DEFRA, 2014 2015 2016 to cover 96% (average coverage in terms of headcount). An error was detected in the calculation of emissions (scope 2) in 2015 which has now 7.24 7.11 8.17 been rectified. Note: Water consumed to cover 95% in 2014, 89% in 2015 and 86% in (6) Variation in personnel numbers by professional 2016 of Garrigues’ activity (average coverage in terms of headcount). category and region (2015 and 2016 year-end figures): Headcount by professional category (3) Electricity consumption. Category 2015 2016 Electricity consumption (MJ / m2) 2014 2015 2016 Partner 285 295 422.39 418.22 422.63 Counsel 29 32 Note: Energy consumed to cover 100% in 2014 and 2015 and 97% in Principal associate 112 121 2016 of Garrigues’ activity (average coverage in terms of headcount). Senior associate 405 407 Associate 288 267 (4) The waste generated at Garrigues is mostly domestic and non-hazardous in nature (184 tons in 2016). The Junior 277 296 hazardous waste generated at Garrigues offices in the last three years is summarized below: Trainee 28 33 Hazardous waste generated OPS 76 78 by Garrigues offices (kg) Administrative and support personnel 476 486 2014 2015 2016 Total 1,976 2,015 1,008 892 597 Note: Hazardous waste consumed to cover 33% in 2014, 34% in 2015 and Headcount by region 33% in 2016 of Garrigues’ activity (average coverage in terms of headcount). Region 2015 2016 (5) In recent years, the main efforts to reduce GHG Spain 1,714 1,696 emissions at our offices have targeted energy consumption (discussed in the “Responsible consumption of resources Portugal 107 114 and waste management” section) and business trips (encouragement of the use of videoconferencing). Rest of offices 155 205 Total 1,976 2,015 60 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standards (7) Data on headcount by professional category, gender and age at 2015 and 2016 year-end: Headcount by professional category and gender 2015 2016 Category M W Total M W Total Partner 246 39 285 251 44 295 Counsel 21 8 29 22 10 32 Principal associate 80 32 112 88 33 121 Senior associate 206 199 405 205 202 407 Associate 136 152 288 127 140 267 Junior 131 146 277 124 172 296 Trainee 19 9 28 19 14 33 OPS 23 53 76 26 52 78 Administrative and support personnel 74 402 476 77 409 486 Total 936 1,040 1,976 939 1,076 2,015 (M) men and (W) women Employees by category, gender and age 20% 40% 60% 80% Partners from 34 years Counsel from 33 years Principal associate from 33 years Senior associate from 29 years Associate from 25 years Junior from 23 years Administration and support from 18 years Note: Trainee category from 23 years of age and OPS from 18. MEN WOMEN (8) Our philosophy is to sign indefinite-term employment contracts with our professionals. At international offices, Garrigues follows standard contractual practices in line with the local legislation in force. 61 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standards (9) New hires by gender, professional category and region at 2015 and 2016 year-end: New hires 2015 2016 By professional category Men Women Total Men Women Total Partner 100% 0% 4 93% 7% 14 Counsel 0% 0% 0 67% 33% 3 Principal associate 100% 0% 3 50% 50% 4 Senior associate 64% 36% 22 67% 33% 21 Associate 59% 41% 17 33% 67% 27 Junior 49% 51% 114 38% 62% 125 Trainee 67% 33% 27 53% 47% 30 OPS 39% 61% 18 50% 50% 12 Administrative and support personnel 10% 90% 41 13% 87% 47 Total 47% 53% 246 41% 59% 283 By region Men Women Total Men Women Total Spain 84 87 171 67 108 175 Portugal 6 12 18 10 9 19 Rest of offices 26 31 57 39 50 89 Total 116 130 246 116 167 283 (10) Total employee turnover, by professional category, gender and region in 2015 and 2016: Employee turnover 2015 2016 By category Men Women Total Men Women Total Partner 5 1 6 15 0 15 Counsel 0 1 1 5 1 6 Principal associate 10 2 12 5 1 6 Senior associate 33 26 59 21 27 48 Associate 39 45 84 29 43 72 Junior 25 24 49 30 20 50 Trainee 3 1 4 2 1 3 OPS 3 8 11 3 5 8 Administrative and support personnel 2 33 35 3 34 37 Total 120 141 261 113 132 245 By region Men Women Total Men Women Total Spain 103 114 217 92 103 195 Portugal 4 12 16 11 1 12 Rest of offices 26 30 56 10 28 38 Total 133 156 289 113 132 245 62 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standards (11) Our firm has not undergone any process in its history that has resulted in job losses (collective layoff procedures, etc.). (12) Absentee rate: Absentee rate by gender (%) Year Men Women Total 2015 0.23 1.89 2.12 2016 0.17 2.31 2.48 Note: The absentee rate calculated refers only to Spain. (13) Medical service indicators. Note that there have been no fatal accidents. Medical service indicators Indicators 2014 2015 2016 Doctor appointments 5,307 5,598 5,775 Nurse appointments 3,003 2,660 2,428 Health check-ups 770 935 875 Lab tests 1,102 1,076 807 Ergonomics-related queries 127 222 225 Health-related queries and reports 172 226 229 Safety-related reports 7 23 22 Training (attendees) 672 902 548 Accidents with sick leave Total number of accidents 8 12 10 Accidents on the way 6 11 9 to/from work Workplace accidents 2 1 1 Distribution by gender Number of women 5 9 8 Number of men 3 3 2 No. of days’ sick leave 108 510 564 Note: Data refer solely to Spain. (14) In 2016, 62 employees out of a total of 72 who took maternity leave were still at the firm 12 months after coming back to work, that is, 86.11% of all women taking maternity leave. As for new fathers, 19 employees out of a total of 25 employees who took paternity leave were still at the firm 12 months after coming back to work, representing 76% of the total. 2015 2016 Women Men Women Men Staff returning after maternity/paternity leave No. % No. % No. % No. % Left within 12 months of 12 17 6 23 10 14 6 24 returning from maternity/paternity leave Left before returning from 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 maternity/paternity leave Still at the firm 12 months after 57 83 20 77 62 86 19 76 returning from maternity/paternity leave Total 69 100 26 100 72 100 25 100 Note: Data refer solely to Spain. 63 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Index of 2016 GRI Standards (15) Total headcount by type of contract, gender, region and working hours. Data refer solely to Spain. Headcount by Headcount by type of contract and gender type of contract By type of contact and gender Men Women Permanent Temporary Permanent 530 857 Total 1,388 53 Temporary 26 27 By working hours and gender Full-time 553 848 Part-time 3 36 Total 556 884 (16) Variation in average number of training hours in 2015 and 2016: Average number of training hours 2015 2016 Men Women Total Men Women Total Partner 58 62 58 58 75 60 Counsel 54 145 79 62 88 70 Principal associate 55 67 58 46 54 50 Senior associate 66 63 65 69 71 70 Associate 101 100 101 165 144 154 Junior 124 133 129 167 178 173 Trainee 94 112 100 113 133 121 OPS 56 36 42 58 32 40 Administrative and support personnel 36 41 40 30 31 31 (17) Garrigues’ employees are paid over and above the Furthermore, Garrigues has not imposed any material statutory minimum salary set for every region where the firm modifications to working conditions, including the operates and for every professional category. relocation of any of its personnel. Any changes arising in the future will be analyzed on a case-by-case basis in (18) In light of the nature and volume of the services order to avoid or mitigate any adverse consequences for obtained by Garrigues, there is not considered to be any employees, while observing the procedures established in direct risk of violation of human rights in the supply chain, the legislation of each jurisdiction. and the firm is not considered even to have a significant influence on it. To date, there have been no complaints or (20) Number of suppliers. claims in this regard. Number of suppliers (19) Garrigues respects the right of its employees to be represented by labor unions and other legitimate 2015 2016 representatives, as well as to participate with them in negotiations to reach agreements on their working Spanish suppliers 3,178 2,717 conditions. All of the individual and collective rights of our International suppliers 388 402 people are respected. Total suppliers 3,566 3,119 In this connection, there have been no contingencies Note: Data referring solely to Spain. relating to the exercise by Garrigues personnel of their right to freedom of association or to elect representatives. 64 Garrigues 2016 Integrated Report Assurance report título ASSURANCE REPORT VERIFICATION OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VMS-2017/0009 AENOR has verified the Report by the organization GARRIGUES TITLE: 2016 INTEGRATED REPORT In accordance with: GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI option applied: Essential Verification Process: To grant this Verification Document, AENOR has verified that the report complies with GRI requirements and has checked the data and information contained in the report. Issue date: 2017-05-29 AENOR INTERNACIONAL, S.A.U Avelino BRITO MARQUINA Génova, 6. 28004 Madrid. España Chief Executive Officer Tel. 91 432 60 00.www.aenor.com 65 www.garrigues.com
