/lACtComq?,[g,ltl 021271t7 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that ACF Components & Fasteners Inc. reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communications on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, W Robert Mandler Executive Vice President AActComq?,ffiltl Communication on Proqress Self-assessment . ACF Components & Fasteners lnc. supports the UN Global Compact, its initiatives and its 10 principles. John Mizutani President /CtO Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. . ACF Components & Fosteners lnc. requires its employees to observe oll laws of the United States. This is stoted in the Company hondbook. c Discrimination and harassment training has been completed, training with a no tolerance policy in effect. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Occupation. o ACF Components & Fosteners lnc. requires its employees to observe all laws of the United States. o The Company Handbook addresses employees' rights and responsibilities. . Compony Handbook updates including on open door policy process. All complaints are reviewed by Human Resources Department and Executive Monogement. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. . ACF Components & Fosteners lnc. has implemented sustainability gools as focus areas for approaching environmentol challenges. . ACF observes and supports all regulations of the government in the environmental area . Plans in effect, leon initiatives on waste and recycling ore qctive and effective, . lmplemented significont woste moterial reductions ot all locations, especially metals, paper products, and plostics. . Recycling is strongly encouraged. . No tobacco use policy implemented within premises of the company. Smokers are encouraged to quit their hobit, with support from the company medical benefit. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. o ACF Components & Fasteners lnc. hos o zero tolerance policy towards corruption, extortion and bribery. . The Humon Resources Department is responsible for investigating any potential instances. Employees ore encouraged to bring their knowledge or suspicions to the Humon Resource Department or Executive Monagement. . There have been no incidents, reviews by Executive Monagement, no legal cases, rulings, fines, etc. . Should an incident occur, the Human Resources Deportment would be the investigative group.
